ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward looking Statement This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors under Item 1A in this Form 10 K. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in supply of timber products; an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use timberlands or non strategic timberlands; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of the company and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither the company nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements. Overview 2009 OPERATING PERFORMANCE COMPARED TO 2008 The economic conditions in 2009 were the most difficult the company has ever faced. The recession that began in 2008 continued into 2009 causing severe unemployment, sharp declines in home values and an excess supply of new and existing homes on the market. All of these factors resulted in significant downward price pressure on the products we sell. Overall, our operating income decreased by $29 million, or 9%, compared to our prior years operating income of $328 million. Operating income in our Northern Resources Segment decreased by $44 million from operating income of $41 million in 2008 to an operating loss of $3 million in 2009. Operating income in our Southern Resources Segment decreased by $47 million from $128 million in 2008 to $81 million in 2009. The declines in operating income were due primarily to weak sawlog prices and lower harvest levels. Harvest levels decreased as a result of the partial deferral of sawlog harvests due to weak log prices and the contribution of approximately 454,000 acres of our Southern timberlands to a timberland venture. Our manufacturing business incurred an operating loss of $23 million in 2009 compared to an operating loss of $44 million in 2008. As a result of the weak outlook for manufactured wood products, we significantly downsized our manufacturing operations in 2009. We permanently closed two lumber mills, indefinitely suspended production at one additional lumber mill and one remanufacturing facility and reduced production at another lumber mill. Additionally, as a result of weak prices, we significantly reduced production at both our plywood and MDF facilities. In connection with the downsizing of our lumber business we recorded an impairment charge of $10 million, pension settlement expense of $5 million and severance expense of $3 million. Operating income in our Real Estate Segment increased by $33 million to $278 million. The increase was due primarily to the closing of the second phase of our three phase conservation sale that was negotiated in 2008 and the sale of approximately 60,000 acres of large non strategic properties. 22 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Additionally, our Net Income for 2009 reflects an income tax benefit of $31 million. The income tax benefit includes a tax benefit of $8 million associated with a change in tax law and a benefit of $9 million related to operating losses from our manufacturing operations. LIQUIDITY The company believes it has a strong balance sheet and does not foresee any liquidity issues. At December 31, 2009, we had cash of $299 million and $419 million available for borrowing on our line of credit. During 2009, we generated cash provided by operations of $540 million. We expect cash provided by operations in 2010 to decrease by approximately $100 million due to lower proceeds from real estate sales and no proceeds from funds held in a like kind exchange escrow account (i.e. a working capital benefit). Despite expecting to generate less cash from operations in 2010, we believe the cash we generate will be sufficient to make principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, fund planned capital expenditures and make our quarterly dividend distributions during 2010. KEY ECONOMIC FACTORS IMPACTING OUR RESOURCES AND MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS BUSINESS Our operating performance for the Resources and Manufactured Products Segments is impacted primarily by the supply and demand for logs and wood products in the United States. The short term supply of logs is impacted primarily by weather and the level of harvesting activities. The demand for logs and wood products in the United States is impacted by housing starts, repair and remodeling activities, industrial activity and the amount of imported lumber, primarily from Canada. Selected U.S. housing economic data was as follows at December 31: 2009 2008 2007 U.S. Housing Starts (in millions) 0.55 0.90 1.35 Supply of Existing Homes for Sale (in months) 7 11 10 30 year Fixed Interest Mortgage Rates (average) 5.0 % 6.0 % 6.3 % Housing starts of 554,000 for 2009 were at a record low level and were over 70% below their peak earlier in the decade. Housing starts for 2010 are expected to improve modestly. Housing starts are not expected to significantly improve until the unemployment rate decreases and there is a reduction in the supply of homes for sale. As a result of the recession in the U.S., the unemployment rate is approximately 10% and is expected to remain high during 2010. There is currently a seven months supply of new and existing homes for sale which is well above the historical average four month supply. The supply of homes for sale could increase in the future due to a potential increase in foreclosures and the end to the government stimulus programs. For example, for the past year, home sales have been supported by a tax credit for first time buyers. In addition to weak housing starts, the demand for wood products in the repair and remodeling sector also weakened during 2009. Repair and remodeling activities were down approximately 20% from their peak earlier in the decade. The decline was driven by falling home prices, low consumer confidence and increased job losses. Home values have decreased by approximately 30% from their peak earlier in the decade. The lower housing starts and reduced repair and remodeling activities have reduced lumber demand and therefore log demand. This has resulted in downward price pressure for the logs and wood products we sell. We expect the prices for our logs and wood products to remain weak until there is a significant improvement in the U.S. economy and a decline in the unemployment rate. Over the past several years, fuel prices have fluctuated significantly. Our timber and manufacturing operations are significantly impacted by changing fuel prices. During 2009, operating income in our timber business was $36 million higher compared to the prior year due to lower fuel prices. However in 2008, our operating income was negatively affected by $23 million compared to 2007 due mostly to rising fuel costs. REAL ESTATE SALES AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES We estimate that included in the companys approximately 7 million acres of timberlands at December 31, 2009, are about 1.35 million acres of higher value timberlands which are expected to be sold and or developed over the next 15 years for recreational, conservation or residential purposes. Included within the 1.35 million acres of higher value timberlands are approximately 1 million acres we expect to sell for recreational uses, approximately 200,000 acres we expect to sell for conservation and approximately 150,000 acres that are identified as having development potential. In PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 23 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 addition, the company has approximately 250,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the next five years. Some of our real estate activities, including our real estate development business, are conducted through our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. During 2009, we sold approximately 20,000 acres of small non strategic timberlands, approximately 165,000 acres for conservation purposes and approximately 50,000 acres of higher and better use / recreational properties. Additionally, during 2009, we sold approximately 60,000 acres of large non strategic properties. From time to time, we may dispose of large blocks of timberlands to maximize value. During 2010 we may adjust the type and geographic location of properties sold to respond to areas with active markets. Our sales plan for 2010 includes several large sales that have closed in the first quarter of 2010 consisting of 35,000 acres of conservation properties and 47,000 acres of non strategic properties. Additionally, sales for 2010 will include approximately 70,000 acres from the expected closing of the third phase of our Montana conservation sale. During 2009, we sold approximately 165,000 acres of conservation properties for $280 million compared to selling approximately 175,000 acres for $200 million in 2008. The primary reason for the increase in revenue from the sale of conservation properties was due to the sale of 310,000 acres in Montana for $489 million which closes in three phases. The first phase covering approximately 130,000 acres for proceeds of $150 million closed in 2008. The second phase covering approximately 110,000 acres for proceeds of $250 million closed in 2009. The third phase covering approximately 70,000 acres for proceeds of $89 million is expected to close during the fourth quarter of 2010. We expect lower proceeds from conservation sales in 2010 compared to 2009. Our average sales realization for higher and better use / recreational properties declined approximately 25% in 2009 compared to the prior year due primarily to selling more lower value recreational properties. The demand for rural real estate started to weaken in 2008 and remained weak throughout 2009 as a result of the credit crisis and recession in the U.S. Consequently, we have increased our listing of lower value properties and have deferred listing our higher value properties until the demand for rural real estate improves. In 2010, we expect to increase the number of acres of higher and better use / recreational properties we sell due primarily to our focus on listing more lower valued properties. However, we expect the demand for our higher valued properties to remain weak. Our land development business slowed dramatically in 2008 as the economy weakened causing a significant decrease in the demand for these properties. Revenue from sales of development properties was $12 million during 2009. We expect sales in 2010 to approximate the 2009 level and do not expect significant sales of development properties to occur until there is an improvement in consumer confidence and the U.S. economy. HARVEST LEVELS The volume of trees we harvest each year and the percentage of sawlogs and pulpwood (product mix) included in our annual harvest also impact our operating performance. During 2009, we harvested a total of 15.8 million tons compared to a total of 19.6 million tons during 2008. The decline in harvest levels in 2009 was due primarily to contributing 454,000 acres to a timberland venture in 2008 and the deferral of our sawlog harvest as a result of weak log prices and limited demand due to mill closures and curtailments. We expect harvest levels during 2010 to range between 15 and 16 million tons, and we expect to continue to defer a significant portion of our Northern Resources Segment sawlog harvest until prices improve. Future harvest levels may vary from historic levels due to weaker than expected markets, to take advantage of favorable prices or due to factors outside of our control, such as weather and fires. Future harvest levels may also be impacted by our sale of timberlands and the extent to which proceeds are reinvested in core timberlands. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Under different assumptions or conditions, actual results may differ from these estimates. 24 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: REVENUE RECOGNITION FOR TIMBER SALES Timber sales revenues are recognized when legal ownership and the risk of loss transfer to the purchaser and the quantity sold is determinable. We sell timber under delivered log agreements and through sales of standing timber (or stumpage) using pay as cut sales contracts or timber deed sale agreements. (1) Delivered Log Sales. Under a delivered log sale agreement, we harvest the timber and deliver it to the buyer. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered as risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer. With delivered log sales, we incur the cost of logging and hauling. (2) Pay as Cut Sales Contracts. Pay as cut sales contracts are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each type of tree over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases, an advance is received in connection with pay as cut sales contracts. In other cases, the buyer agrees to harvest only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut sales contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue is recognized when the timber is harvested, as title and risk of loss has transferred to the buyer. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut sales contract is the total volume of wood removed multiplied by the unit price for each type of tree. (3) Timber Deeds. Timber deed sales are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). Unlike a pay as cut sales contract, risk of loss and title to the trees transfer to the buyer when the contract is signed. The buyer also pays the full purchase price when the contract is signed. Under a timber deed, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue from a timber deed sale is recognized when the contract is signed. Timber deeds are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise which is an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a timber deed is not dependent upon the volume or types of trees actually harvested. The following table summarizes amounts recognized under each method from sales to external customers in the companys consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2009 2008 Revenues from: Delivered log sales $ 472 $ 654 Pay as cut sales $ 30 $ 37 Timber deed sales $ 5 $ 20 Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, approximately 11% of our timber sales in 2009 and 12% in 2008 consisted of pay as cut sales contracts or timber deed sales. Since under sales of stumpage the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs, the operating profit as a percentage of revenue is typically higher in our Southern Resources Segment. REAL ESTATE SALES As of December 31, 2009, we estimate that included in the companys approximately 7 million acres of timberlands are about 1.35 million acres of higher value timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the next fifteen years for recreational, conservation, or residential purposes. Included within the 1.35 million acres of higher value timberlands are approximately 1 million acres we expect to sell for recreational uses, approximately 200,000 acres we expect to sell for conservation and approximately 150,000 acres that are identified as having development potential. In addition, the company has approximately 250,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the next five years. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the number of properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 25 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 During 2009, the Real Estate Segment reported an operating profit percentage of approximately 57%. We estimate our Real Estate Segments annual operating profit percentage could range from 35% to 70% of revenues. The operating profit percentage depends on the nature of the interest sold and how much the market value of the property has risen over its book value. For example, the sale of conservation easements will generally have an operating profit percentage of close to 100% because historically no book basis was allocated to these types of sales. Sales of recently acquired properties will generally have relatively lower operating profit percentages while sales of properties held for a long time will tend to have relatively higher operating profit percentages. Sales of timberlands owned by Plum Creek prior to The Timber Company merger, which, for accounting purposes, were deemed acquired as of the merger date, will thus have lower operating profit percentages since these properties were recorded at appraised value as of October 2001. In general, timberlands are acquired primarily for long term use in our timber operations. In connection with timberland acquisitions, we are generally not able to identify, with any level of precision, our future real estate sales (i.e. specific properties with a higher value than for use in timber production). However, our purchase price allocation and related appraisals for these acquisitions may reflect greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future but are not yet specifically identified. Therefore, in connection with our purchase price allocation for timberland acquisitions, the greater values for real estate are allocated proportionately among all of the acres acquired. Specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. We believe that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS We evaluate our ability to recover the net investment in long lived assets when required by the accounting standards. We recognize an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets used in our business when the carrying value (net book value) of the assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to those assets over their expected useful life. Impairment losses are measured by the extent to which the carrying value of a group of assets exceeds the fair value of such assets at a given point in time. Generally, our fair value measurements used in calculating an impairment loss are categorized as Level 3 measurements (i.e. unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity) under the fair value hierarchy in the Accounting Standards Codification. Typically, we will use a discounted cash flow model or an external appraisal to estimate the fair value of the affected assets. Furthermore, we recognize an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of the assets exceeds an amount equal to their fair value less selling costs. Since 2000, we have grown substantially through acquisitions. The purchase prices of these acquisitions have been allocated to our Timber and Timberlands (including Assets Held for Sale and Real Estate Development Properties) and Property, Plant and Equipment. The allocation of the purchase price is highly subjective. Management is required to estimate the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Subsequent to the original allocation, these assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable through future operations. Our long lived assets are grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are independent cash flows. We track cash flows for our 7 million acres of timberlands by grouping them into seven geographic areas in the Northern Resources Segment and six geographic areas in the Southern Resources Segment. Additionally, we track cash flows for each of our eight manufacturing facilities. (1) Timber and Timberlands Used in Our Business. For assets used in our business, an impairment loss is recorded only when the carrying value of those assets is not recoverable through future operations. The recoverability test is based on undiscounted future cash flows over the expected life of the assets. We use one harvest cycle (which ranges between 20 and 90 years) for evaluating the recoverability of our timber and timberlands. Because of the inherently long life of timber and timberlands, we do not expect to incur an impairment loss in the future for the timber and timberlands used in our timber business. (2) Timber and Timberlands Held for Sale. An impairment loss is recognized for long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of those assets exceeds an amount equal to its fair value less selling costs. An asset is generally considered to be held for sale when we have committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition, we have initiated an active program to locate a buyer (e.g., listed with a broker), and the sale is expected to close within one year. During 2009, the above criteria were met by a number of our timberland properties, and we recognized impairment losses of $3 million for certain of these properties. Similarly, we recognized impairment losses of 26 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 $1 million in 2008 and 2007 in connection with timberlands held for sale (see Notes 4 and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We expect to continue to sell or exchange non strategic timberlands to other forest products companies or non industrial buyers, and it is probable that we will recognize additional impairment losses in the future in connection with sales of non strategic timberlands. An impairment loss is generally not recorded until management has concluded that it is probable (i.e., likely) that timberlands will be sold within the next 12 months. For many properties that are currently listed for sale, it is difficult to conclude whether they will be sold within one year and to estimate the price. Nevertheless, management performs a probability assessment for all properties that are listed for sale and records an impairment loss (to the extent the propertys book basis exceeds its estimated fair value net of selling cost) in the quarter in which management has concluded it is likely the property will be sold within twelve months. (3) Property, Plant and Equipment. The carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment represents primarily the net book value of our eight (two of which are indefinitely curtailed) manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable through future operations. The estimated future cash flows over the remaining useful life of a manufacturing facility is highly subjective and is dependent upon estimates for future product pricing, raw material costs and availability, volumes of product sold, and residual value of the facility. During the first quarter of 2009, the company conducted an analysis to rationalize and consolidate its lumber operations due to the significant and sustained decline in lumber demand along with the companys expectations for continued weakness in this business. As a result of this analysis, the company concluded that certain of its lumber manufacturing assets were impaired and recorded an impairment charge of $10 million related to these assets. During 2008, we recognized an impairment loss of $10 million in connection with our lumber manufacturing assets as a result of the significant decline in housing starts and the expectation for continued weak lumber prices. We currently estimate that the carrying value for our eight facilities is recoverable through future operations and that our estimate of future cash flows is reasonable. However, if wood product prices were to remain weak at current levels for an extended period of time, or if log or raw material availability declines, the company may be required to record an impairment loss for one or more of its manufacturing facilities in a future period. (4) Capitalized Real Estate Development Costs. Current and future costs associated with specific real estate development projects are capitalized once management has concluded it is probable that a project will be successful. Real estate development costs are expensed as incurred when management is not able to conclude that it is probable a project will be successful. Furthermore, previously capitalized costs for specific projects are written off when management revises its prior assessment and concludes that it is probable a project will not be successful and costs will not be recovered. For many of our projects, there is less judgment in making this determination due to prior experience in the local market or advice from consultants. However, for some of our larger projects where we have limited experience in the local market or for projects in environmentally sensitive areas, there is significant judgment in assessing the expected outcome for the projects. At December 31, 2009, we have $28 million of capitalized costs associated with projects that management expects will be successful. Of these capitalized costs, approximately $16 million represent costs for a single project that has been approved by a state commission but is being appealed in court by groups opposed to the project. While not expected, if the approval is reversed, some or all of these capitalized costs could be written off in the next twelve months. DEPLETION Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each region are adjusted at least annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South to as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 27 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 The following table summarizes depletion expense recognized in the companys financial statements, key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per ton amounts): 2009 2008 Depletion Expense Northern Resources Segment $ 20 $ 27 Southern Resources Segment 48 56 Total Depletion Expense $ 68 $ 83 Average Depletion Rates (per ton) Northern Resources Segment $ 4.60 $ 4.56 Southern Resources Segment $ 4.25 $ 4.10 Assumptions Used to Determine the Average Depletion Rates Estimated Future Silviculture Costs, including the Impact of Inflation Northern Resources Segment $ 62 $ 72 Southern Resources Segment A $ 485 $ 535 Estimated Future Volume (in million tons) Northern Resources Segment B 271 313 Southern Resources Segment C 392 441 Sensitivity of Results to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in Depletion Expense for a 10%: Increase in Estimated Future Silviculture Costs D Northern Resources Segment $ 0.1 $ 0.2 Southern Resources Segment $ 1.4 $ 1.6 Decrease in Estimated Future Volume E Northern Resources Segment $ 2.3 $ 3.0 Southern Resources Segment $ 5.3 $ 6.2 A Reflects a decrease in our estimates of future costs associated with fertilization treatments due to lower chemical and application costs along with assumption of fewer acres treated. B Decrease from 2008 is due primarily to divestitures in Montana and Wisconsin. C Decrease from 2008 is due primarily to the contribution of 454,000 acres of timberland to a timberland venture. D Assumes future timber volumes do not change. E Assumes future silviculture costs do not change. Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. We have invested in technology that enables us to predict our current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised at least annually, we do not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. Accounting for Share Based Compensation Plum Creek has a stockholder approved Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, value management awards and dividend equivalents. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Grants of value management awards represent awards that are classified and accounted for as liabilities. As a result, the expense recognized over the performance period will equal the fair value (i.e., cash value) of an award as of the last day of 28 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 the performance period multiplied by the number of awards that are earned. Furthermore, the quarterly expense recognized during the performance period is based on the fair value as of the end of the most recent quarter. Prior to the end of the performance period, compensation costs for value management awards is based on the awards most recent quarterly fair values and the number of months of service rendered during the performance period. Fair values for value management awards are computed based on our historical relative total shareholder return and simulated relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of peer groups consisting of forest products companies, the S&P 500 Index and the Morgan Stanley REIT Index over the same period (Peer Group). The simulated total shareholder return of the company and the Peer Group is computed using a Monte Carlo simulation. The key assumptions used in the simulation of the companys and the Peer Groups total shareholder return are volatility, beta (the measure of how Plum Creeks stock moves relative to the market as a whole), risk free interest rate, and expected dividend yield. The fair value of the liability for outstanding value management awards at December 31, 2009 was $15 million, which is based on the current fair value of outstanding awards multiplied by the percentage of months that services were provided during the performance period. The liability at December 31, 2009 could range between $11 million and $23 million based on the possible fair value of all outstanding liability based awards. We could have a material adjustment to our share based compensation liability to the extent there is a material change in the fair value of our value management awards during the quarter. Pensions Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We maintain a qualified defined benefit pension plan and two supplemental (non qualified) defined benefit pension plans. Participants benefits vest after three years of service. The cash balance benefits for salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year Treasury bond rate. Participants who were employees of the company on September 1, 2000, earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance formula or a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on the highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month out of the last 120 month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits to hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service. Plum Creeks contributions to its qualified pension plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year. It is generally the companys policy to fund the qualified pension plan annually such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plan was discontinued) over a market cycle (generally 3 to 5 years). The company has the same funding policy for the non qualified plan. However, assets related to the non qualified plans are held in a grantor trust and are subject to the claims of creditors and, therefore, are not considered plan assets. The computation of the companys benefit obligation, pension cost and accrued pension liability under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make certain assumptions involving primarily the following (weighted average rates): 2009 2008 Assumptions Used to Determine the Benefit Obligation at December 31 Discount Rates A Annuity Distributions 5.90 % 6.85 % Lump Sum Distributions 4.31 % 4.35 % Rate of Compensation Increase B 3.45 % 3.70 % Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost Discount Rate 6.85 % 6.75 % Expected Long Term Return on Plan Assets C 7.75 % 7.75 % Rate of Compensation Increase B 3.70 % 3.70 % A The December 31, 2009 discount rate for annuity distributions was determined by the resulting yield of a hypothetical bond portfolio at December 31, 2009, matched to the expected benefit payments under the plans. PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 29 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Bonds selected for this portfolio had a Moodys or Standard & Poors credit rating of AA or better as of December 31, 2009. The December 31, 2009 discount rate for lump sum distributions is based on yields on 30 year U.S. Treasury bonds. B The assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels represents our long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations. C The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns on each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio. Since pension benefits may be settled in either a single lump sum or an annuity distribution, both the estimated percentage of participants electing a lump sum payment and the assumed interest rate (discount rate) used in computing the lump sum benefit are key assumptions. Management currently estimates that approximately half of the qualified plan participants will elect a lump sum distribution upon termination. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but which are nevertheless subject to uncertainty. It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets. The following table summarizes key financial measures and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2009 2008 Key Financial Measures Pension Expense A $ 14 $ 7 Cash Pension Plan Contributions Qualified Plan 10 30 Cash Grantor Trust Funding Supplemental Plans 3 7 Current Accrued Pension Liability 3 3 Non Current Accrued Pension Liability 31 39 Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in Pension Expense for Every 0.25 Percentage Point: Decrease in Long Term Rate of Return on Plan Assets $ 0.3 $ 0.2 Decrease in Weighted Average Discount Rate 0.7 0.2 Increase in Rate of Increase in Compensation Levels 0.2 0.1 Increase in Qualified Pension Funding (actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation) for: Every 0.25 Percentage Point Decrease in the Weighted Average Discount Rate $ 3.8 $ 3.5 Every 0.25 Percentage Point Decrease in the Weighted Average Discount Rate Assumption for Lump Sum Benefits $ 1.7 $ 1.8 A Pension expense for 2009 includes a $5 million settlement loss recorded as a result of 2009 lump sum distributions for the year ended December 31, 2009. The settlement loss represents a partial recognition of the actuarial pension loss reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 7.75%, and weighted average discount rates of 5.90% for annuity distributions (and 4.31% for lump sum distributions) for 2010 and beyond, and a 3.45% rate of increase in compensation levels, we project our annual pension expense for 2010 will be approximately $9 million and will range between $9 million and $10 million each year for 2011 through 2014. Over the same time periods, the annual cash funding required under our present funding policy and current funding rules for the qualified pension plan is expected to range between $3 and $8 million in 2010, and be approximately $5 million each year for 2011 through 2014. We expect to fund between $0 and $3 million in 2010 to our supplemental (non qualified) pension plans and approximately $1 million each year for 2011 through 2014. 30 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS, CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS The company has no off balance sheet debt. Our consolidated financial statements reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. The company has an equity investment in an unconsolidated entity, discussed below. Otherwise, the company has no other relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. In November 2009, the company entered into a purchase commitment to supply natural gas to our manufacturing facilities for the period January 2010 through March 2010. The contracts, which are derivatives, were designated as normal purchases. As of December 31, 2009, the companys purchase obligation under this contract was $0.2 million. The company is not a party to any other derivative transactions. On October 1, 2008, the company contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands located in its Southern Resources Segment to a timberland venture in exchange for an equity interest. The company accounts for its interests under the equity method of accounting. See Notes 16 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 (in millions): Payment Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less Than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More Than5 Years Long Term Debt A $ 2,280 $ 131 $ 1,346 $ 314 $ 489 Note Payable to Timberland Venture B 1,303 58 116 116 1,013 Operating Lease Obligations 17 4 6 4 3 Timber Obligations 6 1 1 4 Long Term Incentive Plans 16 12 4 Purchase Obligations C 153 68 62 9 14 Other Long Term Liabilities D Total Contractual Obligations $ 3,775 $ 274 $ 1,535 $ 443 $ 1,523 A In addition to principal, long term debt includes related interest obligations based on the coupon or stated interest rate for our fixed rate debt and the variable interest rates as of December 31, 2009 of 0.73% and 1.28% for our $350 million and $250 million term credit agreements, respectively. Interest obligations are $75 million (Less than one year), $114 million (1 3 years), $61 million (3 5 years), and $24 million (More than 5 years). As we expect borrowings outstanding under our line of credit to vary, only repayment of the principal is included. In 2009, interest expense related to our line of credit was less than $1 million. B On October 1, 2008, the company borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture (a related party). The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. Interest obligations are $58 million (Less than one year), $116 million (1 3 years) $116 million (3 5 years), and $230 million (More than 5 years). C Purchase obligations are comprised primarily of $94 million for timber harvest contracts, $39 million for a fiber supply agreement to supply our manufacturing facilities, $7 million for road maintenance agreements, $6 million for third party logs for our plywood and sawmill facilities, and $3 million for raw materials for our MDF facilities. D We have not included any amounts for our other long term liabilities, as we cannot estimate when we will be obligated to satisfy these liabilities. At December 31, 2009, other long term liabilities include workers compensation of $11 million, deferred compensation obligations of $5 million, non qualified pension obligations of $29 million (including $3 million classified as a current liability), and qualified pension obligations of $5 million. We expect to fund approximately $3 million for workers compensation payments in 2010. We have two grantor trusts, which hold assets associated with our deferred compensation obligations and non qualified pension obligations. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of assets in one of our grantor trusts is approximately equal to our deferred compensation obligation of $5 million. The December 31, 2009 fair value of assets in the other grantor trust was approximately $28 million and the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation for our non qualified pension plans was $25 million. Assets in our grantor trusts have been reserved for the above obligations. However, grantor trust assets are subject to the claims of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. Additionally, based on current interest rates and expected returns, the company expects 2010 contributions to the qualified pension plan to range between $3 and $8 million and between $0 and $3 million for the supplemental (non qualified) pension plans. See Notes 10 and 12 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements. PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 31 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 EVENTS AND TRENDS AFFECTING OPERATING RESULTS Harvest Plans We determine our annual timber (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a contiguous block of trees of a similar age, species mix and silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 100,000 to over 1 million acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, certain external conditions such as supply agreements, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Harvest scheduling is the technical approach using computer modeling that considers all of the above factors along with forest growth rates and financial assumptions to project future harvest plans for a number of years forward. Our actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. Furthermore, future harvest levels will be impacted by sales of timberlands. The impact will depend on the level and extent we are able to reinvest proceeds in productive timberlands and the stocking levels and age class distribution of any newly acquired timberlands. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment were approximately 4.4 million tons (49% sawlogs and 51% pulpwood) during 2009 and about 6 million tons (56% sawlogs and 44% pulpwood) during 2008. We expect harvest levels for sawlogs in 2010 to be comparable to 2009 due primarily to continued weak log prices and limited demand. We expect harvest levels for pulpwood to decrease by approximately 20% due primarily to temporarily increasing harvest levels in 2008 and 2009 to capture favorable pulpwood prices, recent timberland sales and weaker demand. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment were 11.4 million tons (39% sawlogs and 61% pulpwood) during 2009 and 13.6 million tons (41% sawlogs and 59% pulpwood) during 2008. Total harvest levels for 2010 are expected to be similar to 2009; however, pulpwood volumes are expected to decline by approximately one million tons and sawlog volumes are expected to increase by one million tons resulting in a mix of approximately 49% sawlogs and 51% pulpwood. During the past several years, we have concentrated on thinning young stands (i.e., first thinnings) to maintain vigorous growth rates and to capture favorable pulpwood prices. The timber harvested during these first thinnings is predominately pulpwood. As a result of accelerating pulpwood harvests in prior years, our standing inventory has shifted and, therefore, in 2010 we will be focusing a greater proportion of thinnings on more mature timber stands that contain both pulpwood and small diameter sawlogs. Conservation Sale in Northern Resources Segment During 2008, we signed an agreement to sell approximately 310,000 acres of timberlands in Montana in our Northern Resources Segment for $489 million in three phases. Proceeds from the first phase were $150 million and were received in 2008. Proceeds from the second phase were $250 million and were received in 2009. Proceeds from the third phase of $89 million are expected to be received in 2010. Manufactured Products Segment Production Levels As a result of the continuing decline in demand for wood products during 2009, we permanently closed two lumber mills, indefinitely suspended production at one additional lumber mill and one remanufacturing facility and reduced production at another lumber mill. We have also reduced production at our MDF and plywood facilities in response to the decline in demand. For 2010, we expect to continue to operate all of our Manufactured Products facilities at reduced levels similar to 2009. Until markets for wood products improve, our expected production levels (and sales volumes) will be significantly lower than both the combined capacity of our facilities and historical operating rates. U.S. Canada Softwood Lumber Agreement Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. In 2006, the Softwood Lumber Agreement (SLA) was signed by the U.S. and Canada establishing a system of tiered taxes and or volume restrictions that will be in effect for a period of seven years. Generally, the SLA provides that no import restrictions would be imposed on Canadian lumber shipments to the U.S. when the published composite price for lumber is higher than $355 (per thousand board feet). Below that level, a system of tiered export tax and or volume restrictions would be triggered. The impact of the taxes could be mitigated by fluctuations in the rate of exchange between U.S. and Canadian dollars. 32 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Notwithstanding the signing of the SLA between the U.S. and Canadian governments, there can be no assurance it will effectively create a fair trade environment. Therefore, when demand for wood products in the U.S. improves, downward pressure on domestic timber and lumber prices caused by Canadian imports could increase. Comparability of Financial Statement Periods Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. There were no significant timberland acquisitions during 2009. During 2008, we acquired 147,000 acres of timberlands, located primarily in Georgia, Vermont and Oregon. During 2007, we acquired 69,000 acres of timberlands, located primarily in Oregon and Georgia. During 2009, we sold approximately 297,000 acres of timberland, during 2008 we sold approximately 314,000 acres and during 2007 we sold approximately 252,000 acres. Additionally during 2008, approximately 454,000 acres located in the Southern Resources Segment were contributed to a timberland venture in exchange for an equity interest. As a result of these timberland transactions, our ownership was approximately 7 million acres at December 31, 2009, approximately 7.4 million acres at December 31, 2008 and approximately 8 million acres at December 31, 2007. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of timberland acquisitions and divestitures. Results of Operations The following table compares Operating Income (Loss) by Segment and other items impacting our income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Operating Income (Loss) by Segment Northern Resources $ (3 ) $ 41 $ 58 Southern Resources 81 128 161 Real Estate 278 245 250 Manufactured Products (23 ) (44 ) 2 Other 17 23 17 Total Segment Operating Income 350 393 488 Other Costs and Eliminations (51 ) (64 ) (64 ) Other Operating Income (Expense), net (1 ) Operating Income 299 328 424 Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture 55 15 Interest Expense, net (Debt Obligations to Unrelated Parties) 89 134 147 Interest Expense (Note Payable to Timberland Venture) 58 14 Gain (Loss) on Extinguishment of Debt (2 ) 11 Benefit for Income Taxes (31 ) (27 ) (3 ) Income from Continuing Operations $ 236 $ 233 $ 280 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Northern Resources Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Sawlog ($/Ton Delivered) 2.137 $ 55 3.366 $ 69 Pulpwood ($/Ton Delivered) 2.268 $ 40 2.616 $ 43 Total 4.405 5.982 PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 33 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Revenues decreased by $135 million, or 39%, to $212 million in 2009. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog harvest volumes ($83 million), lower sawlog prices ($32 million), lower pulpwood harvest volumes ($15 million) and lower pulpwood prices ($7 million). Total harvest volumes for 2009 decreased by 26% compared to 2008. Sawlog harvest volumes were 37% lower compared to 2008 due primarily to harvest deferrals as a result of weak log prices and limited demand due to mill closures and curtailments. Revenues associated with our Montana mills declined $42 million in 2009 due to mill closures and curtailments. Pulpwood harvest volumes were 13% lower due primarily to temporary increases in harvest levels in 2008 to capture favorable pulpwood prices and recent timberland sales. Sawlog harvest levels for 2010 are expected to be comparable to 2009 due primarily to continued weak log prices and limited demand. Pulpwood harvest levels are expected to decrease by approximately 20% due primarily to temporarily increasing harvest levels in 2008 and 2009 to capture favorable pulpwood prices, recent timberland sales and weaker demand. Sawlog prices were 21% lower in 2009 compared to 2008 due primarily to the decline in housing starts as a result of the recession in the U.S. Demand for wood products has significantly decreased as housing starts have declined approximately 40% from 2008 levels and have declined almost 70% from average annual starts earlier in the decade. Pulpwood prices were 7% lower as compared to 2008 as a result of the global recession which has reduced the demand for paper and packaging materials. Northern Resources Segment operating loss was $3 million for 2009 compared to operating income of $41 million in 2008. This decrease of $44 million was due primarily to weaker sawlog prices and lower harvest volumes. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $91 million, or 30%, to $215 million due primarily to lower harvest volumes, lower log and haul rates per ton and lower forest management and administrative expenses. Log and haul rates per ton decreased 12% ($18 million) due primarily to lower fuel costs. Various forest management and administrative expenses have decreased by 13% ($7 million) due primarily to cost reduction initiatives and timberland dispositions. Southern Resources Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Sawlog ($/Ton Stumpage) 4.402 $ 22 5.570 $ 26 Pulpwood ($/Ton Stumpage) 6.999 $ 10 8.027 $ 10 Total 11.401 13.597 Revenues decreased by $114 million, or 25%, to $347 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog harvest volumes ($51 million), lower pulpwood harvest volumes ($26 million), lower sawlog prices ($21 million) and lower pulpwood prices ($16 million). During the fourth quarter of 2008, we contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands in our Southern Resources Segment to Southern Diversified Timber, LLC (the Timberland Venture). Excluding the 0.690 million tons of sawlogs harvested in the first nine months of 2008 related to the Timberland Venture properties, sawlog harvest volumes decreased by 10% due primarily to harvest deferrals as a result of weak log prices and limited demand due to mill closures and curtailments. Excluding the 0.667 million tons of pulpwood harvested in the first nine months of 2008 related to the Timberland Venture properties, pulpwood harvest volumes decreased by 5% due primarily to temporarily increasing harvest levels in 2008 to capture favorable pulpwood prices. Total harvest levels for 2010 are expected to be comparable to 2009; however, sawlog volume is expected to increase by one million tons and pulpwood volume is expected to decrease by one million tons. During the past several years we have concentrated on thinning young timber stands (i.e., first thinnings) to maintain vigorous growth rates and capture favorable pulpwood prices. The timber harvested during these first thinnings is predominately pulpwood. As a result of accelerating pulpwood harvests in prior years, our standing inventory has shifted and, therefore, in 2010 we will be focusing a greater proportion of thinnings on more mature timber stands that contain both pulpwood and small diameter sawlogs. Sawlog prices on a stumpage basis were 16% lower in 2009 compared to 2008 due primarily to the decline in housing starts as a result of the recession in the U.S. Sawlog prices on a delivered basis decreased by 13%. Demand for wood products has significantly decreased as housing starts have declined approximately 40% from 2008 levels and have declined almost 70% from average annual starts earlier in the decade. Pulpwood prices were 5% lower on a stumpage basis (9% 34 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 lower on a delivered basis) during 2009 compared to the prior year as a result of the global recession which has reduced the demand for paper and packaging materials. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 23% of its revenues for 2009 and 28% for 2008. This decrease was due primarily to weaker sawlog and pulpwood prices and lower harvest volumes, offset in part by lower fuel costs, forest management and administrative expenses. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $67 million, or 20%, to $266 million. This decrease was due primarily to lower harvest levels, lower log and haul rates per ton and lower forest management and administrative expenses. Log and haul rates per ton decreased 16% ($18 million) due primarily to lower fuel costs. Various forest management and administrative expenses have decreased by 14% ($10 million) due primarily to cost reduction initiatives and timberland dispositions. Real Estate Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Property AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenue per Acre Small Non Strategic 19,620 $ 19 $ 950 92,285 $ 89 $ 965 Conservation 165,855 280 1,690 175,740 200 1,140 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 50,275 112 2,235 45,610 136 2,975 Development Properties 2,060 12 5,520 820 7 8,770 Subtotal 237,810 423 314,455 432 Large Non Strategic 59,160 38 650 Revenue from Non Cash Exchange 20,600 25 1,205 Total 317,570 $ 486 314,455 $ 432 Revenues increased by $54 million to $486 million in 2009. This increase is due primarily to higher revenues from sales of conservation properties ($80 million), revenue of $38 million from selling 59,000 large, non strategic acres in Wisconsin, revenue from a non cash exchange valued at $25 million, increase in the number of acres of higher and better use/recreational properties sold ($14 million), offset in part by a decrease in the number of acres of small non strategic land sales ($70 million) and lower prices from higher and better use / recreational properties ($37 million). Revenues from the sale of conservation properties increased due primarily to the sale of approximately 112,000 acres in Montana for $250 million during 2009. The $250 million conservation sale during 2009 was the second in a three phase transaction. The first phase was during 2008 and conveyed approximately 130,000 acres in Montana for $150 million. The third phase of approximately 70,000 acres in Montana is expected to close late in 2010 for approximately $89 million. Conservation sales vary significantly from period to period and are primarily impacted by government and not for profit funding, the limited number of conservation buyers, and the timing of our transactions. Additionally, the price per acre for conservation properties can vary significantly due to the geographic location and the rationale for the conservation designation. From time to time, we may dispose of larger blocks of other timberlands to maximize value such as the 59,000 acres in Wisconsin we sold during 2009. Additionally, during 2009, we completed a non cash exchange of land with the State of Washington. We recognized $25 million of revenue which represents the fair value of the lands we received. No operating income was recognized in the transaction as the book value of the timberlands we disposed approximated the exchange value of $25 million. Our average sales price per acre for higher and better use / recreational lands decreased approximately 25% during 2009 due primarily to selling more of our lower valued recreational properties. In the latter part of 2008, we began selling more lower valued recreational properties as demand and price for properties with a higher value per acre significantly weakened. The weaker demand for higher valued recreational properties was due primarily to the decline in consumer discretionary capital, declining consumer confidence and the inability of buyers to secure debt financing. Consequently, we increased our sales in regions with lower per acre prices. The number of higher and better / use recreational properties sold during 2009 increased by 10% compared to 2008 due primarily to our focus on listing more lower valued properties. Our long term plan is to increase the higher and better use / recreational properties as a percentage of total acres sold. PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 35 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 The decrease in small non strategic acres sold during 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to our declining number of small non strategic properties. However, during the fourth quarter of 2009 in connection with our periodic review of our timberland portfolio, we identified approximately 100,000 additional acres of small non strategic properties. Additionally, the timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the number of properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. Also, in any period the sales average will vary based on the location and physical characteristics of the parcels sold. We expect revenues from real estate sales during 2010 to range between $350 million and $370 million of which approximately $72 million is from several large sales that have closed in 2010 consisting of 35,000 acres of conservation properties and 47,000 acres of non strategic properties. Additionally, we expect approximately $89 million from the closing of the third phase of our large Montana sale during the fourth quarter of 2010. In addition, from time to time, we may dispose of larger blocks of other timberlands to maximize value. The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 57% for the periods ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $21 million to $208 million in 2009. Manufactured Products Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Sales Volume Sales Realization A Sales Volume Sales Realization A Lumber 164,512 MBF $ 397 289,833 MBF $ 371 Plywood 154,918 MSF $ 357 236,983 MSF $ 397 Fiberboard 132,092 MSF $ 597 197,431 MSF $ 604 A Represents product prices at mill level Revenues decreased by $160 million, or 40%, to $245 million in 2009. This decrease was due primarily to lower MDF sales volumes ($40 million), lower lumber sales volumes ($38 million), lower plywood sales volumes ($33 million), lower wood chips and residuals sales ($7 million) and lower plywood prices ($6 million). Additionally, freight charges (which is a component of both Revenues and Cost of Goods Sold) decreased by $21 million compared to the prior period due to significantly lower sales volume. External sales of wood chips and residuals were lower due primarily to production curtailments at regional mills. MDF sales volume decreased by 33% in 2009 compared to 2008. MDF demand has weakened considerably and is expected to remain weak until the housing market recovers. The weaker demand was due primarily to the significant decline in housing starts and related construction activity along with increased competition from foreign MDF manufacturers and new domestic production. While global MDF capacity increased an estimated 13% during 2009, total North American MDF consumption decreased approximately 23% during the same year. As global capacity is expected to continue to increase in 2010, even with a modest recovery in housing and construction there will continue to be excess capacity at expected demand levels. As a result of the limited demand, we have reduced production to approximately 50% of capacity. Lumber sales volume declined 43% during 2009 due primarily to the weak demand as a result of declining housing starts. Housing starts for all of 2009 were 554,000 homes (a record low since 1945) compared to 905,000 homes in 2008 and average annual starts of 1.7 million earlier in the decade. Housing starts for 2010 are forecasted to improve only modestly to approximately 710,000 homes. As a result of the weak outlook for housing starts, we permanently closed two lumber mills, indefinitely curtailed production at one additional mill and one remanufacturing facility and reduced production at another mill during 2009. The higher lumber sales realization resulted from curtailing production of our least valuable lumber products. Prices for all lumber products declined during 2009. Plywood sales volume was 35% lower during 2009 due primarily to weak demand in specialty markets, such as recreational vehicle, transportation and concrete forming applications, as a result of the recession in the U.S. The demand for our plywood products was also negatively impacted due to increased competition from commodity plywood 36 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 manufacturers as a result of the depressed housing market. The weaker demand and increased competition caused our plywood sales realization to decline in 2009. As a result of the limited demand, we have reduced production to approximately 55% of capacity. Manufactured Products Segment operating loss was $23 million for 2009 compared to an operating loss of $44 million for 2008. The operating loss was lower in 2009 due primarily to write downs for inventories and purchase log commitments ($16 million) in 2008 and, to a lesser extent, improvements from cost reductions and lower operating levels. Operating results for both 2008 and 2009 were negatively impacted by $10 million impairment charges. See Notes 3 and 5 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $181 million, or 40%, to $268 million for 2009. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber, plywood and MDF sales volume and lower costs for MDF raw materials. MDF raw material costs decreased by $10 million due primarily to lower resin and wood chip prices. Other Segment. Revenues decreased by $7 million, or 28%, to $18 million in 2009. This decrease was due primarily to lower gas royalties (both price and volume) due primarily to lower gas prices in 2009. On average, gas prices declined 52% in 2009 compared to 2008. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other costs and eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $51 million during 2009 and by $64 million during 2008. The decrease in expenses of $13 million was due primarily to corporate cost reduction initiatives and reduced incentive compensation ($7 million), lower share based compensation expense ($3 million), lower depreciation on information technology assets ($2 million) and higher legal and other advisory costs incurred in 2008 related to the Timberland Venture transaction ($1 million). The decrease in share based compensation expense is due to a decrease in the fair value of our value management plan awards in 2009. We adjust the fair value of our liability associated with our value management plan quarterly based on our relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of several peer groups. Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture. On October 1, 2008, we contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands to Southern Diversified Timber, LLC (the Timberland Venture) in exchange for a common and preferred interest. Both interests are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. During 2009, we recorded our share of equity earnings from the Timberland Venture of $55 million, which includes amortization ($7 million increase in equity earnings) of the difference between the book value of the companys investment and its proportionate share of the Timberland Ventures net assets. We received cash distributions of $53 million from the Timberland Venture during 2009. During 2008, we recorded equity earnings from the Timberland Venture of $15 million, which includes amortization of basis difference of $1 million. We did not receive any cash distributions from the Timberland Venture during 2008. See Notes 16 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Expense, net (Debt Obligations to Unrelated Parties). Interest expense, net of interest income, for debt obligations to unrelated parties decreased $45 million, or 34%, to $89 million in 2009. This decrease was due primarily to lower borrowings outstanding for 2009 compared to 2008 ($33 million) and lower interest rates on our variable rate debt ($12 million) during 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we paid down approximately $420 million of debt, consisting of $219 million of debt principal payments and a $201 million reduction of outstanding borrowings on our line of credit. During 2009, we made principal payments on our Senior Notes totaling $272 million of which $89 million was funded by increased borrowing on our line of credit. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate for the borrowings on the line of credit was 0.63%. Interest Expense (Note Payable to Timberland Venture). On October 1, 2008, we borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture (a related party) for a ten year term at a fixed annual interest rate of 7.375%. During 2009, we recorded $58 million of interest expense related to the note. During 2008, we recorded $14 million of interest expense related to the note. Gain (Loss) on Extinguishment of Debt. In 2009, we made debt principal prepayments at a slight premium resulting in a $2 million loss, net of the associated unamortized discount and debt issuance costs. In 2008, we paid approximately $50 million to retire $62 million of principal for debt due in 2015. As a result, we recognized a gain in 2008 of $11 million which was net of the associated unamortized discount and debt issuance costs. PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 37 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Benefit for Income Taxes. The benefit for income taxes was $31 million for 2009 compared to a benefit for income taxes of $27 million for 2008. The increase in the tax benefit of $4 million is due primarily to the reversal of $5 million in 2009 of built in gains tax that was accrued in 2008 (change of $10 million) and a reduction to our deferred tax liability ($3 million). See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These tax benefits were partially offset by lower losses at our taxable REIT subsidiaries in 2009, primarily in our manufacturing business, which resulted in a lower tax benefit of $7 million. At December 31, 2009, we have recorded deferred tax assets of $59 million and deferred tax liabilities of $39 million. We have not recorded a valuation allowance in connection with our gross deferred tax asset of $59 million. A valuation allowance is recognized if it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Management believes that due to either the reversal of timing differences or the planned execution of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies, sufficient taxable income can be generated to fully utilize its deferred tax assets. 2008 COMPARED TO 2007 Northern Resources Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Sawlog ($/Ton Delivered) 3.366 $ 69 3.602 $ 73 Pulpwood ($/Ton Delivered) 2.616 $ 43 2.626 $ 37 Total 5.982 6.228 Revenues decreased by $14 million, or 4%, to $347 million in 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower harvest volumes ($17 million) and lower sawlog prices ($13 million), partially offset by higher pulpwood prices ($14 million). Sawlog harvest volume during 2008 was 3.4 million tons compared to 3.6 million tons in 2007. Pulpwood harvest volume was 2.6 million tons during both 2008 and 2007. The 7% decrease in sawlog harvest volume was due primarily to a planned reduction in harvest levels as a result of temporarily increasing harvest volumes in prior years to capture favorable prices and recent timberland sales. Additionally, during 2008 we announced the sale of 310,000 acres of timberlands located in Montana which is scheduled to close in phases over a three year period, the first of which closed in 2008. The harvest volume from these acres in both 2007 and 2008 was 0.3 million tons. Sawlog prices were 6% lower compared to the prior year due primarily to weak lumber prices. During 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, sawlog prices were under downward pressure due primarily to the significant decline in housing starts as a result of the recession in the U.S., the significant number of foreclosed homes, and the increased difficulty in obtaining financing for the purchase of a home. Pulpwood prices were 15% higher compared to the prior year due primarily to strong demand for wood fiber from pulp and paper companies, a reduced supply of woodchips as a result of lumber and plywood mill curtailments, increasing demand for wood fiber for energy use, and wet weather conditions which limited pulpwood availability in certain markets. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 12% of its revenues for 2008 and 16% for 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices and higher hauling rates, offset in part by higher pulpwood prices. Segment costs and expenses increased by $3 million, or 1%, to $306 million in 2008. The increase was due primarily to higher log and haul costs, offset in part by a $4 million fire loss in 2007. On a per ton basis, logging and hauling costs increased 6% ($11 million) due primarily to higher fuel costs. However, the log and haul rate per ton during the fourth quarter of 2008 was approximately the same as the fourth quarter of 2007 due to the decline in the cost of oil. 38 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Southern Resources Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Sawlog ($/Ton Stumpage) 5.570 $ 26 6.412 $ 31 Pulpwood ($/Ton Stumpage) 8.027 $ 10 7.716 $ 9 Total 13.597 14.128 Revenues decreased by $31 million, or 6%, to $461 million in 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices ($18 million), lower harvest volumes ($17 million) and a lower margin mix of log sales ($14 million), partially offset by higher pulpwood prices ($18 million). Sawlog prices were 14% lower on a stumpage basis in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to a combination of weak demand and higher hauling costs. Sawlog prices on a delivered basis decreased by 7%. Pulpwood prices on a stumpage basis were 17% higher in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to the strong demand for wood fiber from pulp and paper companies throughout most of 2008 and a reduced supply of woodchips as a result of lumber and plywood mill curtailments. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, pulpwood demand began to weaken due to the slowing U.S. economy. On a delivered basis, pulpwood prices increased 10%. As a result of the improved pulpwood prices and weak sawlog prices, we increased the percentage of pulpwood harvested and decreased the percentage of sawlogs harvested, which resulted in an overall lower margin mix from log sales. Sawlog harvest volume during 2008 was 5.6 million tons compared to 6.4 million tons in 2007. Pulpwood harvest volume was 8.0 million tons compared to 7.7 million tons in 2007. The 13% decrease in sawlog harvest volume was due primarily to harvest deferrals as a result of weak log prices. Additionally, on October 1, 2008, we contributed approximately 11% of our southern timberlands to a timberland venture (see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Harvest volume from these timberlands was approximately 1.4 million tons for both the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, and in both periods the percentage of sawlogs harvested was slightly greater than 50%. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 28% of its revenues for 2008 and 33% for 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices, a lower margin mix from log sales and higher hauling rates. Segment costs and expenses increased by $2 million, or 1%, to $333 million. This increase was due primarily to higher logging and hauling rates per ton, offset in part by lower logging and hauling expenditures as a result of lower harvest levels. On a per ton basis, logging and hauling costs increased 7% ($12 million) due primarily to higher fuel costs. However, the log and haul rate per ton during the fourth quarter of 2008 was approximately the same as the fourth quarter of 2007 due to the decline in the cost of oil. Real Estate Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 Property AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenue per Acre Small Non Strategic 92,285 $ 89 $ 965 77,530 $ 110 $ 1,400 Conservation 175,740 200 1,140 31,845 42 1,340 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 45,610 136 2,975 37,065 128 3,475 Development Properties 820 7 8,770 5,290 50 9,440 Subtotal 314,455 432 151,730 330 Large Non Strategic 99,325 70 705 Total 314,455 $ 432 251,055 $ 400 Proceeds from Joint Ventures $ $ 2 PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 39 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Revenues increased by $30 million to $432 million in 2008. Excluding revenue from a large, non strategic timberland sale in 2007, revenues increased $100 million in 2008 to $432 million, compared to $332 million in 2007. This increase is due primarily to higher revenues from sales of conservation properties ($158 million), increase in the number of acres of higher and better use / recreational and small non strategic land sales ($50 million), offset in part by lower average prices from higher and better use / recreational and small non strategic land sales ($63 million), and lower revenues from sales of development properties ($43 million). In December 2007, we sold 99,325 large non strategic acres in Wisconsin for $70 million. Revenues from the sale of conservation properties increased by $158 million due primarily to the sale of approximately 130,000 acres in Montana for $150 million in December 2008. Conservation sales vary significantly from period to period and are primarily impacted by government and not for profit funding, the limited number of conservation buyers, and the timing of our transactions. Additionally, the price per acre for conservation properties can vary significantly due to the geographic location and the rationale for the conservation designation. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the number of properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. Also, in any period the sales average will vary based on the location and physical characteristics of the parcels sold. The increase in the number of acres of small non strategic properties sold during 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the timing of sales. The number of acres of higher and better use / recreational properties sold during 2008 increased by 23% compared to 2007, due primarily to our long term plan to expand the number of higher and better use / recreational acres available for sale in many of the areas we own timberlands. Our average sales price per acre for higher and better use / recreational lands decreased approximately 15% during 2008 due primarily to selling more of our lower valued recreational properties. In the latter part of 2008, we changed our focus to offering more of our lower valued recreational properties as demand and price for properties with a higher value per acre significantly weakened due to the recession in the U.S. and the reduced availability of credit. Consequently, we increased our sales in areas with lower per acre prices. Our average sales price per acre for small non strategic properties declined approximately 31% during 2008 due primarily to selling a mix of less valuable timberlands during 2008. During 2007, we sold a greater percentage of properties from higher value regions. Revenue from the sales of our development properties declined primarily because of a significant decrease in the demand for these properties as a result of a decline in consumer confidence and the financial market turmoil. We do not expect the demand for our development properties to return until the U.S. economy recovers and there is an improvement in consumer confidence. The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 57% for the period ended December 31, 2008, compared to 62% for the same period in 2007. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $35 million to $187 million in 2008. This increase was due primarily to selling more acres during 2008. Manufactured Products Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 Sales Volume Sales Realization A Sales Volume Sales Realization A Lumber 289,833 MBF $ 371 350,431 MBF $ 400 Plywood 236,983 MSF $ 397 277,446 MSF $ 405 Fiberboard 197,431 MSF $ 604 254,028 MSF $ 525 A Represents product prices at mill level Revenues decreased by $66 million, or 14%, to $405 million in 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower MDF sales volumes ($31 million), lower lumber sales volumes ($20 million), lower lumber prices ($14 million) and lower plywood sales volumes ($17 million), offset in part by higher MDF prices ($16 million). Lumber prices during 2008 were 7% lower than during 2007 due primarily to weak demand and excess supply. The demand for lumber has declined due primarily to significantly lower housing starts. U.S. housing starts peaked in 2005 at 2.07 million units and since then have been on a steady decline. Housing starts for 2008 were 0.9 million compared to 1.35 million units in 2007, a decrease of 40 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 33%. The lower housing starts are due in part to an excess supply of unsold homes on the market, with an eleven month supply compared to an historical average supply of four to five months. The excess supply of unsold homes is expected to continue for at least the next twelve months due to falling home prices, high foreclosure rates, stricter borrowing terms from lenders and the current recession in the U.S. Lumber sales volume decreased by 17% due primarily to production curtailments as a result of weak lumber prices. MDF sales volume decreased by 22% in 2008. MDF demand weakened during 2008, especially during the second half of 2008, and is expected to remain weak until the housing market recovers. The weaker demand was due primarily to the significant decline in housing starts and the excess supply of inventories held by flooring and door manufacturers, distributors and retailers. MDF prices during 2008 were 16% higher compared to the prior year. Despite weaker demand, customers were generally willing to pay higher prices to partially compensate manufacturers for the higher cost of raw materials. Plywood sales volumes were 15% lower during 2008 compared to 2007. The decrease was due primarily to weakness in specialty markets, such as recreational vehicle, transportation and concrete forming applications. The decline in these markets is due primarily to the recession in the U.S., low consumer confidence and the reduced availability of credit. Manufactured Products Segment operating loss was $44 million for 2008 compared to operating income of $2 million for 2007. This decrease in operating performance was due primarily to write downs for inventories and purchase log commitments ($16 million), a lumber manufacturing assets impairment charge ($10 million), weak lumber prices and higher MDF raw materials costs. During 2008, we recorded a $7 million write down to net realizable value for our manufactured products inventories and a $9 million loss related to commitments to purchase logs from unrelated third parties. See Note 3 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements. Also during 2008, we recorded an impairment charge related to certain of our lumber manufacturing assets due primarily to weak lumber prices and the expectation that housing starts, and therefore lumber prices, are not expected to improve in the near term. See Note 5 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $20 million, or 4%, to $449 million for 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber, plywood and MDF sales volume, offset in part by inventory and purchase commitments write downs of $16 million, the $10 million lumber manufacturing assets impairment charge and higher MDF raw materials costs. MDF raw materials costs increased by $15 million due to higher wood chip costs (caused by a regional shortage from lower lumber production) and higher resin costs. Other Segment. Revenues increased by $5 million, or 25%, to $25 million in 2008. This increase was due primarily to higher gas royalties ($3 million) and higher gas lease bonuses recognized as revenue ($2 million). Higher gas royalties were due primarily to higher gas prices in 2008. During 2008, we received cash proceeds of $21 million related to gas exploration rights granted on approximately 135,000 acres, of which $3 million was recognized as revenue. Of the $21 million, approximately $18 million will be amortized into revenue over the remaining portion of the exploration term. Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture. On October 1, 2008, we contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands to Southern Diversified Timber, LLC (the Timberland Venture) in exchange for a common and preferred interest. Both interests are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. During 2008, we recorded our share of equity earnings from the Timberland Venture of $15 million, which includes amortization ($1 million) of the difference between the book value of the companys investment and its proportionate share of the Timberland Ventures net assets. No cash distributions were made by the Timberland Venture to the company during 2008. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Expense, net (Debt Obligations to Unrelated Parties). Interest expense, net of interest income, for debt obligations to unrelated parties decreased $13 million, or 9%, to $134 million in 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower interest rates on our variable rate debt. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we made approximately $208 million of debt principal payments and reduced outstanding borrowings on our line of credit by $201 million from the proceeds we received from the Note Payable to Timberland Venture and the $150 million conservation sale in Montana. Interest Expense (Note Payable to Timberland Venture). Also, on October 1, 2008, we borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture (a related party) for a ten year term at a fixed annual interest rate of 7.375%. During 2008, we recorded $14 million of interest expense related to the note. Gain on Extinguishment of Debt. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we paid approximately $50 million to retire $62 million of principal for our Senior Notes due in 2015. As a result, we recognized a gain in 2008 of $11 million which was net of the associated unamortized discount and debt issuance costs. PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 41 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Benefit for Income Taxes. The benefit for income taxes was $27 million for 2008 compared to a benefit for income taxes of $3 million for 2007. The increase in the tax benefit of $24 million is due primarily to losses in our manufacturing business (resulting in a tax benefit of $18 million) and lower real estate sales (primarily development properties) from our taxable REIT subsidiaries (resulting in a tax benefit of $6 million). Financial Condition and Liquidity Our cash flows from operations are impacted by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry and by general economic conditions in the United States, including interest rate levels and availability of financing. We generate cash primarily from sales of delivered logs and standing timber, sales of our finished manufactured wood products, and sales of our timberlands. Our principal cash requirements are primarily for: expenditures for logging and hauling of logs, purchases of logs, fiber and other raw materials used in our manufacturing facilities, employee compensation and related benefits, reforestation, silviculture, road construction and road maintenance on our timberlands, and energy and operating expenditures to run our manufacturing facilities. Our Resources and Manufactured Products Segments have significant uses of cash, and as a result our operating income (excluding depletion and depreciation) approximates the Segments operating cash flow. On the other hand, our cash outflows in our Real Estate and Other Segments are very small, and as a result our revenues from those Segments approximate operating cash flows. Occasionally, we may recognize revenues in connection with non cash exchanges of timberland when the exchanges are considered to have commercial substance. During 2009, we recognized $25 million of revenue in the Real Estate Segment in connection with a non cash exchange of timberland. In certain circumstances for our Other Segment, cash will be received in upfront payments, such as lease bonuses, but revenues will be recognized over several reporting periods (quarters or years). We have summarized our sources and uses of cash in a table at the end of this section. During 2009, our cash flows continued to be negatively impacted by the significant downturn in the U.S. economy and specifically by the decline in housing starts. The weak housing market caused the operating income of our timber business to decline by approximately 50%, and we continued to generate an operating loss in our manufacturing business. However, despite the weak economy, due to our extensive and unique land holdings, we continued to generate significant proceeds from real estate sales. For example, we received proceeds of $250 million during 2009 from the closing of the second phase of a three phase transaction. Also during 2009, we received $48 million in proceeds from a like kind exchange escrow account. Despite the weak economy, we believe we have a strong balance sheet and do not foresee any short term liquidity issues. At December 31, 2009, we had a cash balance of $299 million and had availability of $419 million under our line of credit. We believe the housing market hit bottom in 2009 and will slowly begin to improve in 2010. We expect cash provided by operating activities to decline by approximately $100 million from the $540 million we generated in 2009. However, we believe this lower level will be more than adequate to fund our current dividend (approximately $273 million), planned capital expenditures ($75 million to $80 million) and scheduled long term debt principal payments ($55 million). The lower expected cash provided by operating activities is due primarily to reduced proceeds from real estate sales and no distributions of funds held in a like kind exchange escrow account (a working capital benefit), as no funds are held at the end of 2009. The following table summarizes total cash flows for operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 540 $ 420 $ 517 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (64 ) (205 ) (262 ) Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (546 ) (86 ) (288 ) Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (70 ) $ 129 $ (33 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $540 million, compared to $420 million in 2008. This increase of $120 million is due primarily to favorable working capital changes ($117 million), lower interest payments for debt obligations to unrelated parties ($50 million), 42 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 lower pension funding ($20 million) and lower operating losses in our manufacturing business ($21 million), offset in part by lower operating income in our timber business ($91 million). See Results of Operations for a discussion of factors impacting Segment Operating Income. The favorable working capital change is due primarily to the timing of when proceeds from a like kind exchange escrow account are either reinvested in replacement property or distributed to the company. Proceeds associated with a forward like kind exchange are either reinvested in like kind property within 180 days or distributed to the company at the end of either the 45 day identification period or the 180 day reinvestment period. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we received proceeds of $48 million from a like kind exchange escrow account compared to $48 million of proceeds placed in a like kind exchange escrow account at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, there were no funds held in a like kind exchange escrow account. At present, we do not expect to enter into like kind exchange transactions during 2010. During 2008, we contributed approximately 454,000 acres to a timberland venture followed by borrowing $783 million from the venture. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A portion of the loan proceeds were used to retire outstanding indebtedness to unrelated parties. During 2009, we made interest payments of $58 million to the venture compared to interest payments of $7 million in 2008. During 2009, we received $53 million in cash distributions from the venture while no distributions were received in 2008. As a result of lower debt levels (to unrelated parties) and lower interest rates on our variable rate debt, we reduced interest payments for debt obligations to unrelated parties by $50 million in 2009. Additionally, during 2008 we made pension contributions of $30 million while only $10 million was required in 2009 based on our funding policy. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $420 million, compared to $517 million in 2007. This decrease of $97 million is due primarily to a combined $86 million decrease in operating income for our Resources Segments and our Manufactured Products Segment (net of a non cash impairment charge) and a $64 million negative working capital change, offset in part by higher Real Estate Segment sales of $30 million and proceeds from gas exploration rights of $21 million. At December 31, 2008, we had $48 million of proceeds held in a like kind exchange escrow account compared to December 31, 2007 where all like kind exchange funds had been utilized for timberland acquisitions during the year. Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures were as follows for the years ending December 31 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Capital Expenditures (Excluding Timberland Acquisitions) $ 61 $ 70 $ 93 Expenditures for Real Estate Development 1 7 19 Total Capital Expenditures $ 62 $ 77 $ 112 Timberland Acquisitions. There were no significant timberland acquisitions in 2009. During 2008, 147,000 acres were acquired primarily in Georgia, Vermont and Oregon for approximately $119 million. During 2007, 69,000 acres were acquired primarily in Oregon and Georgia for $174 million. These acquisitions were funded through the companys line of credit and like kind exchanges. Planned capital expenditures for 2010, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, are expected to range between $75 million and $80 million and include approximately $65 million for our timberlands, $4 million for our manufacturing facilities, $3 million for real estate development investments, and $4 million for investments in information technology, primarily for resource accounting system enhancements. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Approximately 50% of planned capital expenditures in 2010 are discretionary, primarily expenditures for silviculture. Capital expenditures at our manufacturing facilities consist primarily of expenditures to sustain operating activities and improve safety. Debt Financing. We strive to maintain a balance sheet that provides the financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives. In order to maintain this financial flexibility, the companys objective is to maintain its investment grade credit rating. This is reflected in our moderate use of debt, good access to credit markets and no material covenant restrictions in our debt agreements that would prevent us from prudently using debt capital. All of our borrowings, except for the Note Payable to Timberland Venture, are made by Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., the companys wholly owned operating partnership (the Partnership). PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 43 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Line of Credit. The company has a $750 million revolving line of credit agreement that matures in June 2011. As of December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate for the borrowings on the line of credit was 0.63%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.425%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.27% to LIBOR plus 1% depending on our debt ratings. Subject to customary covenants, the line of credit allows for borrowings from time to time up to $750 million, including up to $100 million of standby letters of credit. Borrowings on the line of credit fluctuate daily based on cash needs. As of December 31, 2009, we had $320 million of borrowings and $11 million of standby letters of credit outstanding; $419 million remained available for borrowing under our line of credit. As of January 4, 2010, $295 million of the borrowings under our line of credit was repaid. Term Credit Agreements. The company has two term credit agreements under which there is $250 million and $350 million outstanding. These borrowings mature in 2012. The agreements allow for prepayment of the borrowings at any time prior to the maturity date without premium or penalty. As of December 31, 2009, the interest rate for the $250 million term credit agreement was 1.28%. The interest rate on this term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 1.00%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.5% to LIBOR plus 1.5% depending on our debt ratings. As of December 31, 2009, the interest rate for the $350 million term credit agreement was 0.73%. The interest rate on this term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 0.45%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. Senior Notes. The Company has outstanding Senior Notes with various maturities and fixed interest rates. Approximately half of the Senior Notes are privately placed borrowings with various lenders (Private Debt). The Private Debt matures serially through 2016. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has publicly issued and outstanding $458 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.875% Senior Notes (Public Debt). The Public Debt, which was issued by the Partnership, matures in 2015 and is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. and the Partnership have filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission which expires on April 24, 2012. Under the shelf registration statement, Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., from time to time, may offer and sell any combination of preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants and guarantees, and the Partnership may from time to time, offer and sell debt securities. The company and the Partnership intend to maintain a shelf registration statement with respect to such securities. Senior Notes outstanding, including unamortized discount, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31,2009 December 31,2008 Senior Notes Public Debt 453 458 Private Debt 627 893 Total Senior Notes $ 1,080 $ 1,351 Note Payable to Timberland Venture. In 2008, the company borrowed $783 million from a timberland venture (a related party). The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. During the ten year term of the note, interest is paid quarterly with the principal due upon maturity. The note matures on October 1, 2018 but may be extended until October 1, 2020 at the election of Plum Creek. The note is not redeemable prior to maturity. The note is structurally subordinated to all other indebtedness of the company at December 31, 2009. See Notes 8, 9 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Debt Principal Payments. During 2009, the company made debt principal payments on the Senior Notes totaling $272 million. In addition to scheduled debt payments of $158 million, the company prepaid approximately $109 million of principal for the Private Debt and $5 million of principal for the Public Debt. These prepayments resulted in a $2 million loss, net of the associated unamortized discount and debt issuance costs. The $2 million loss is classified as Loss on Extinguishment of Debt in the Consolidated Statements of Income. During 2008, the company made debt principal payments on the Senior Notes totaling $255 million. In addition to scheduled debt payments of $147 million, the company prepaid, without prepayment premiums, approximately $58 million of principal for the Private Debt. Also during 2008, the company paid approximately $50 million to retire $62 million of principal for the Public Debt. As a result, the company recognized a gain in 2008 of $11 million, net of the 44 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 associated unamortized discount and debt issuance costs. The $11 million gain is classified as Gain on Extinguishment of Debt in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Debt Covenants. Our Senior Notes, Term Credit Agreements and Line of Credit contain various restrictive covenants, none of which are expected to materially impact the financing of our ongoing operations. We are in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2009. These restrictive covenants include limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or stock repurchases), harvest levels and sales of assets. Furthermore, our Line of Credit and Term Credit Agreements require that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. We have no covenants and restrictions associated with changes in our debt ratings. We have investment grade long term debt ratings from both of the primary rating services. Our debt is rated BBB (Stable outlook) by Standard & Poors and Baa3 (Stable outlook) by Moodys Investors Service. Furthermore, there are no material covenants associated with our Note Payable to Timberland Venture, and the indebtedness is not considered in computing any of our debt covenants since the debt is an obligation of Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. and not the Partnership. As of December 31, 2009, we can borrow the entire $750 million under our Line of Credit. We expect to be able to incur at least this level of additional indebtedness for the next twelve months. The borrowing agreements limit our ability to make restricted payments based on a computation of available cash, which is generally our net income (excluding gains on the sale of capital assets) after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves, less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. Additionally, the amount of available cash may be increased by the amount of proceeds from the sale of higher and better use properties and, under certain circumstances, by 50% of the amount of net proceeds from the sale of other assets. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Sources of Cash: Operations A $ 437 $ 513 $ 528 Changes in Working Capital, net 61 (56 ) 8 Cash Distributions from Timberland Venture 53 Cash from Stock Option Exercises 14 8 Proceeds from Note Payable to Timberland Venture 783 Increase Debt Obligations, net 200 Other Cash Changes, net 1 5 Total Sources of Cash 552 1,254 749 Uses of Cash: Returned to Stockholders: Dividends (275 ) (286 ) (294 ) Common Stock Repurchases (87 ) (264 ) (202 ) Reinvest in the Business: Capital Expenditures (including Real Estate Development) (62 ) (77 ) (112 ) Acquire Timberlands (1 ) (119 ) (174 ) Expenditures for Timberland Venture (9 ) Meet our Pension Obligations: Pension Contributions (10 ) (30 ) Purchases of Marketable Securities (3 ) (7 ) Reduce Debt Obligations, net (184 ) (333 ) Total Uses of Cash (622 ) (1,125 ) (782 ) Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (70 ) $ 129 $ (33 ) A Calculated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Amount is calculated by adding back non cash items and other operating activities to Net Income. PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 45 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Equity. On February 9, 2010, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.42 per share, or approximately $68 million, which will be paid on March 5, 2010, to stockholders of record on February 19, 2010. Future dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the prices of and demand for Plum Creeks products, and changes in our ability to sell timberlands at attractive prices. Other factors that our Board of Directors considers include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. Plum Creeks Board of Directors has authorized a common stock repurchase program that may be increased from time to time at the Board of Directors discretion. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we repurchased 3.3 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $87 million, or an average cost per share of $26.57. At December 31, 2009, $50 million is available for share repurchases under the current Board of Directors authorization. Future Cash Requirements. Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. In 2010, we have $55 million of scheduled long term debt principal payments of which substantially all was paid during the first quarter of 2010 using a combination of cash and available borrowing capacity under our $750 million line of credit. Additionally, we believe that our current cash on hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures and interest payments on our indebtedness through the end of 2010. Other Information Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. In June 2009, the FASB issued a revised accounting standard regarding the Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. Among other things, the revised standard amends certain guidance for determining whether an entity is a variable interest entity (VIE), requires a qualitative rather than quantitative analysis to determine the primary beneficiary of a VIE, requires continuous assessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE and requires enhanced disclosures about an enterprises involvement with a VIE. The revised standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009, for interim periods within those fiscal years, and for interim and annual reporting periods thereafter. The company does not expect the adoption of this revised accounting standard will have a material impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 46 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7A Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk Approximately $1.9 billion (including $783 million of related party obligations) of Plum Creeks long term debt bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents contractual principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of the companys debt obligations and the related weighted average contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed rate debt (in millions): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total FairValue A December 31, 2009 Fixed Rate Debt Third Party Obligations Principal Due B $ 56 $ 308 $ 3 $ 250 $ 3 $ 466 $ 1,086 $ 1,136 Average Interest Rate C 6.7 % 6.5 % 6.2 % 6.1 % 5.9 % 5.9 % Related Party Obligations D Principal Due $ 783 $ 783 $ 795 Interest Rate 7.4 % Variable Rate Debt E $ 320 $ 600 $ 920 $ 891 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total FairValue A December 31, 2008 Fixed Rate Debt Third Party Obligations Principal Due B $ 159 $ 56 $ 416 $ 3 $ 250 $ 474 $ 1,358 $ 1,258 Average Interest Rate C 6.8 % 6.8 % 6.6 % 6.2 % 6.1 % 5.9 % Related Party Obligations D Principal Due $ 783 $ 783 $ 642 Interest Rate 7.4 % Variable Rate Debt $ 231 $ 600 $ 831 $ 791 A The fair value of the companys Public Debt (i.e., Senior Notes due 2015) is estimated using market quotes; the fair value of the companys Private Debt with unrelated third parties is estimated using the same rates adjusted for the different maturities. The fair value of the companys Note Payable to Timberland Venture is estimated using the same rates as the Public Debt adjusted by an estimated risk premium for holding company debt and the different maturity. The decrease in fair value of our fixed rate debt compared to December 31, 2008 (excluding related party debt) was due primarily to the principal repayments of $272 million of senior notes in 2009, offset in part by declining market interest rates. In December 2009, treasury rates were slightly higher than in December 2008, but credit spreads (the difference between corporate debt rates and treasury rates) had declined significantly from 2008 resulting in lower market interest rates. This change in rates also resulted in the increase in fair value of our Note Payable to Timberland Venture at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008. The fair value of our floating rate term loans (variable rate debt) as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was determined by adjusting the spread over LIBOR to a current market spread for comparable debt as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. B Excludes unamortized discount of $6 million and $7 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. C Represents the average interest rate of total fixed rate debt (excluding related party debt) outstanding at the end of the period. D On October 1, 2008, the company borrowed $783 million from a newly formed timberland venture. The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K | 47 Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7A E As of December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate on the $320 million of borrowings under our $750 million revolving line of credit was 0.63%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.425%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.27% to LIBOR plus 1% depending on our debt ratings. As of January 4, 2010, $295 million of the borrowings under our line of credit was repaid. As of December 31, 2009, the interest rate for the $350 million term credit agreement was 0.73%. The interest rate on the term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 0.45%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. As of December 31, 2009, the interest rate for the $250 million term credit agreement was 1.28%. The interest rate on the $250 million term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 1.00%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.5% to LIBOR plus 1.5% depending on our debt ratings. 48 | PLUM CREEK 2009 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 8 
 
