ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statement This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors under Item 1A in this Form 10 K. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in supply of timber products; an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use timberlands or non strategic timberlands; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of the company and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither the company nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements. Overview 2010 OPERATING PERFORMANCE COMPARED TO 2009 Our operating income for 2010 of $297 million was $2 million lower than our 2009 operating income. Our operations continue to be negatively impacted by near record low housing starts, low consumer confidence, declining home values, high unemployment and the difficulties associated with obtaining financing for home and real estate purchases. Despite these challenges, we reported higher operating income in our Northern and Southern Resources Segments and our Manufactured Products Segment, offset by lower operating income in our Real Estate Segment. Much of the improvement in earnings in our timber and manufacturing businesses during 2010 was due to improved product prices due to moderately increasing demand combined with tightness in the supply chain, which may not reoccur in 2011. Operating income in our Northern Resources Segment increased by $16 million from an operating loss of $3 million in 2009 to operating income of $13 million in 2010. This increase in earnings was due primarily to higher sawlog prices as a result of improved demand and low mill log inventories. Operating income in our Southern Resources Segment increased by $26 million from operating income of $81 million in 2009 to $107 million in 2010. This improvement in earnings was due primarily to a temporary increase in pulpwood prices as a result of weather related log shortages and increasing the percentage of sawlogs included in our total harvest. Operating income in our Manufactured Products Segment increased by $47 million from an operating loss of $23 million in 2009 to operating income of $24 million in 2010. During 2009, we significantly downsized our manufacturing operations which resulted in impairments, write downs, severance and pension settlement expense of $20 million. During 2010, we benefited from a temporary shortage associated with the restocking of supply chain inventories and our plywood and MDF mills additionally benefited from a temporary supply shortage as a result of the earthquake in Chile. Operating income in our Real Estate Segment decreased by $98 million from operating income of $278 million in 2009 to operating income of $180 million in 2010. This decrease in earnings was due primarily to a large conservation sale during 2009. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 21 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 During 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of $31 million compared to a tax provision of $1 million in 2010. This decrease in our tax benefit was due primarily to improved manufacturing results and a favorable tax law change in 2009. LIQUIDITY We believe we have a strong balance sheet and do not foresee any liquidity issues during 2011. At December 31, 2010, we had cash of $252 million and $425 million available for borrowing on our line of credit. During 2010, we reduced our total debt outstanding by almost $100 million and we refinanced upcoming debt maturities at favorable interest rates by issuing $575 million of Senior Notes at 4.70%. We expect cash provided by operating activities in 2011 to decline from the $449 million we generated in 2010 due primarily to lower proceeds from real estate sales. We believe the lower cash from operating activities will be more than adequate to fund our current dividend (approximately $272 million) and planned capital expenditures ($75 million to $80 million). We expect to fund 2011 scheduled long term debt principal payments ($94 million) with cash on hand or borrowings on our line of credit. KEY ECONOMIC FACTORS IMPACTING OUR RESOURCES AND MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS BUSINESS Our operating performance for the Resources and Manufactured Products Segments is impacted primarily by the supply and demand for logs and wood products in the United States. The short term supply of logs is impacted primarily by weather and the level of harvesting activities. The demand for logs and wood products in the United States is impacted by housing starts, repair and remodeling activities, industrial activity and the amount of imported lumber, primarily from Canada. Selected U.S. housing economic data for the last five years was as follows at December 31: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 U.S. Housing Starts (in millions) 0.59 0.55 0.90 1.35 1.80 Supply of Existing Homes for Sale (in months) 8 7 11 10 6 30 yr. Fixed Interest Mortgage Rates (average) 4.7 % 5.0 % 6.0 % 6.3 % 6.4 % The recession in the United States officially ended in 2009 and the economy continued to improve during 2010. The U.S. economy is once again expanding and the unemployment rate is beginning to slowly decline, although the rate is expected to remain high for the next several years. These economic conditions along with low interest rates, a weak U.S. dollar, and favorable demographics are expected to bode well for the wood products business in the long run. However, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding whether we will experience any improvement in the demand or prices for our logs or wood products during 2011 due to near record low housing starts, an excess supply of homes for sale, declining home values, high unemployment and strict lending requirements. Housing starts during 2010 were estimated to be 588,000, which was only a slight improvement over the record low housing starts of 554,000 (lowest since 1945) in the prior year. Housing starts for 2011 are only expected to improve modestly and will remain well below the long term expected annual rate of 1.5 million to 1.6 million starts until there is a significant decline in both the number of homes for sale and the unemployment rate. There is currently an eight month supply of new and existing homes for sale which is well above the historical average four month supply. The supply of homes for sale could increase in the future due to a potential increase in foreclosures and the timing of these homes being placed on the market. In addition to weak housing starts, the demand for wood products in the repair and remodeling sector has remained weak. Repair and remodeling activity is down approximately 20% from its peak earlier in the decade and is expected to improve only modestly during 2011 due primarily to declining home values, high unemployment, low consumer confidence and strict lending standards. The low housing starts and repair and remodeling activity has reduced lumber demand and therefore log demand. This has resulted in weak pricing for the logs and wood products we sell. We expect the prices for our logs and wood products to remain weak until there is a significant improvement in the number of U.S. housing starts, reduced levels of unemployment and a decline in the number of homes for sale. We use independent third party contract loggers and haulers to deliver our logs to our customers. As weak business conditions in the timber business have persisted for several years, there are fewer loggers and haulers available in certain markets to produce logs. While we have maintained strong working relationships with our loggers and haulers, when log markets improve there may be production and delivery constraints that could impact log prices and, potentially, our ability to benefit from these conditions by delivering logs. 22 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Over the past several years, fuel prices have fluctuated significantly. Our timber and manufacturing operations are significantly impacted by changing fuel prices. In 2008, our operating income was negatively affected by $23 million compared to 2007 due mostly to rising fuel costs. During 2009, operating income in our timber business was $36 million higher compared to the prior year due to lower fuel prices. During 2010, our operating income in our timber business was negatively impacted by $4 million compared to 2009 due to higher fuel prices. Oil prices have recently increased and could negatively impact our 2011 operating results. For example, national diesel prices averaged $2.99 per gallon during 2010, whereas national diesel prices averaged $3.09 per gallon at the end of 2010 and $3.36 per gallon in February 2011. HIGHER VALUE AND NON STRATEGIC TIMBERLANDS From time to time, we review our timberlands to identify properties that may have higher values other than as commercial timberlands (see discussion in Item 1 Real Estate Segment). We estimate that included in the companys 6.8 million acres of timberlands at December 31, 2010, are approximately 1.05 million acres of higher value timberlands which are expected to be sold, exchanged, and or developed over the next 15 years for recreational, conservation or residential purposes. Included within the 1.05 million acres of higher value timberlands are approximately 800,000 acres we expect to sell for recreational uses, approximately 150,000 acres we expect to sell for conservation and approximately 100,000 acres that are identified as having development potential. Furthermore, the company has approximately 300,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the near and medium term in smaller scale transactions (small non strategic). In addition to these 300,000 acres, we may make opportunistic sales of non strategic timberlands in larger blocks to commercial timberland buyers (large non strategic). Some of our real estate activities, including our real estate development business, are conducted through our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. In the meantime, all of our timberlands continue to be managed productively in our business of growing and selling timber. During 2010, we sold approximately 115,000 acres of conservation properties for $122 million compared to selling approximately 165,000 acres for $280 million in 2009. The primary reason for the decrease in conservation sales was due to the three phase sale of 310,000 acres in Montana for $489 million. The third phase covering approximately 70,000 acres for proceeds of $89 million closed during 2010, preceded by the second phase covering approximately 110,000 acres for proceeds of $250 million in 2009. The first phase covering approximately 130,000 acres for proceeds of $150 million closed in 2008. During 2010, we sold approximately 63,000 acres of small non strategic timberlands, approximately 115,000 acres for conservation purposes (including approximately 70,000 acres in connection with the third phase of our Montana sale), approximately 50,000 acres of higher and better use / recreational properties, and approximately 25,000 acres of large non strategic timberlands for total proceeds of $336 million. During 2011, we may adjust the type and geographic location of properties sold to respond to areas with active markets. We expect 2011 revenues from real estate sales to range between $250 million and $300 million, which may include timberlands that are less strategic to the company (large non strategic sales). Our land development business slowed dramatically starting in 2008 and has since remained weak. We expect proceeds from the sale of real estate development properties in 2011 to be comparable to the $3 million we recognized during 2010. We expect our real estate development business to remain weak until there is a significant improvement in consumer confidence, real estate values begin appreciating and financing becomes available for such properties. HARVEST LEVELS The volume of trees we harvest each year and the percentage of sawlogs and pulpwood (product mix) included in our annual harvest also impact our operating performance. During 2010, we harvested a total of 15.4 million tons compared to a total of 15.8 million tons during 2009. We expect total 2011 harvest levels and product mix to be comparable to our total 2010 harvest levels and product mix. While the company has flexibility to modify our annual harvest volumes, based on market conditions, we expect harvest levels to increase approximately 10% over the near term (next five years) and more than 30% over the long term (ten years). Future harvest levels may vary from historic or expected levels due to weaker or stronger than anticipated markets or other factors outside of our control, such as weather and fires. Future harvest levels may also be impacted by the acquisition of timberlands or the disposition of timberlands beyond the 1.35 million acres described above in the Higher Value and Non Strategic Timberlands section. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 23 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Under different assumptions or conditions, actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: REVENUE RECOGNITION FOR TIMBER SALES Timber sales revenues are recognized when legal ownership and the risk of loss transfer to the purchaser and the quantity sold is determinable. We sell timber under delivered log agreements and through sales of standing timber (or stumpage) using pay as cut sales contracts or timber deed sale agreements. (1) Delivered Log Sales. Under a delivered log sale agreement, we harvest the timber and deliver it to the buyer. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered as risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer. With delivered log sales, we incur the cost of logging and hauling. (2) Pay as Cut Sales Contracts. Pay as cut sales contracts are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each type of tree over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases, an advance is received in connection with pay as cut sales contracts. In other cases, the buyer agrees to harvest only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut sales contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue is recognized when the timber is harvested, as title and risk of loss has transferred to the buyer. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut sales contract is the total volume of wood removed multiplied by the unit price for each type of tree. (3) Timber Deeds. Timber deed sales are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber (i.e. mature pulpwood and or sawlogs) on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually less than 18 months). Unlike a pay as cut sales contract, risk of loss and title to the trees transfer to the buyer when the contract is signed. The buyer pays the full purchase price when the contract is signed and we do not have any additional performance obligations. Under a timber deed, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs and the timing of such activity. Revenue from a timber deed sale is recognized when the contract is signed because the earnings process is complete. Timber deeds are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise which is an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a timber deed is not dependent upon the volume or types of trees actually harvested. The following table summarizes amounts recognized under each method from sales to external customers in the companys consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2010 2009 Revenues from: Delivered log sales $ 486 $ 472 Pay as cut sales $ 30 $ 30 Timber deed sales $ 12 $ 5 Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, approximately 12% of our timber sales in 2010 and 11% of our timber sales in 2009 consisted of pay as cut sales contracts or timber deed sales. Since under sales of stumpage the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs, the operating profit as a percentage of revenue is typically higher in our Southern Resources Segment. REAL ESTATE SALES The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the ability of buyers to obtain financing, the number of competing properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding (especially for conservation sales). As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. 24 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 During 2010, the Real Estate Segment reported an operating profit percentage of approximately 54%. We estimate our Real Estate Segments annual operating profit percentage could range from 35% to 70% of revenues. The operating profit percentage depends on the nature of the interest sold and how much the market value of the property has risen over its book value. For example, sales of properties that have been held by the company for a long time (i.e. decades) will tend to have relatively higher operating profit percentages than properties that have been held by the company for shorter time periods. In contrast, the sale of conservation easements will generally have an operating profit percentage of close to 100% because historically no book basis was allocated to these types of sales. In general, timberlands are acquired primarily for long term use in our timber operations. In connection with timberland acquisitions, we are generally not able to identify, with any level of precision, our future real estate sales (i.e. specific properties with a higher value than for use in timber production). However, our purchase price allocation and related appraisals for these acquisitions may reflect greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future but are not yet specifically identified. Therefore, in connection with our purchase price allocation for timberland acquisitions, the greater values for real estate are allocated proportionately among all of the acres acquired. Specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. We believe that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS We evaluate our ability to recover the net investment in long lived assets when required by the accounting standards. We recognize an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets used in our business when the carrying value (net book value) of the assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to those assets over their expected useful life. Impairment losses are measured by the extent to which the carrying value of a group of assets exceeds the fair value of such assets at a given point in time. Generally, our fair value measurements used in calculating an impairment loss are categorized as Level 3 measurements (i.e. unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity) under the fair value hierarchy in the Accounting Standards Codification. Typically, we will use a discounted cash flow model or an external appraisal to estimate the fair value of the affected assets. Furthermore, we recognize an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of the assets exceeds an amount equal to their fair value less selling costs. The company has had a long history of acquiring timberlands. Management is required to estimate the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Subsequent to the original allocation, assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable through future operations. Our long lived assets are grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are independent cash flows. We track cash flows for our 6.8 million acres of timberlands by grouping them into seven geographic areas in the Northern Resources Segment and six geographic areas in the Southern Resources Segment. Additionally, we track cash flows for each of our eight manufacturing facilities. (1) Timber and Timberlands Used in Our Business. For assets used in our business, an impairment loss is recorded only when the carrying value of those assets is not recoverable through future operations. The recoverability test is based on undiscounted future cash flows over the expected life of the assets. We use one harvest cycle (which ranges between 20 and 90 years) for evaluating the recoverability of our timber and timberlands. Because of the inherently long life of timber and timberlands, we do not expect to incur an impairment loss in the future for the timber and timberlands used in our timber business. (2) Timber and Timberlands Held for Sale. An impairment loss is recognized for long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of those assets exceeds an amount equal to its fair value less selling costs. An asset is generally considered to be held for sale when we have committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition, we have initiated an active program to locate a buyer (e.g., listed with a broker), and the sale is expected to close within one year. During 2010, the above criteria were met by a number of our timberland properties, and we recognized impairment losses of $1 million for certain of these properties. Similarly, we recognized impairment losses of $3 million and $1 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, in connection with timberlands held for sale (see Notes 4 and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We expect to continue to sell or exchange timberlands to other forest products companies or non industrial buyers, and it is probable that we will recognize additional impairment losses in the future in connection with sales of timberlands. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 25 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 An impairment loss is generally not recorded until management expects that timberlands will be sold within the next 12 months. For many properties that are currently listed for sale, it is difficult to conclude whether they will be sold within one year and to estimate the price. Nevertheless, management performs a probability assessment for all properties that are listed for sale and records an impairment loss (to the extent the propertys book basis exceeds its estimated fair value net of selling cost) in the quarter in which management expects the property will be sold within twelve months. (3) Property, Plant and Equipment. The carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment represents primarily the net book value of our eight (two of which are indefinitely curtailed) manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable through future operations. The estimated future cash flows over the remaining useful life of a manufacturing facility is highly subjective and is dependent upon estimates for future product pricing, raw material costs and availability, volumes of product sold, and residual value of the facility. No impairment losses were recorded during 2010. During the first quarter of 2009, as a result of an analysis to rationalize and consolidate its lumber operations, the company recorded an impairment charge of $10 million related to certain lumber manufacturing assets. During 2008, we recognized an impairment loss of $10 million in connection with our lumber manufacturing assets. We currently estimate that the carrying value for our eight facilities is recoverable through future operations and that our estimate of future cash flows is reasonable. However, if wood product prices were to remain weak at current levels for an extended period of time, or if log or raw material availability declines, the company may be required to record an impairment loss for one or more of its manufacturing facilities in a future period. (4) Capitalized Real Estate Development Costs. Current and future costs associated with specific real estate development projects are capitalized once management has concluded it is probable that a project will be successful. Real estate development costs are expensed as incurred when management is not able to conclude that it is probable a project will be successful. Furthermore, previously capitalized costs for specific projects are written off when management revises its prior assessment and concludes that it is probable a project will not be successful and costs will not be recovered. For many of our projects, there is less judgment in making this determination due to prior experience in the local market or advice from consultants. However, for some of our larger projects where we have limited experience in the local market or for projects in environmentally sensitive areas, there is significant judgment in assessing the expected outcome for the projects. At December 31, 2010, we have $29 million of capitalized costs associated with projects that management expects will be successful. Of these capitalized costs, approximately $17 million represent costs for a single project that has been approved by a state commission but is being appealed in court by groups opposed to the project. While not expected, if the approval is reversed, some or all of these capitalized costs could be written off in the next twelve months. DEPLETION Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each geographic area are adjusted at least annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South to as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. 26 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 The following table summarizes depletion expense recognized in the companys financial statements, key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per ton amounts): 2010 2009 Depletion Expense Northern Resources Segment $ 18 $ 20 Southern Resources Segment 48 48 Total Depletion Expense $ 66 $ 68 Average Depletion Rates (per ton) Northern Resources Segment $ 4.61 $ 4.60 Southern Resources Segment $ 4.18 $ 4.25 Assumptions Used to Determine the Average Depletion Rates Estimated Future Silviculture Costs, including the Impact of Inflation Northern Resources Segment $ 49 $ 62 Southern Resources Segment (A) $ 531 $ 485 Estimated Future Volume (in million tons) Northern Resources Segment 269 271 Southern Resources Segment (B) 413 392 Sensitivity of Results to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in Depletion Expense for a 10%: Increase in Estimated Future Silviculture Costs (C) Northern Resources Segment $ 0.1 $ 0.1 Southern Resources Segment $ 1.5 $ 1.4 Decrease in Estimated Future Volume (D) Northern Resources Segment $ 1.9 $ 2.3 Southern Resources Segment $ 5.2 $ 5.3 (A) Reflects an increase in our estimates of future costs associated with fertilization treatments due to higher chemical and application costs and more acres treated. (B) Increase from 2009 is due primarily to an increase in our estimate of rotation length for certain stands and improved growth rates. (C) Assumes future timber volumes do not change. (D) Assumes future silviculture costs do not change. Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. We have invested in technology that enables us to predict our current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised at least annually, we do not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. ACCOUNTING FOR SHARE BASED COMPENSATION Plum Creek has a stockholder approved Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, value management awards and dividend equivalents. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 27 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Grants of value management awards are classified and accounted for as liabilities. As a result, the expense recognized over the performance period will equal the fair value (i.e., cash value) of an award as of the last day of the performance period multiplied by the number of awards that are earned. Furthermore, the quarterly expense recognized during the performance period is based on the fair value as of the end of the most recent quarter. Prior to the end of the performance period, compensation cost for value management awards is based on the awards most recent quarterly fair values and the number of months of service rendered during the performance period. Fair values for value management awards are computed based on our historical relative total shareholder return and simulated relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of peer groups consisting of forest products companies, the S&P 500 Index and the Morgan Stanley REIT Index over the same period (Peer Group). The simulated total shareholder return of the company and the Peer Group is computed using a Monte Carlo simulation. The key assumptions used in the simulation of the companys and the Peer Groups total shareholder return are volatility, beta (the measure of how Plum Creeks stock moves relative to the market as a whole) and risk free interest rate. The fair value of the liability for outstanding value management awards at December 31, 2010 was $2 million, which is based on the current fair value of outstanding awards multiplied by the percentage of months that services were provided during the performance period. The liability at December 31, 2010 could range between $0 and $13 million based on the possible fair value of all outstanding liability based awards. We could have a material adjustment to our share based compensation liability to the extent there is a material change in the fair value of our value management awards during the quarter. PENSIONS Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We maintain a qualified defined benefit pension plan and two supplemental (non qualified) defined benefit pension plans. Participants benefits vest after three years of service. The cash balance benefits for salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year Treasury bond rate. Participants who were employees of the company on September 1, 2000, earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance benefits or a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on the highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month out of the last 120 month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits to hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service. Plum Creeks contributions to its qualified pension plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year. It is generally the companys policy to fund the qualified pension plan annually such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plan was discontinued) over a market cycle (generally 3 to 5 years). The company has the same funding policy for the non qualified plan. However, assets related to the non qualified plans are held in a grantor trust and are subject to the claims of creditors and, therefore, are not considered plan assets. The computation of the companys benefit obligation, pension cost and accrued pension liability under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make certain assumptions involving primarily the following (weighted average rates): 2010 2009 Assumptions Used to Determine the Benefit Obligation at December 31 Discount Rates (A) Annuity Distributions 5.90 % 5.90 % Lump Sum Distributions 4.19 % 4.31 % Rate of Compensation Increase (B) 3.45 % 3.45 % Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost Discount Rate Annuity Distributions 5.90 % 6.85 % Lump Sum Distributions 4.31 % 4.35 % Expected Long Term Return on Plan Assets (C) 7.75 % 7.75 % Rate of Compensation Increase (B) 3.45 % 3.70 % 28 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 (A) The December 31, 2010 discount rate for annuity distributions was determined by the resulting yield of a hypothetical bond portfolio at December 31, 2010, matched to the expected benefit payments under the plans. Bonds selected for this portfolio had a Moodys or Standard & Poors credit rating of AA or better as of December 31, 2010. The December 31, 2010 discount rate for lump sum distributions is based on yields on 30 year U.S. Treasury bonds. (B) The assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels represents our long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations. (C) The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns on each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio. Since pension benefits may be settled in either a single lump sum or an annuity distribution, both the estimated percentage of participants electing a lump sum payment and the assumed interest rate (discount rate) used in computing the lump sum benefit are key assumptions. Management currently estimates that approximately half of the qualified plan participants will elect a lump sum distribution upon termination. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but which are nevertheless subject to uncertainty. It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets. The following table summarizes key financial measures and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2010 2009 Key Financial Measures Pension Expense (A) $ 8 $ 14 Cash Pension Plan Contributions Qualified Plan 4 10 Cash Grantor Trust Funding Supplemental Plans 1 3 Current Accrued Pension Liability 3 3 Non Current Accrued Pension Liability 26 31 Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in Pension Expense for Every 0.25 Percentage Point: Decrease in Long Term Rate of Return on Plan Assets $ 0.3 $ 0.3 Decrease in Weighted Average Discount Rate 0.6 0.7 Increase in Rate of Increase in Compensation Levels 0.2 0.2 Increase in Qualified Pension Funding (actuariallycomputed accumulated benefit obligation) for: Every 0.25 Percentage Point Decrease in the Weighted Average Discount Rate $ 3.3 $ 3.8 Every 0.25 Percentage Point Decrease in the Weighted Average Discount Rate Assumption for Lump Sum Benefits $ 1.3 $ 1.7 (A) Pension expense for 2009 includes a $5 million settlement loss recorded as a result of 2009 lump sum distributions for the year ended December 31, 2009. The settlement loss represents a partial recognition of the actuarial pension loss reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 7.75%, and weighted average discount rates of 5.90% for annuity distributions (and 4.19% for lump sum distributions) for 2011 and beyond, and a 3.45% rate of increase in compensation levels, we project our annual pension expense for 2011 will be approximately $9 million and will range between $7 million and $8 million each year for 2012 through 2015. Over the same time periods, the annual cash PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 29 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 funding required under our present funding policy and current funding rules for the qualified pension plan is expected to range between $0 and $6 million in 2011, and be approximately $5 million each year for 2012 through 2015. We expect to fund between $0 and $2 million in 2011 to our supplemental (non qualified) pension plans and approximately $1 million each year for 2012 through 2015. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The company has no off balance sheet debt. Our consolidated financial statements reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. The company has an equity investment in an unconsolidated entity, discussed below. Otherwise, the company has no other relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. In September 2010, the company entered into a purchase commitment to supply natural gas to our manufacturing facilities for the period November 2010 through March 2011. The contract is a derivative and at December 31, 2010, the fair value of the companys purchase obligation under this contract was $0.2 million. The company is not a party to any other derivative transactions. On October 1, 2008, the company contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands located in its Southern Resources Segment to a timberland venture in exchange for an equity interest. The company accounts for its interests under the equity method of accounting. See Notes 16 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2010 (in millions): Payment Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less Than1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than5 Years Long Term Debt (A) $ 2,365 $ 172 $ 736 $ 737 $ 720 Note Payable to Timberland Venture (B) 1,245 58 116 116 955 Operating Lease Obligations 14 3 6 4 1 Timber Obligations 6 1 1 4 Long Term Incentive Plans 2 2 Purchase Obligations (C) 159 65 40 14 40 Other Long Term Liabilities (D) Total Contractual Obligations $ 3,791 $ 299 $ 901 $ 871 $ 1,720 (A) In addition to principal, long term debt includes related interest obligations based on the coupon or stated interest rate for our fixed rate debt and the variable interest rate as of December 31, 2010 of 0.72% for our $350 million term credit agreement. Interest obligations are $77 million (Less than one year), $133 million (1 3 years), $106 million (3 5 years), and $141 million (More than 5 years). As we expect borrowings outstanding under our line of credit to vary, only repayment of the principal is included. In 2010, interest expense related to our line of credit was less than $1 million. (B) On October 1, 2008, the company borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture (a related party). The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. Interest obligations are $58 million (Less than one year), $116 million (1 3 years), $116 million (3 5 years), and $172 million (More than 5 years). (C) Purchase obligations are comprised primarily of $62 million for timber harvest contracts, $48 million for long term timber leases, $38 million for fiber supply agreements to supply our manufacturing facilities, $5 million for raw materials for our MDF facilities, $2 million for road maintenance agreements and $2 million for third party logs for our plywood and sawmill facilities. (D) We have not included any amounts for our other long term liabilities, as we cannot estimate when we will be obligated to satisfy these liabilities. At December 31, 2010, other long term liabilities include workers compensation of $10 million, deferred compensation obligations of $5 million and non qualified pension obligations of $29 million (including $3 million classified as a current liability). We expect to fund approximately $2 million for workers compensation payments in 2011. We have two grantor trusts, which hold assets associated with our deferred compensation obligations and non qualified pension obligations. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of assets in one of our grantor trusts is approximately equal to our deferred compensation obligation of $5 million. The December 31, 2010 fair value of assets in the other grantor trust was approximately $30 million and the actuarially 30 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 computed accumulated benefit obligation for our non qualified pension plans was $25 million. Assets in our grantor trusts have been reserved for the above obligations. However, grantor trust assets are subject to the claims of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. Additionally, based on current interest rates and expected returns, the company expects 2011 contributions to the qualified pension plan to range between $0 and $6 million and between $0 and $2 million for the supplemental (non qualified) pension plans. See Notes 10 and 12 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements. Events and Trends Affecting Operating Results HARVEST PLANS We determine our annual timber (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a contiguous block of trees of a similar age, species mix or silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 100,000 to almost 1 million acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, certain external conditions such as supply agreements, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Harvest scheduling is the technical approach using computer modeling that considers all of the above factors along with forest growth rates and financial assumptions to project future harvest plans for a number of years forward. Our actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. Furthermore, future harvest levels will be impacted by sales and purchases of timberlands. The impact will depend on the level and extent we are able to reinvest proceeds in productive timberlands and the stocking levels and age class distribution of any newly acquired timberlands. Northern Resources Segment. Harvest levels were 4.0 million tons (54% sawlogs and 46% pulpwood) during 2010 and 4.4 million tons (49% sawlogs and 51% pulpwood) during 2009. Pulpwood harvest volumes were lower in 2010 compared to the prior year due primarily to temporary increases in harvest levels in prior years to capture favorable pulpwood prices. We expect 2011 harvest levels and product mix (i.e., the percentage of sawlogs vs. pulpwood) to be comparable to our 2010 harvest levels and product mix. While the company has flexibility to modify our annual harvest volumes, based on market conditions, we expect harvest levels beyond 2011 to be at moderately higher levels over the near term (next five years) and increase more than 20% over the long term (ten years and beyond) and we expect the product mix to improve to approximately 65% sawlogs. Southern Resources Segment. Harvest levels were 11.5 million tons (44% sawlogs and 56% pulpwood) during 2010 and 11.4 million tons (39% sawlogs and 61% pulpwood) during 2009. In 2011, we expect harvest volumes and product mix (i.e. the percentage of sawlogs vs. pulpwood) to be comparable to our 2010 harvest volumes and product mix. While the company has flexibility to modify our annual harvest volumes, based on market conditions, we expect harvest levels beyond 2011 to be at moderately higher levels over the near term (next five years) and increase more than 35% over the long term (ten years and beyond) and we expect the product mix to improve to approximately 50% sawlogs. CONSERVATION SALES IN THE REAL ESTATE SEGMENT During 2008, we signed an agreement to sell approximately 310,000 acres of timberlands in Montana in our Northern Resources Segment for $489 million in three phases. As a result, our revenues and cash flows for the years in which each closing occurred were significantly improved by this multi phase transaction. At present, we do not expect to have transactions of similar magnitude in 2011. The table below summarizes revenue recognized, operating income and acres sold by Plum Creek for this transaction (dollars in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Montana Conservation Transaction Revenue $ 89 $ 250 $ 150 Operating Income 37 162 74 Acres 70,000 112,000 130,000 PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 31 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS SEGMENT PRODUCTION LEVELS The results of our Manufactured Products Segment are driven largely by the strength of the U.S. housing market, which has been declining since 2007. Although housing starts improved modestly in 2010 from 2009 (a 6% increase), current levels of approximately 600,000 starts per year remain significantly below historical averages achieved in the previous decade of approximately 1.7 million starts per year. During 2009, we permanently closed two lumber mills, indefinitely suspended production at one additional lumber mill and one remanufacturing facility and reduced production at another lumber mill. We have also reduced production at our MDF and plywood facilities in response to the decline in demand. During 2010, we continued to operate all of our Manufactured Products facilities at reduced levels similar to 2009. Until markets for wood products improve, our expected production levels (and sales volumes) will be significantly lower than both the combined capacity of our facilities and historical operating rates. U.S. CANADA SOFTWOOD LUMBER AGREEMENT Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. In 2006, the Softwood Lumber Agreement (SLA) was signed by the U.S. and Canada establishing a system of tiered taxes and or volume restrictions that will be in effect for a period of seven years. Generally, the SLA provides that no import restrictions would be imposed on Canadian lumber shipments to the U.S. when the published composite price for lumber is higher than $355 (per thousand board feet). Below that level, a system of tiered export tax and or volume restrictions would be triggered. The impact of the taxes could be mitigated by fluctuations in the rate of exchange between U.S. and Canadian dollars. Notwithstanding the signing of the SLA between the U.S. and Canadian governments, there can be no assurance it will effectively create a fair trade environment. Therefore, when demand for wood products in the U.S. improves, downward pressure on domestic timber and lumber prices caused by Canadian imports could increase. COMPARABILITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PERIODS Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. There were no significant timberland acquisitions during 2010 and 2009. During 2008, we acquired 147,000 acres of timberlands, located primarily in Georgia, Vermont and Oregon. During 2010, we sold approximately 258,000 acres of timberland; during 2009, we sold approximately 297,000 acres of timberland; and during 2008 we sold approximately 314,000 acres. Additionally during 2008, approximately 454,000 acres located in the Southern Resources Segment were contributed to a timberland venture in exchange for an equity interest. As a result of these timberland transactions, our ownership was approximately 6.8 million acres at December 31, 2010; approximately 7 million acres at December 31, 2009; and approximately 7.4 million acres at December 31, 2008. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of timberland acquisitions and divestitures. 32 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Results of Operations The following table compares Operating Income (Loss) by Segment and other items impacting our income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Operating Income (Loss) by Segment Northern Resources $ 13 $ (3 ) $ 41 Southern Resources 107 81 128 Real Estate 180 278 245 Manufactured Products 24 (23 ) (44 ) Other 23 17 23 Total Segment Operating Income 347 350 393 Other Costs and Eliminations (51 ) (51 ) (64 ) Other Unallocated Operating Income (Expense), net 1 (1 ) Operating Income 297 299 328 Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture 57 55 15 Interest Expense, net (Debt Obligations to Unrelated Parties) 80 89 134 Interest Expense (Note Payable to Timberland Venture) 58 58 14 Gain (Loss) on Extinguishment of Debt (13 ) (2 ) 11 Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes 1 (31 ) (27 ) Income from Continuing Operations $ 202 $ 236 $ 233 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Northern Resources Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Sawlog ($/Ton Delivered) 2.134 $ 63 2.137 $ 55 Pulpwood ($/Ton Delivered) 1.823 $ 39 2.268 $ 40 Total 3.957 4.405 Revenues decreased by $2 million to $210 million in 2010. Revenues were slightly lower compared to 2009 as higher sawlog prices ($18 million) were offset by lower pulpwood volumes ($18 million) and lower pulpwood prices ($2 million). Sawlog prices were 15% higher in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was due primarily to improvement in demand during the spring building season as a result of low mill log inventories and improving lumber and plywood prices. Additionally, sawlog prices in the Northwestern U.S. have also been favorably impacted by increased lumber production compared to 2009 and improved export demand for sawlogs (primarily from China). However, sawlog prices remained relatively weak during most of 2010 due to near record low housing starts as a result of an excess supply of homes for sale and high unemployment. Pulpwood harvest volumes were 20% lower due primarily to temporary increases in harvest levels in prior years to capture favorable pulpwood prices. In 2010 and 2009, we deferred a portion of the sawlog harvest in Oregon due to weak demand and prices. In 2011, we expect harvest volumes and product mix (i.e. the percentage of sawlogs vs. pulpwood) to be comparable to our 2010 harvest volumes and product mix. Northern Resources Segment operating income was $13 million for 2010 compared to an operating loss of $3 million in 2009. This increase of $16 million was due primarily to higher sawlog prices. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $18 million, or 8%, to $197 million due primarily to lower harvest volumes and lower forest management and administrative expenses. Various forest management and administrative expenses have decreased by 14% ($4 million) due primarily to cost reduction initiatives and timberland dispositions. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 33 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Southern Resources Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Sawlog ($/Ton Stumpage) 5.021 $ 23 4.402 $ 22 Pulpwood ($/Ton Stumpage) 6.446 $ 12 6.999 $ 10 Total 11.467 11.401 Revenues increased by $30 million, or 9%, to $377 million in 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was due primarily to higher sawlog harvest volumes ($22 million), higher pulpwood prices ($15 million), and higher sawlog prices ($3 million), partially offset by lower pulpwood harvest volumes ($13 million). Sawlog harvest volumes increased by approximately 600,000 tons, or 14%, and pulpwood harvest volumes decreased by approximately 600,000 tons, or 8%, compared to 2009 due primarily to a shift in standing inventory. During the past several years, we have concentrated on thinning young timber stands (i.e. first thinnings) to maintain vigorous growth rates and to capture favorable pulpwood prices. The timber harvested from these first thinnings is predominately pulpwood. During 2010, a greater proportion of our harvest volume was from more mature timber stands that contained both pulpwood and small diameter sawlogs. In 2011, we expect harvest volumes and product mix (i.e. the percentage of sawlogs vs. pulpwood) to be comparable to our 2010 harvest volumes and product mix. Pulpwood prices were 16% higher on a stumpage basis (11% higher on a delivered basis) during 2010 compared to the prior year due primarily to a temporary shortage of logs and improved demand. Throughout most of the U.S. South, pulpwood was in short supply during the first half of 2010 due to extremely wet weather conditions. However, as a result of our extensive ownership, we were able to deliver logs when other timberland owners had to curtail log production. During 2010, the demand for pulpwood remained favorable due primarily to the improvement in global economic conditions, a reduced supply of wood chips from solid wood products manufacturers, and the temporary supply chain disruption of market pulp as a result of the February 2010 earthquake in Chile. Nevertheless, pulpwood prices during the fourth quarter of 2010 declined to $10 per ton; the same average sales price realized during the fourth quarter of 2009 due to favorable harvesting conditions (dry weather) and high mill log inventories. Sawlog prices were generally weak during most of 2010 due to near record low housing starts as a result of an excess supply of homes for sale and high unemployment. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 28% of its revenues for 2010 and 23% for 2009. This increase was due primarily to higher pulpwood prices and higher sawlog volumes. Segment costs and expenses increased by $4 million, or 2%, to $270 million. Real Estate Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2010 Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Property AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenue per Acre Small Non Strategic 63,235 $ 61 $ 970 19,620 $ 19 $ 950 Large Non Strategic 24,310 32 1,320 59,160 38 650 Conservation 116,105 122 1,050 165,855 280 1,690 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 53,265 114 2,140 50,275 112 2,235 Development Properties 845 3 3,415 2,060 12 5,520 Conservation Easements 4 455 Subtotal 257,760 336 296,970 461 Revenue from Non Cash Exchange 20,600 25 1,205 Total 257,760 $ 336 317,570 $ 486 Revenues decreased by $150 million to $336 million in 2010. This decrease is due primarily to lower revenues from sales of conservation properties ($158 million) and revenue realized on a non cash exchange valued at $25 million in 2009, offset in part by an increase in the number of acres of small non strategic land sales ($42 million). 34 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Revenues from the sale of conservation properties decreased due primarily to selling fewer acres associated with a three phase transaction in Montana. The third phase of approximately 70,000 acres in Montana closed during 2010 for approximately $89 million. The second phase was during 2009 for approximately 112,000 acres in Montana for $250 million. The first phase was during 2008 and conveyed approximately 130,000 acres in Montana for $150 million. Conservation sales vary significantly from period to period and are primarily impacted by government and not for profit funding, the limited number of conservation buyers, and the timing of our transactions. Additionally, the price per acre for conservation properties can vary significantly due to the geographic location and the rationale for the conservation designation. The increase in small non strategic acres sold during 2010 compared to 2009 was due primarily to an unusually large sale during 2010 when a collection of approximately 23,000 acres were sold to a single buyer. From time to time, we may dispose of large blocks of timberlands to maximize value (large non strategic) such as the 24,000 acres we sold during 2010 in Louisiana for $32 million and nearly 60,000 acres in Wisconsin we sold during 2009 for $38 million. Additionally, during 2009, we completed a non cash exchange of land with the State of Washington. We recognized $25 million of revenue which represents the fair value of the lands we received. No operating income was recognized for the transaction as the book value of the timberlands we disposed of approximated the exchange value of $25 million. Revenues from higher and better use / recreational land sales were generally comparable between 2010 and the prior year. However, average sales realization decreased by 4% due primarily to our continued focus on selling lower valued recreational properties. The demand for higher valued recreational properties remains weak due to concern over near term real estate values, low consumer confidence, and the inability of buyers to secure debt financing. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the ability of buyers to obtain financing, the number of competing properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding (especially for conservation sales). Also, in any period the sales average will vary based on the location and physical characteristics of the parcels sold. We expect revenues from real estate sales during 2011 to range between $250 million and $300 million, which may include timberlands that are less strategic to the company (large non strategic sales). The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 54% for the period ended December 31, 2010 compared to 57% for the same period in 2009. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses decreased by $52 million to $156 million in 2010 due primarily to selling fewer acres. Manufactured Products Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Sales Volume Average SalesRealization (A) Sales Volume Average SalesRealization (A) Lumber 116,090 MBF $ 507 164,512 MBF $ 397 Plywood 172,716 MSF $ 378 154,918 MSF $ 357 Fiberboard 157,017 MSF $ 606 132,092 MSF $ 597 (A) Represents product prices at mill level Revenues increased by $20 million, or 8%, to $265 million in 2010. This increase was due primarily to higher MDF sales volume ($16 million), higher lumber prices ($8 million), and higher plywood sales volume ($7 million), offset in part by lower lumber sales volume ($13 million). MDF sales volume increased by 19% in 2010 compared to 2009 due primarily to increased demand. During 2010, when seasonal demand in the U.S. was increasing, the global supply of MDF was temporarily disrupted due to the February 2010 earthquake in Chile. In addition, the weaker U.S. dollar reduced MDF imports to the U.S. MDF demand is expected to remain weak until the U.S. housing market recovers and global economic conditions improve. As a result of the limited demand, we continue to produce at approximately 60% of capacity. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 35 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Lumber sales prices were 28% higher during 2010 due primarily to limited supply, a temporary increase in demand and the closure and curtailment of our mills in 2009, which generally sold a lower value product. The supply of lumber was constrained due to extensive mill curtailments and weather related log shortages, primarily during the first half of 2010. The temporary improvement in demand was primarily due to the restocking of lumber inventories in anticipation of the 2010 spring building season. Lumber prices peaked during the second quarter of 2010 but have since declined as demand for housing remains weak. U.S. housing starts were 588,000 for all of 2010, a 6% increase from the 554,000 starts in 2009 (a record low since 1945). Housing starts for 2011 are forecasted to improve only modestly to between 650,000 and 700,000, remaining well below the average annual starts of 1.7 million earlier in the previous decade. Additionally, repair and remodel activity in the U.S. improved modestly during 2010 (3%) and is expected to post similar improvements in 2011, but still remains over 20% below peak levels in the prior decade. Lumber sales volume declined 29% during 2010 due primarily to curtailed production. During 2009, we permanently closed two lumber mills and indefinitely suspended production at two other lumber mills as a result of historically low housing starts. Plywood sales volume was 12% higher during 2010 due primarily to increased demand. The supply of plywood was temporarily constrained in 2010 due to a decline in imports as a result of the impact of the February 2010 earthquake in Chile. Demand for plywood is expected to remain weak until economic conditions in the U.S. improve. As a result of the limited demand, we continue to produce at approximately 60% of capacity. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was $24 million for 2010 compared to an operating loss of $23 million for 2009. This increase in operating performance was due primarily to impairments, write downs, severance and pension settlement charges recorded in 2009 ($20 million), improved product prices, primarily lumber, and various cost saving initiatives ($4 million). During 2009, we recorded a lumber mill impairment ($10 million), a related write down of spare parts ($2 million), a write down of mill inventories ($2 million), severance charges ($2 million), and pension settlement charges ($4 million). For the past year, we have been aggressively managing discretionary manufacturing costs at all of our mills to improve operating performance. See Note 5 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements for discussion of the mill impairment. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $27 million, or 10%, to $241 million for 2010 due primarily to no impairments, write downs, severance charges, or pension settlement charges, lower lumber production in 2010, and various cost saving initiatives, offset in part by higher MDF sales volume. Other Segment. Operating income increased $6 million to $23 million in 2010 due primarily to a $5 million operating gain in connection with the termination of a land lease in 2010. The $5 million is recorded in our Other Segment since the consideration was primarily for the release of mineral rights and is reported as Other Operating Income (Expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income. During the first quarter of 2010, we received cash proceeds of $21 million for the sale of an undivided 50% interest in mineral rights (natural gas reserves on properties located in West Virginia) and to amend an agreement covering existing exploration rights. We allocated $11 million to the sale of mineral rights and $10 million to the modification of exploration rights. The sale of mineral rights is reported as Gain on Sale of Properties, net of tax in our Consolidated Statements of Income and was not included in the Other Segments operating income. The remaining consideration of $10 million related to the modified exploration rights, along with the remaining deferred revenue at the time of the modification of $12 million associated with the original granting of exploration rights in 2008, is being amortized into revenue of the Other Segment over the expected three year term. See Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other costs and eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $51 million in both 2010 and 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Corporate overhead costs along with Segment specific selling, general, and administrative costs are reported in total on our Consolidated Statements of Income and decreased operating income by $95 million in 2010 and by $106 million in 2009. This decrease in expense of $11 million was due primarily to lower share based compensation expense ($7 million) and lower severance charges ($4 million). The decrease in share based compensation expense is due to a decrease in the fair value of our value management plan awards in 2010. We adjust the fair value of our liability associated with our value management plan quarterly based on our relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of several peer groups. Interest Expense, net. Interest expense, net of interest income, decreased $9 million, or 6%, to $138 million in 2010. This decrease was due primarily to debt retirements, including both maturing borrowings and prepayments, of Senior Notes (fixed rate debt) in 2009 and 2010. While these retirements reduced average outstanding debt levels in 2010 36 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 compared to 2009, a portion of the retirements were refinanced with our line of credit at significantly lower interest rates. Interest expense for both periods included $58 million related to our Note Payable to Timberland Venture. In November 2010, we issued $575 million aggregate principal amount of 4.70% Senior Notes. With the proceeds from this borrowing, we prepaid Senior Notes (with higher interest rates) that were scheduled to mature in 2011, retired our $250 million term credit agreement (scheduled to mature in 2012), and reduced outstanding borrowings on our line of credit. As a result, we expect interest expense in 2011 to be similar to 2010 interest expense. Gain (Loss) on Extinguishment of Debt. In 2010, we made prepayments of approximately $226 million to retire $213 million of principal for debt due in 2011. These prepayments were at a premium and as a result, we recognized a loss in 2010 of $13 million. In 2009, we made debt principal prepayments at a slight premium resulting in a $2 million loss. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $1 million for 2010 compared to a benefit for income taxes of $31 million for 2009. The decrease in the tax benefit of $32 million is due primarily to improved results in our manufacturing business which increased operating income by $47 million during 2010 compared to 2009 (resulting in $19 million higher tax expense in 2010). Additionally, in 2009, we recorded a tax benefit related to the reversal of $5 million of previously accrued built in gains tax and a reduction to our deferred tax liability of $3 million, compared to a reduction to our deferred tax liability of $1 million during 2010. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2010, we have recorded deferred tax assets of $54 million and deferred tax liabilities of $37 million. We have not recorded a valuation allowance in connection with our deferred tax asset of $54 million. A valuation allowance is recognized if it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Management believes that due to either the reversal of various timing differences or the planned execution of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies, sufficient taxable income can be generated to fully utilize the companys deferred tax assets. Gain on Sale of Properties, net of tax. During 2010, we sold an undivided 50% interest in mineral rights (natural gas reserves) on properties located in West Virginia for $11 million. See Other Segment above for detailed discussion of the transaction. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Northern Resources Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Sawlog ($/Ton Delivered) 2.137 $ 55 3.366 $ 69 Pulpwood ($/Ton Delivered) 2.268 $ 40 2.616 $ 43 Total 4.405 5.982 Revenues decreased by $135 million, or 39%, to $212 million in 2009. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog harvest volumes ($83 million), lower sawlog prices ($32 million), lower pulpwood harvest volumes ($15 million) and lower pulpwood prices ($7 million). Total harvest volumes for 2009 decreased by 26% compared to 2008. Sawlog harvest volumes were 37% lower compared to 2008 due primarily to harvest deferrals as a result of weak log prices, along with accelerated sawlog harvest volumes in prior years to take advantage of favorable prices, and timberland sales. Revenues associated with our Montana mills declined $42 million in 2009 due to mill closures and curtailments. Pulpwood harvest volumes were 13% lower due primarily to temporary increases in harvest levels in 2008 to capture favorable pulpwood prices and recent timberland sales. Sawlog prices were 21% lower in 2009 compared to 2008 due primarily to the decline in housing starts as a result of the 2009 recession in the U.S. Demand for wood products in 2009 decreased significantly as housing starts declined approximately 40% from 2008 levels and declined almost 70% from average annual starts earlier in the decade. Pulpwood prices were 7% lower as compared to 2008 as a result of the 2009 global recession which reduced the demand for paper and packaging materials. Northern Resources Segment operating loss was $3 million for 2009 compared to operating income of $41 million in 2008. This decrease of $44 million was due primarily to weaker sawlog prices and lower harvest volumes. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $91 million, or 30%, to $215 million due primarily to lower harvest volumes, lower log PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 37 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 and haul rates per ton and lower forest management and administrative expenses. Log and haul rates per ton decreased 12% ($18 million) due primarily to lower fuel costs. Various forest management and administrative expenses have decreased by 13% ($7 million) due primarily to cost reduction initiatives and timberland dispositions. Southern Resources Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Sawlog ($/Ton Stumpage) 4.402 $ 22 5.570 $ 26 Pulpwood ($/Ton Stumpage) 6.999 $ 10 8.027 $ 10 Total 11.401 13.597 Revenues decreased by $114 million, or 25%, to $347 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog harvest volumes ($51 million), lower pulpwood harvest volumes ($26 million), lower sawlog prices ($21 million) and lower pulpwood prices ($16 million). During the fourth quarter of 2008, we contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands in our Southern Resources Segment to Southern Diversified Timber, LLC (the Timberland Venture). Excluding the 0.690 million tons of sawlogs harvested in the first nine months of 2008 related to the Timberland Venture properties, sawlog harvest volumes decreased by 10% due primarily to harvest deferrals as a result of weak log prices and limited demand due to mill closures and curtailments. Excluding the 0.667 million tons of pulpwood harvested in the first nine months of 2008 related to the Timberland Venture properties, pulpwood harvest volumes decreased by 5% due primarily to temporarily increasing harvest levels in 2008 to capture favorable pulpwood prices. Sawlog prices on a stumpage basis were 16% lower in 2009 compared to 2008 due primarily to the decline in housing starts as a result of the 2009 recession in the U.S. Sawlog prices on a delivered basis decreased by 13%. Demand for wood products in 2009 decreased significantly as housing starts declined approximately 40% from 2008 levels and declined almost 70% from average annual starts earlier in the decade. Pulpwood prices were 5% lower on a stumpage basis (9% lower on a delivered basis) during 2009 compared to the prior year as a result of the global recession which reduced the demand for paper and packaging materials. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 23% of its revenues for 2009 and 28% for 2008. This decrease was due primarily to weaker sawlog and pulpwood prices and lower harvest volumes, offset in part by lower fuel costs, forest management and administrative expenses. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $67 million, or 20%, to $266 million. This decrease was due primarily to lower harvest levels, lower log and haul rates per ton and lower forest management and administrative expenses. Log and haul rates per ton decreased 16% ($18 million) due primarily to lower fuel costs. Various forest management and administrative expenses have decreased by 14% ($10 million) due primarily to cost reduction initiatives and timberland dispositions. Real Estate Segment. Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 Property AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre Small Non Strategic 19,620 $ 19 $ 950 92,285 $ 89 $ 965 Large Non Strategic 59,160 38 650 Conservation 165,855 280 1,690 175,740 200 1,140 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 50,275 112 2,235 45,610 136 2,975 Development Properties 2,060 12 5,520 820 7 8,770 Subtotal 296,970 461 314,455 432 Revenue from Non Cash Exchange 20,600 25 1,205 Total 317,570 $ 486 314,455 $ 432 Revenues increased by $54 million to $486 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This increase is due primarily to higher revenues from sales of conservation properties ($80 million), revenue of $38 million from selling nearly 60,000 large, 38 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 non strategic acres in Wisconsin, revenue from a non cash exchange valued at $25 million, increase in the number of acres of higher and better use/recreational properties sold ($14 million), offset in part by a decrease in the number of acres of small non strategic land sales ($70 million) and lower prices from higher and better use / recreational properties ($37 million). Revenues from the sale of conservation properties increased due primarily to the sale of approximately 112,000 acres in Montana for $250 million during 2009. The $250 million conservation sale during 2009 was the second in a three phase transaction. The first phase was during 2008 and conveyed approximately 130,000 acres in Montana for $150 million. The third phase of approximately 70,000 acres in Montana closed in 2010 for approximately $89 million. Conservation sales vary significantly from period to period and are primarily impacted by government and not for profit funding, the limited number of conservation buyers, and the timing of our transactions. Additionally, the price per acre for conservation properties can vary significantly due to the geographic location and the rationale for the conservation designation. From time to time, we may dispose of larger blocks of other timberlands to maximize value, such as the 60,000 acres in Wisconsin we sold during 2009. Additionally, during 2009, we completed a non cash exchange of land with the State of Washington. We recognized $25 million of revenue which represents the fair value of the lands we received. No operating income was recognized in the transaction as the book value of the timberlands we disposed of approximated the exchange value of $25 million. Our average sales price per acre for higher and better use / recreational lands decreased approximately 25% during 2009 compared to 2008 due primarily to selling more of our lower valued recreational properties. In the latter part of 2008, we began selling more of our lower valued recreational properties as demand and price for properties with a higher value per acre significantly weakened. The weaker demand for higher valued recreational properties was due primarily to the decline in consumer discretionary capital, declining consumer confidence and the inability of buyers to secure debt financing during 2009. Consequently, we increased our sales in regions with lower per acre prices. The number of higher and better / use recreational properties sold during 2009 increased by 10% compared to 2008 due primarily to our focus on listing more lower valued properties. The decrease in small non strategic acres sold during 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to our declining number of small non strategic properties. However, during the fourth quarter of 2009 in connection with our periodic review of our timberland portfolio, we identified approximately 100,000 additional acres of small non strategic properties. Additionally, the timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the ability of buyers to obtain financing, the number of competing properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding (especially for conservation sales). Also, in any period the sales average will vary based on the location and physical characteristics of the parcels sold. The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 57% for the periods ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $21 million to $208 million in 2009 compared to 2008. Manufactured Products Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Sales Volume Average SalesRealization (A) Sales Volume Average SalesRealization (A) Lumber 164,512 MBF $ 397 289,833 MBF $ 371 Plywood 154,918 MSF $ 357 236,983 MSF $ 397 Fiberboard 132,092 MSF $ 597 197,431 MSF $ 604 (A) Represents product prices at mill level Revenues decreased by $160 million, or 40%, to $245 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower MDF sales volumes ($40 million), lower lumber sales volumes ($38 million), lower plywood sales volumes ($33 million), lower wood chips and residuals sales ($7 million) and lower plywood prices ($6 million). Additionally, freight charges (which is a component of both Revenues and Cost of Goods Sold) decreased by $21 million compared to 2008 due to significantly lower sales volume. External sales of wood chips and residuals were lower due primarily to production curtailments at regional mills. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 39 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 MDF sales volume decreased by 33% in 2009 compared to 2008. MDF demand weakened considerably during 2009. The weaker demand was due primarily to the significant decline in housing starts and related construction activity along with increased competition from foreign MDF manufacturers and new domestic production. While global MDF capacity increased an estimated 13% during 2009, total North American MDF consumption decreased approximately 23% during the same year. Lumber sales volume declined 43% during 2009 due primarily to the weak demand as a result of declining housing starts. Housing starts for 2009 were 554,000 homes (a record low since 1945) compared to 905,000 homes in 2008 and average annual starts of 1.7 million earlier in the decade. As a result of the weak outlook for housing starts, we permanently closed two lumber mills, indefinitely curtailed production at one additional mill and one remanufacturing facility and reduced production at another mill during 2009. The higher lumber sales realization resulted from curtailing production of our least valuable lumber products. Prices for all lumber products declined during 2009. Plywood sales volume was 35% lower during 2009 due primarily to weak demand in specialty markets, such as recreational vehicle, transportation and concrete forming applications, as a result of the 2009 recession in the U.S. The demand for our plywood products was also negatively impacted due to increased competition from commodity plywood manufacturers as a result of the depressed housing market. The weaker demand and increased competition caused our plywood sales realization to decline in 2009. Manufactured Products Segment operating loss was $23 million for 2009 compared to an operating loss of $44 million for 2008. The operating loss was lower in 2009 due primarily to write downs for inventories and purchase log commitments ($16 million) in 2008 and, to a lesser extent, improvements from cost reductions and lower operating levels. Operating results for both 2008 and 2009 were negatively impacted by $10 million impairment charges. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $181 million, or 40%, to $268 million for 2009. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber, plywood and MDF sales volume and lower costs for MDF raw materials. MDF raw material costs decreased by $10 million due primarily to lower resin and wood chip prices. Other Segment. Revenues decreased by $7 million, or 28%, to $18 million in 2009. This decrease was due primarily to lower gas royalties (both price and volume) due primarily to lower gas prices in 2009. On average, gas prices declined 52% in 2009 compared to 2008. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other costs and eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $51 million during 2009 and by $64 million during 2008. The decrease in expenses of $13 million was due primarily to corporate cost reduction initiatives and reduced incentive compensation ($7 million), lower share based compensation expense ($3 million), lower depreciation on information technology assets ($2 million) and higher legal and other advisory costs incurred in 2008 related to the Timberland Venture transaction ($1 million). The decrease in share based compensation expense is due to a decrease in the fair value of our value management plan awards in 2009. We adjust the fair value of our liability associated with our value management plan quarterly based on our relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of several peer groups. Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture. On October 1, 2008, we contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands to Southern Diversified Timber, LLC (the Timberland Venture) in exchange for a common and preferred interest. Both interests are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. During 2009, we recorded our share of equity earnings from the Timberland Venture of $55 million, which includes amortization ($7 million increase in equity earnings) of the difference between the book value of the companys investment and its proportionate share of the Timberland Ventures net assets. We received cash distributions of $53 million from the Timberland Venture during 2009. During 2008, we recorded equity earnings from the Timberland Venture of $15 million, which includes amortization of basis difference of $1 million. We did not receive any cash distributions from the Timberland Venture during 2008. See Notes 16 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Expense, net (Debt Obligations to Unrelated Parties). Interest expense, net of interest income, for debt obligations to unrelated parties decreased $45 million, or 34%, to $89 million in 2009. This decrease was due primarily to lower borrowings outstanding for 2009 compared to 2008 ($33 million) and lower interest rates on our variable rate debt ($12 million) during 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we paid down approximately $420 million of debt, consisting of $219 million of debt principal payments and a $201 million reduction of outstanding borrowings on our line of credit. During 2009, we made principal payments on our Senior Notes totaling $272 million of which $89 million was 40 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 funded by increased borrowing on our line of credit. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate for the borrowings on the line of credit was 0.63%. Interest Expense (Note Payable to Timberland Venture). On October 1, 2008, we borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture (a related party) for a ten year term at a fixed annual interest rate of 7.375%. During 2009, we recorded $58 million of interest expense related to the note. During 2008, we recorded $14 million of interest expense related to the note. Gain (Loss) on Extinguishment of Debt. In 2009, we made debt principal prepayments at a slight premium resulting in a $2 million loss. In 2008, we paid approximately $50 million to retire $62 million of principal for debt due in 2015. As a result, we recognized a gain in 2008 of $11 million which was net of the associated unamortized discount and debt issuance costs. Benefit for Income Taxes. The benefit for income taxes was $31 million for 2009 compared to a benefit for income taxes of $27 million for 2008. The increase in the tax benefit of $4 million is due primarily to the reversal of $5 million in 2009 of built in gains tax that was accrued in 2008 (change of $10 million) and a reduction to our deferred tax liability ($3 million). See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These tax benefits were partially offset by lower losses at our taxable REIT subsidiaries in 2009, primarily in our manufacturing business, which resulted in a lower tax benefit of $7 million. Financial Condition and Liquidity Our cash flows from operations are impacted by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry and by general economic conditions in the United States, including interest rate levels and availability of financing. We generate cash primarily from sales of delivered logs and standing timber, sales of our finished manufactured wood products, and sales of our timberlands. Our principal cash requirements are primarily for: expenditures for logging and hauling of logs, employee compensation and related benefits, purchases of logs, fiber and other raw materials used in our manufacturing facilities, reforestation, silviculture, road construction and road maintenance on our timberlands, and energy and operating expenditures to run our manufacturing facilities. Our Resources and Manufactured Products Segments have significant uses of cash, and as a result our operating income (excluding depletion and depreciation) approximates the Segments operating cash flow. In contrast, our cash outflows in our Real Estate and Other Segments are very small, and as a result our revenues from those Segments approximate operating cash flows. Occasionally, we may recognize revenues in connection with non cash exchanges of timberland when the exchanges are considered to have commercial substance. During 2009, we recognized $25 million of revenue in the Real Estate Segment in connection with a non cash exchange of timberland. In certain circumstances for our Other Segment, cash will be received in upfront payments, such as lease bonuses, but revenues will be recognized over several reporting periods (quarters or years). We have summarized our sources and uses of cash in a table at the end of this section. During 2010, we experienced a modest improvement in the economic environment for our Resources and Manufactured Products Segments. However, despite this improvement, we expect our businesses to continue to be impacted by the downturn in the U.S. economy, especially due to the expected continuation of near record low housing starts, an excess supply of homes for sale and high unemployment. Furthermore, we expect cash provided by operating activities in 2011 to decline from the $449 million we generated in 2010 due primarily to lower proceeds from real estate sales. However, we believe cash from operating activities will be more than adequate to fund our current dividend (approximately $272 million) and planned capital expenditures ($75 million to $80 million). During 2010, we took advantage of attractive public debt markets and issued $575 million of ten year Senior Notes at 4.70%. We used the proceeds from this offering to prepay debt that was scheduled to mature in 2011 and 2012. We also entered into a new four year $600 million revolving credit facility, replacing our previous facility which would have matured in June 2011. Furthermore, we ended the year with a strong balance sheet, a cash balance of $252 million and availability of $425 million under our line of credit. We plan to fund 2011 scheduled long term debt principal payments ($94 million) with cash on hand or borrowings on our line of credit. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 41 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 The following table summarizes total cash flows for operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 449 $ 540 $ 420 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (58 ) (64 ) (205 ) Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (438 ) (546 ) (86 ) Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (47 ) $ (70 ) $ 129 Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 totaled $449 million, compared to $540 million in 2009. This decrease of $91 million from 2009 is due primarily to net lower proceeds from real estate sales of $122 million and a $65 million change in working capital, offset in part by a combined $80 million increase in operating income from our Resources Segments and our Manufactured Products Segments (net of a 2009 $10 million non cash impairment charge) and a lease bonus we received of $10 million from a modification of certain gas exploration rights. See Results of Operations for a discussion of the factors impacting operating income for our segments. The net lower proceeds from real estate sales of $122 million in 2010 was due primarily to the $250 million of proceeds received during 2009 from the closing of the second phase of a three phase transaction, partially offset by the $89 million of proceeds received during 2010 for the closing of the third phase of the three phase transaction. Further offsetting the lower proceeds were increased small non strategic sales in 2010 of $44 million. The change in working capital of $65 million, which decreased from 2009, is primarily due to proceeds we received from a like kind exchange escrow account in 2009. Proceeds associated with a like kind exchange are either reinvested in like kind property within 180 days or distributed to the company at the end of either the 45 day identification period or the 180 day reinvestment period. During 2010 and 2009, we did not enter into any like kind exchange transactions. However, during 2009, we received proceeds of $48 million from our like kind exchange escrow account related to transactions entered into during 2008. During the first quarter of 2010, we received proceeds of $10 million for a lease modification for gas exploration rights that were originally granted in 2008. The $10 million is being amortized into revenue over the three year exploration term. See Other Segment in Results of Operations for further discussion. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $540 million, compared to $420 million in 2008. This increase of $120 million is due primarily to working capital changes ($117 million), lower interest payments for debt obligations to unrelated parties ($50 million), lower pension funding ($20 million) and lower operating losses in our manufacturing business ($21 million), offset in part by lower operating income in our timber business ($91 million). During 2008, we contributed approximately 454,000 acres to a timberland venture followed by borrowing $783 million from the venture. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A portion of the loan proceeds were used to retire outstanding indebtedness to unrelated parties. During 2009, we made interest payments of $58 million to the venture compared to interest payments of $7 million in 2008. During 2009, we received $53 million in cash distributions from the venture while no distributions were received in 2008. As a result of lower debt levels (to unrelated parties) and lower interest rates on our variable rate debt, we reduced interest payments for debt obligations to unrelated parties by $50 million in 2009. Additionally, during 2008 we made pension contributions of $30 million while only $10 million was required in 2009 based on our funding policy. Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures were as follows for the years ending December 31 (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Capital Expenditures (Excluding Timberland Acquisitions) $ 71 $ 61 $ 70 Expenditures for Real Estate Development 2 1 7 Total Capital Expenditures $ 73 $ 62 $ 77 Planned capital expenditures for 2011, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, are expected to range between $75 million and $80 million and include approximately $63 million for our timberlands, $4 million for our manufacturing 42 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 facilities, $4 million for real estate development investments, and $6 million for investments in information technology. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Approximately 50% of planned capital expenditures in 2011 are discretionary, primarily expenditures for silviculture. Capital expenditures at our manufacturing facilities consist primarily of expenditures to sustain operating activities and improve safety. Timberland Acquisitions. There were no significant timberland acquisitions in 2010 or 2009. During 2008, 147,000 acres were acquired primarily in Georgia, Vermont and Oregon for approximately $119 million. These acquisitions were funded through the companys line of credit and like kind exchanges. Debt Financing. We strive to maintain a balance sheet that provides the financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives. In order to maintain this financial flexibility, our objective is to maintain an investment grade credit rating. This is reflected in our moderate use of debt, established access to credit markets and no material covenant restrictions in our debt agreements that would prevent us from prudently using debt capital. All of our borrowings, except for the Note Payable to Timberland Venture, are made by Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., the companys wholly owned operating partnership (the Partnership). Furthermore, all of the outstanding indebtedness of the Partnership is unsecured. Line of Credit. On December 14, 2010, the company terminated its previous $750 million revolving line of credit maturing in June 2011 and entered into a new $600 million revolving line of credit agreement that matures in January 2015. As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average interest rate for the borrowings on the line of credit was 1.95%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 1.70%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 1.275% to LIBOR plus 2% depending on our debt ratings. In addition to interest expense on outstanding borrowings, we pay an annual facility fee equal to 0.3% of the entire line regardless of the amount drawn on the line during the year. Subject to customary covenants, the line of credit allows for borrowings from time to time up to $600 million, including up to $100 million of standby letters of credit. Borrowings on the line of credit fluctuate daily based on cash needs. As of December 31, 2010, we had $166 million of borrowings and $9 million of standby letters of credit outstanding; $425 million remained available for borrowing under our line of credit. As of January 3, 2011, all of the borrowings outstanding under our line of credit were repaid. Term Credit Agreement. The company has a $350 million term credit agreement that matures in June 2012. As of December 31, 2010, the interest rate for the term credit agreement was 0.72%. The interest rate is based on LIBOR plus 0.45%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. The term credit agreement is subject to covenants that are substantially the same as those of the revolving line of credit. The agreement allows for prepayment of the borrowings at any time prior to the maturity date without premium or penalty. Senior Notes. The company has outstanding Senior Notes with various maturities and fixed interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, the company has $359 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding that are privately placed borrowings with various lenders (Private Debt). The Private Debt matures serially through 2016. As of December 31, 2010, the company has publicly issued and outstanding $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes (Public Debt). In November 2010, the company issued $575 million aggregate principal amount of 4.70% Public Debt. The 4.70% Public Debt matures in 2021. The remaining 5.875% Public Debt with an aggregate principal amount of $458 million matures in 2015. The Public Debt is issued by the Partnership and is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. The Senior Notes are redeemable prior to maturity; however, they are subject to a premium on redemption, which is based upon interest rates of U.S. Treasury securities having similar average maturities. The premium that would have been due upon early retirement approximated $164 million at December 31, 2010 and $137 million at December 31, 2009. The Public Debt is structurally subordinated to all debt and liabilities of the Partnerships subsidiaries to the extent of the value of the assets at the subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010, the total amount of debt and liabilities of the Partnerships subsidiaries was $359 million, all of which was unsecured. In the event of insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution, winding up of the Partnerships business or other similar process, the assets of the Partnerships subsidiaries will be available to pay the amounts due on the Public Debt only after the indebtedness of the Partnerships subsidiaries has been repaid in full. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 43 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Senior Notes outstanding, including unamortized discount, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Senior Notes Public Debt $ 1,029 $ 453 Private Debt 358 627 Total Senior Notes $ 1,387 $ 1,080 Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. and the Partnership have filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission which expires on April 24, 2012. Under the shelf registration statement, Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., from time to time, may offer and sell any combination of preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants and guarantees, and the Partnership may from time to time, offer and sell debt securities. The company intends to maintain a shelf registration statement with respect to such securities. Note Payable to Timberland Venture. The company has a $783 million note payable from a timberland venture (a related party). The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. During the ten year term of the note, interest is paid quarterly with the principal due upon maturity. The note matures on October 1, 2018 but may be extended until October 1, 2020 at the election of Plum Creek. The note is not redeemable prior to maturity. The note is structurally subordinated to all other indebtedness of the company at December 31, 2010. See Notes 9 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Debt Principal Payments. The table below summarizes the debt principal payments made for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2010 2009 Public Debt $ $ 5 Private Debt 269 267 Term Credit Agreement 250 Total $ 519 $ 272 During 2010, the company prepaid approximately $213 million of principal of Private Debt. This prepayment resulted in a $13 million loss. During 2009, the company prepaid approximately $109 million of principal of Private Debt and $5 million of principal of Public Debt. These prepayments resulted in a $2 million loss. The $13 million loss and the $2 million loss for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, are classified as Loss on Extinguishment of Debt in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Debt Covenants. Our Term Credit Agreement, Senior Notes and Line of Credit contain various restrictive covenants, none of which are expected to materially impact the financing of our on going operations. We are in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2010. Our Line of Credit and Term Credit Agreement require that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. We have no covenants and restrictions associated with changes in our debt ratings. We have investment grade long term debt ratings. Furthermore, there are no material covenants associated with our Note Payable to Timberland Venture, and the indebtedness is not considered in computing any of our debt covenants since the debt is an obligation of Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. and not the Partnership. The borrowing agreements for the Private Debt include limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or stock repurchases), harvest levels and sales of assets. The restricted payments covenant is based on a computation of available cash, which is generally our net income (excluding gains on the sale of capital assets) after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves, less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. Additionally, the amount of available cash may be increased by the amount of proceeds from the sale of higher and better use properties and, under certain circumstances, by 50% of the amount of net proceeds from the sale of other assets. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2010, we can borrow the entire amount available under our Line of Credit, and we expect to be able to incur at least this level of additional indebtedness for the next twelve months. 44 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Future Cash Requirements. Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. In 2011, we have $94 million of scheduled long term debt principal payments which we expect to fund using a combination of cash and available borrowing capacity under our $600 million line of credit. Additionally, we believe that our current cash on hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund 2011 planned capital expenditures, interest payments on our indebtedness and our dividend. The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Sources of Cash: Operations (A) $ 402 $ 437 $ 513 Changes in Working Capital, net (4 ) 61 (56 ) Cash Distributions from Timberland Venture 57 53 Cash from Stock Option Exercises 2 14 Cash from Sale of Properties and Other Assets 13 1 Proceeds from Note Payable to Timberland Venture 783 Other Cash Changes, net (B) 2 Total Sources of Cash 472 552 1,254 Uses of Cash: Returned to Stockholders: Dividends (272 ) (275 ) (286 ) Common Stock Repurchases (51 ) (87 ) (264 ) Reinvest in the Business: Capital Expenditures, including Real Estate Development (C) (73 ) (62 ) (77 ) Acquire Timberlands (1 ) (119 ) Expenditures for Timberland Venture (9 ) Meet our Pension Obligations: Pension Contributions (4 ) (10 ) (30 ) Purchases of Marketable Securities (2 ) (3 ) (7 ) Reduce Debt Obligations, net (117 ) (184 ) (333 ) Total Uses of Cash (519 ) (622 ) (1,125 ) Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (47 ) $ (70 ) $ 129 (A) Calculated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows by adding Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization, Basis of Real Estate Sold, Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture, Gain on Sales of Properties and Other Assets, (Gain) Loss on Extinguishment of Debt, Deferred Revenue from Long Term Gas Leases (Net of Amortization), Deferred Income Taxes and Other Operating Activities (excluding Expenditures for Real Estate Development see discussion in Footnote C below) to Net Income. (B) From the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Other Investing Activities. (C) Calculated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows by adding Capital Expenditures (excluding Timberland Acquisitions) and Expenditures for Real Estate Development, which are included in Other Operating Activities, net. Expenditures for Real Estate Development were $2 million, $1 million, and $7 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Equity. On February 8, 2011, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.42 per share, or approximately $68 million, which will be paid on March 4, 2011, to stockholders of record on February 18, 2011. Future dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the prices of and demand for Plum Creeks products, and changes in our ability to sell timberlands at attractive prices. Other factors that our Board of Directors considers include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 45 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Plum Creeks Board of Directors has authorized a common stock repurchase program that may be increased from time to time at the Board of Directors discretion. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we repurchased 1.4 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $50 million, or an average cost per share of $36.37. At December 31, 2010, $200 million is available for share repurchases under the current Board of Directors authorization. Other Information None. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Approximately $2.2 billion (including $783 million of related party obligations) of Plum Creeks long term debt bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. We also have variable rate debt that is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents contractual principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of the companys debt obligations and the related weighted average contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed and variable rate debt (in millions): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total FairValue (A) December 31, 2010 Fixed Rate Debt Third Party Obligations Principal Due (B) $ 95 $ 3 $ 250 $ 3 $ 462 $ 579 $ 1,392 $ 1,436 Average Interest Rate (C) 5.6 % 5.5 % 5.4 % 5.2 % 5.2 % 4.7 % Related Party Obligations Principal Due $ 783 $ 783 $ 885 Interest Rate 7.4 % Variable Rate Debt (D) $ 350 $ 350 $ 347 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total FairValue (A) December 31, 2009 Fixed Rate Debt Third Party Obligations Principal Due (B) $ 56 $ 308 $ 3 $ 250 $ 3 $ 466 $ 1,086 $ 1,136 Average Interest Rate (C) 6.7 % 6.5 % 6.2 % 6.1 % 5.9 % 5.9 % Related Party Obligations Principal Due $ 783 $ 783 $ 795 Interest Rate 7.4 % Variable Rate Debt $ 600 $ 600 $ 571 (A) The fair value of the companys Public Debt is estimated using market quotes; the fair value of the companys Private Debt with unrelated third parties is estimated using the same rates adjusted for the different maturities. The fair value of the companys Note Payable to Timberland Venture is estimated using the same rates as the Public Debt adjusted by an estimated risk premium for holding company debt and the different maturity. The increase in fair value of our fixed rate debt compared to December 31, 2009 (excluding related party debt) was due primarily to the issuance of $575 million of Public Debt in November of 2010, partially offset by principal repayments of $269 million of Private Debt in 2010. The increase in the fair value of our Note Payable to Timberland Venture at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 was due primarily to declining market interest rates. In December 2010, treasury rates and credit spreads (the difference between corporate debt rates and treasury rates) were lower than December 2009, resulting in lower market interest rates. The fair value of our floating rate term loan (variable rate debt) as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 was determined by adjusting the spread over LIBOR to a current market spread for comparable debt as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. (B) Excludes unamortized discount of $5 million and $6 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 46 | PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7A (C) Represents the average interest rate of total fixed rate debt (excluding related party debt) outstanding at the end of the period. (D) As of December 31, 2010, the interest rate for the $350 million term credit agreement was 0.72%. The interest rate on the term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 0.45%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. Not included in the above table are borrowings under our $600 million revolving line of credit of $166 million. As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average interest rate on the $166 million of borrowings was 1.95%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 1.70%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 1.275% to LIBOR plus 2% depending on our debt ratings. As of January 3, 2011, all of the borrowings outstanding under our line of credit were repaid. PLUM CREEK 2010 FORM 10 K | 47 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 8 
 
