ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSForward Looking StatementThis Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors under Item 1A in this Form 10 K. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to:the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance;an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in supply of timber products;an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use or non strategic timberlands;our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; andour failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT.It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of Plum Creek and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither Plum Creek nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements.Organization of the CompanyIn managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (Item 7 of this form), when we refer to Plum Creek, the company, we, us, or our, we mean Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements refer to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K.Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., a Delaware Corporation and a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes, is the parent company of Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., a Delaware Limited Partnership (the Operating Partnership or Partnership), and Plum Creek Ventures I, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company (PC Ventures). Plum Creek conducts substantially all of its activities through the Operating Partnership and various wholly owned subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership.The Operating Partnership has borrowed and has currently outstanding $2.0 billion principal amount of debt, including $1.0 billion of publicly issued notes. PC Ventures has borrowed and has currently outstanding $783 million in principal amount of debt (the Note Payable to Timberland Venture) from an entity (the Timberland Venture) in which a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership has a common and preferred equity interest. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PC Ventures used the proceeds from the borrowing to make a $783 million capital contribution to the Operating Partnership in exchange for a preferred equity interest in the Operating Partnership. PC Ventures has no other activities and the Operating Partnership has no ownership interest in PC Ventures.The Note Payable to Timberland Venture is an obligation of PC Ventures and not an obligation of the Operating Partnership. Therefore, any discussion of the Note Payable to Timberland Venture below is not applicable to the Operating Partnership. Unless otherwise specified, all other discussion and analysis below are applicable to both Plum Creek and the Operating Partnership.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 25Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Overview2011 Operating Performance Compared to 2010 Our operating income for 2011 of $275 million was $22 million lower than our operating income for 2010. Our operations continue to be negatively impacted by near record low housing starts, which are a result of high unemployment, declining home values, an excess supply of homes for sale and the difficulties associated with obtaining financing for home and or real estate purchases. We expect many of these adverse trends will continue to negatively impact our operating results in 2012.Operating income in our Northern Resources Segment increased by $11 million from $13 million in 2010 to $24 million in 2011. This increase was due primarily to higher sawlog prices and harvest levels in Oregon as a result of an improved demand from China for export logs. Operating income in our Southern Resources Segment decreased by $33 million from $107 million in 2010 to $74 million in 2011. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog and pulpwood prices. Both sawlog and pulpwood prices declined because of the abundant supply of logs due primarily to favorable harvesting conditions. Sawlog prices were also negatively impacted by near record low housing starts.Operating income in our Manufacturing Products Segment decreased by $9 million from $24 million in 2010 to $15 million in 2011. This decrease was primarily due to the rising of cost of raw materials used to manufacture our plywood and MDF products.Operating income in our Real Estate Segment increased by $15 million from $180 million in 2010 to $195 million in 2011. Despite selling fewer acres and recognizing lower revenues in 2011, our operating income increased due primarily to selling more properties in 2011 that had a lower book basis.LiquidityWe ended 2011 with a strong balance sheet and we do not foresee any liquidity issues in 2012. At December 31, 2011, we had a cash balance of $254 million and availability on our line of credit of $250 million. During 2011, we generated $374 million of cash from operating activities. Despite anticipated improved cash flow as a result of higher sawlog harvest volumes and prices, we expect cash provided by operating activities in 2012 to decline due to using $98 million of cash for the purchase of an eight year timber deed. We expect our cash balance to improve approximately $50 million during 2012 due to anticipated higher sawlog volumes and prices, and also due to financing the purchase of the timber deed. As a result, we expect more than adequate cash to fund our current dividend (approximately $271 million) and planned capital expenditures (approximately $80 million). We have scheduled debt principal payments of $353 million in 2012 and $174 million in January 2013, which we expect to refinance at favorable interest rates.Key Economic Factors Impacting Our Resources and Manufactured Products BusinessOur operating performance for the Resources and Manufactured Products Segments is impacted primarily by the supply and demand for logs and wood products in the United States. The short term supply of logs is impacted primarily by weather and the level of harvesting activities. The demand for logs and wood products in the United States is impacted by housing starts, repair and remodeling activities, industrial activity and the amount of imported lumber, primarily from Canada.Selected U.S. housing economic data for the last five years was as follows at December 31: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007U.S. Housing Starts (in millions) 0.61 0.59 0.55 0.90 1.35Supply of Existing Homes for Sale (in months) 6 8 7 11 1030 yr. Fixed Interest Mortgage Rates (average) 4.5% 4.7% 5.0% 6.0% 6.3%The housing market in 2011 remained depressed again for the fourth consecutive year. Despite record low interest rates and pent up demand for housing, the U.S. housing market experienced no improvement during 2011. Housing PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 26Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 starts continue to be negatively impacted by high unemployment, declining home values, an excess supply of homes for sale, and strict lending standards. Housing starts in 2011 increased by 3% over the prior year due to a 54% increase in multi family starts. However, single family starts declined by 9% to approximately 430,000 starts in 2011, which was the lowest number of single family starts in the past 50 years. With a single family unit using approximately twice as much wood as a multi family unit, the demand for wood products continued to decline in 2011.Housing starts are not expected to significantly improve until the employment outlook improves and home prices stabilize. Unlike prior recoveries from recession, the unemployment rate continues to remain high and at the end of January 2012, was 8.3%. Although the unemployment rate is slowly declining, at the current rate of job creation it is expected to take another several years before the U.S. returns to full employment. Home values (nationally) continued falling in 2011, declining an additional 3%. Currently, there exists an estimated six million homes that either have been foreclosed or are in the process of foreclosure, that are behind on their mortgage payments, or that owe more on their loan than the value of their home. As a result, home prices may continue to decline in 2012.While we believe favorable demographics will bode well for the wood products business in the long run and that annual housing starts will return to more normal levels (i.e. between 1.5 million and 1.6 million annual starts), for the last several years, low housing starts have significantly reduced lumber demand and, therefore, log demand. This has resulted in weak pricing for the logs and wood products we sell. We expect the prices for our logs and wood products to remain weak until there is a significant improvement in the number of U.S. housing starts, reduced levels of unemployment and a decline in the number of homes for sale.We use independent third party contract loggers and haulers to deliver our logs to our customers. As weak business conditions in the timber business have persisted for several years, there are fewer loggers and haulers available in certain markets to produce logs. While we continue to enhance strong working relationships with our loggers and haulers, when log markets improve there may be production and delivery constraints that could impact log prices and, potentially, our ability to benefit from these conditions by delivering logs. Over the past several years, fuel prices have fluctuated significantly. Our timber and manufacturing operations are significantly impacted by changing fuel prices. The table below summarizes the average annual U.S. On Highway diesel fuel prices and the impact of fluctuating fuel prices on our operating income compared to the prior annual period: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007Increase/(Decrease) Operating Income (in millions) $(15) $(4) $36 $(23) N/AAnnual Average U.S. On Highway Diesel Price (per gallon) $3.85 $2.99 $2.46 $3.81 $2.88Higher Value and Non Strategic TimberlandsFrom time to time, we review our timberlands to identify properties that may have higher values other than as commercial timberlands (see discussion in Item 1 Real Estate Segment). We estimate that included in the companys 6.6 million acres of timberlands at December 31, 2011, are approximately 900,000 acres of higher value timberlands which are expected to be sold, exchanged, and or developed over the next 15 years for recreational, conservation or residential purposes. Included within the 900,000 acres of higher value timberlands are approximately 700,000 acres we expect to sell for recreational uses, approximately 100,000 acres we expect to sell for conservation and approximately 100,000 acres that are identified as having development potential. Furthermore, the company has approximately 300,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the near and medium term in smaller scale transactions (small non strategic). Not included in the above 900,000 higher value acres and 300,000 small non strategic acres are other acres that are expected to be sold in large acreage transactions to commercial timberland buyers as opportunities arise (large non strategic). Some of our real estate activities, including our real estate development business, are conducted through our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. In the meantime, all of our timberlands continue to be managed productively in our business of growing and selling timber. During 2011, we sold approximately 47,000 acres of higher and better use / recreational properties for proceeds of $96 million, approximately 67,000 acres of conservation properties for proceeds of $70 million, approximately 22,000 acres of small non strategic properties for proceeds of $27 million, along with approximately 48,000 acres of large PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 27Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 non strategic properties for proceeds of $103 million. We expect revenue from real estate sales during 2012 to range between $275 million and $325 million. We expect an increased proportion of our 2012 revenue for real estate sales to come from the sale of large non strategic properties.Our land development business slowed dramatically starting in 2008 and has since remained weak. We do not expect any significant proceeds from the sale of real estate development properties in 2012. We expect our real estate development business to remain weak until there is a significant improvement in consumer confidence, real estate values begin appreciating and financing becomes available for such properties.Harvest LevelsThe volume of trees we harvest each year and the percentage of sawlogs and pulpwood (product mix) included in our annual harvest also impact our operating performance. During 2011, we harvested a total of 15.8 million tons compared to a total of 15.4 million tons during 2010. We expect total 2012 harvest levels to increase approximately 7% as a result of the recent purchase of an eight year timber deed and increasing our sawlog harvest. While we have the flexibility to modify our annual harvest volumes, based on market conditions, we expect harvest levels to increase approximately 10% over the near term (next five years) and more than 30% over the long term (ten years and beyond) compared to 2011 harvest levels. Future harvest levels may vary from historic or expected levels due to weaker or stronger than anticipated markets or other factors outside of our control, such as weather and fires. Future harvest levels may also be impacted by the acquisition of timberlands or the disposition of timberlands beyond the 1.2 million acres described above in the Higher Value and Non Strategic Timberlands section.Critical Accounting PoliciesOur discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Under different assumptions or conditions, actual results may differ from these estimates.We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements:Revenue Recognition for Timber SalesTimber sales revenues are recognized when legal ownership and the risk of loss transfer to the purchaser and the quantity sold is determinable. We sell timber under delivered log agreements and through sales of standing timber (or stumpage) using pay as cut sales contracts or timber deed sale agreements.Delivered Log Sales. Under a delivered log sale agreement, we harvest the timber and deliver it to the buyer. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered as risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer. With delivered log sales, we incur the cost of logging and hauling.Pay as Cut Sales Contracts. Pay as cut sales contracts are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each type of tree over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases, an advance is received in connection with pay as cut sales contracts. In other cases, the buyer agrees to harvest only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut sales contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue is recognized when the timber is harvested, as title and risk of loss has transferred to the buyer. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut sales contract is the total volume of wood removed multiplied by the unit price for each type of tree.Timber Deeds. Timber deed sales are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber (i.e. mature pulpwood and or sawlogs) on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually less than 18 months). Unlike a pay as cut sales contract, risk of loss and title to the trees transfer to the buyer when the contract is signed. The buyer pays the full purchase price when the contract is signed and we do not have any additional performance PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 28Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 obligations. Under a timber deed, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs and the timing of such activity. Revenue from a timber deed sale is recognized when the contract is signed because the earnings process is complete. Timber deeds are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise which is an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a timber deed is not dependent upon the volume or types of trees actually harvested.The following table summarizes amounts recognized under each method from sales to external customers in the companys consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2011 2010Revenues from: Delivered log sales $497 $486Pay as cut sales $35 $30Timber deed sales $3 $12Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, approximately 11% of our timber sales in 2011 and 12% of our timber sales 2010 consisted of pay as cut sales contracts or timber deed sales. Under sales of stumpage, the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs; therefore, the operating profit as a percentage of revenue is typically higher in our Southern Resources Segment.Real Estate SalesThe timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the ability of buyers to obtain financing, the number of competing properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding (especially for conservation sales). As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. During 2011, the Real Estate Segment reported an operating profit percentage of approximately 65%. Over the last ten years, the Real Estate Segments annual operating profit percentage has ranged from 40% to 70% of revenues. The operating profit percentage depends on the nature of the interest sold and how much the market value of the property has risen over its book value. For example, sales of properties that have been held by the company for a long time (i.e. decades) will tend to have relatively higher operating profit percentages than properties that have been held by the company for shorter time periods. In contrast, the sale of conservation easements will generally have an operating profit percentage of close to 100% because historically no book basis was allocated to these types of sales. In general, timberlands are acquired primarily for long term use in our timber operations. In connection with timberland acquisitions, we are generally not able to identify, with any level of precision, our future real estate sales (i.e. specific properties with a higher value than for use in timber production). However, our purchase price allocation and related appraisals for these acquisitions may reflect greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future but are not yet specifically identified. Therefore, in connection with our purchase price allocation for timberland acquisitions, the greater values for real estate are allocated proportionately among all of the acres acquired. Specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. We believe that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions.Impairment of Long Lived AssetsWe evaluate our ability to recover the net investment in long lived assets when required by the accounting standards. We recognize an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets used in our business when the carrying value PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 29Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 (net book value) of the assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to those assets over their expected useful life. Impairment losses are measured by the extent to which the carrying value of a group of assets exceeds the fair value of such assets at a given point in time. Generally, our fair value measurements used in calculating an impairment loss are categorized as Level 3 measurements (i.e. unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity) under the fair value hierarchy in the Accounting Standards Codification. Typically, we will use a discounted cash flow model or an external appraisal to estimate the fair value of the affected assets. Furthermore, we recognize an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of the assets exceeds an amount equal to their fair value less selling costs.The company has had a long history of acquiring timberlands. Management is required to estimate the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Subsequent to the original allocation, assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable through future operations. Our long lived assets are grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are independent cash flows. We track cash flows for our 6.6 million acres of timberlands by grouping them into seven geographic areas in the Northern Resources Segment and five geographic areas in the Southern Resources Segment. Additionally, we track cash flows for each of our manufacturing facilities.Timber and Timberlands Used in Our Business. For assets used in our business, an impairment loss is recorded only when the carrying value of those assets is not recoverable through future operations. The recoverability test is based on undiscounted future cash flows over the expected life of the assets. We use one harvest cycle (which ranges between 20 and 90 years) for evaluating the recoverability of our timber and timberlands. Because of the inherently long life of timber and timberlands, we do not expect to incur an impairment loss in the future for the timber and timberlands used in our timber business.Timber and Timberlands Held for Sale. An impairment loss is recognized for long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of those assets exceeds an amount equal to its fair value less selling costs. An asset is generally considered to be held for sale when we have committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition, we have initiated an active program to locate a buyer (e.g., listed with a broker), and the sale is expected to close within one year. During the last several years, the above criteria have been met by some of our timberland properties, and we have recognized annual impairment losses of between $1 million and $3 million for certain of these properties (see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). An impairment loss is generally not recorded until management expects that timberlands will be sold within the next 12 months. For many properties that are currently listed for sale, it is difficult to conclude whether they will be sold within one year and to estimate the price. Nevertheless, management performs a probability assessment for all properties that are listed for sale and records an impairment loss (to the extent the propertys book basis exceeds its estimated fair value net of selling cost) in the quarter in which management expects the property will be sold within twelve months.We expect to continue to sell or exchange timberlands to other forest products companies or non industrial buyers, and it is probable that we will recognize additional impairment losses, some of which could be material, in the future in connection with sales of timberlands.Property, Plant and Equipment. The carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment represents primarily the net book value of our eight (two of which are curtailed until markets improve) manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable through future operations. The estimated future cash flows over the remaining useful life of a manufacturing facility is highly subjective and is dependent upon estimates for future product pricing, raw material costs and availability, volumes of product sold, and residual value of the facility. No impairment losses were recorded during 2011 or 2010. During 2009, as a result of an analysis to rationalize and consolidate its lumber operations, the company recorded an impairment charge of $10 million related to certain lumber manufacturing assets. We currently estimate that the carrying value for our eight facilities is recoverable through future operations and that our estimate of future cash flows is reasonable. However, if wood product prices were to remain weak at current levels for an extended period of time, or if log or raw material availability declines, we may record an impairment loss for one or more of our manufacturing facilities in a future period.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 30Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Capitalized Real Estate Development Costs. Current and future costs associated with specific real estate development projects are capitalized once management has concluded it is probable that a project will be successful. Real estate development costs are expensed as incurred when management is not able to conclude that it is probable a project will be successful. Furthermore, previously capitalized costs for specific projects are written off when management revises its prior assessment and concludes that it is probable a project will not be successful and costs will not be recovered. For many of our projects, there is less judgment in making this determination due to prior experience in the local market or advice from consultants. However, for some of our larger projects where we have limited experience in the local market or for projects in environmentally sensitive areas, there is significant judgment in assessing the expected outcome for the projects. At December 31, 2011, we have $30 million of capitalized costs associated with projects that management expects will be successful. Of these capitalized costs, approximately $18 million represent costs for a single project that has been approved by a state commission but is being appealed in court by groups opposed to the project. While not expected, if the approval is reversed, some or all of these capitalized costs could be written off in the next twelve months.DepletionDepletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each geographic area are adjusted at least annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South to as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 31Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 The following table summarizes depletion expense recognized in the companys financial statements, key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per ton amounts): 2011 2010Depletion Expense Northern Resources Segment $17 $18Southern Resources Segment 48 48Total Depletion Expense $65 $66 Average Depletion Rates (per ton) Northern Resources Segment $4.13 $4.61Southern Resources Segment $4.09 $4.18 Assumptions Used to Determine the Average Depletion Rates Estimated Future Silviculture Costs, including the Impact of Inflation Northern Resources Segment $49 $62Southern Resources Segment (A) $531 $485 Estimated Future Volume (in million tons) Northern Resources Segment 269 271Southern Resources Segment (B) 413 392 Sensitivity of Results to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in Depletion Expense for a 10%: Increase in Estimated Future Silviculture Costs (C) Northern Resources Segment $0.1 $0.1Southern Resources Segment $1.5 $1.4 Decrease in Estimated Future Volume (D) Northern Resources Segment $1.9 $2.3Southern Resources Segment $5.2 $5.3 (A) Reflects an increase in our estimates of future costs associated with fertilization treatments due to higher chemical and application costs and more acres treated.(B) Increase from 2010 is due primarily to an increase in our estimate of rotation length for certain stands and improved growth rates.(C) Assumes future timber volumes do not change.(D) Assumes future silviculture costs do not change.Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles.We have invested in technology that enables us to predict our current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised at least annually, we do not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 32Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Depletion Expense in 2012. In January 2012, we purchased standing timber under an eight year timber deed for approximately $103 million with initial volume of approximately 4.7 million tons. The timber deed will have its own unique depletion rate. We expect depletion expense in our Southern Resources Segment to increase by approximately $11 million as a result of harvesting a portion of the timber deeds standing timber in 2012. Accounting for Share Based CompensationPlum Creek has a stockholder approved Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, value management awards and dividend equivalents. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Grants of value management awards are classified and accounted for as liabilities. As a result, the expense recognized over the performance period will equal the fair value (i.e., cash value) of an award as of the last day of the performance period multiplied by the number of awards that are earned. Furthermore, the quarterly expense recognized during the performance period is based on the fair value as of the end of the most recent quarter. Prior to the end of the performance period, compensation cost for value management awards is based on the awards most recent quarterly fair values and the number of months of service rendered during the performance period.Fair values for value management awards are computed based on our historical relative total shareholder return and simulated relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of peer groups consisting of forest products companies, the S&P 500 Index and the Morgan Stanley REIT Index over the same period (Peer Group). The simulated total shareholder return of the company and the Peer Group is computed using a Monte Carlo simulation. The key assumptions used in the simulation of the companys and the Peer Groups total shareholder return are volatility, beta (the measure of how Plum Creeks stock moves relative to the market as a whole) and risk free interest rate.The fair value of the liability for outstanding value management awards at December 31, 2011 was $3 million, which is based on the current fair value of outstanding awards multiplied by the percentage of months that services were provided during the performance period. The liability at December 31, 2011 could range between $0 and $13 million based on the possible fair value of all outstanding liability based awards. We could have a material adjustment to our share based compensation liability to the extent there is a material change in the fair value of our value management awards during the quarter.PensionsPension Plans Overview. Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We maintain a qualified defined benefit pension plan and two supplemental (non qualified) defined benefit pension plans. Participants benefits vest after three years of service. The cash balance benefits for salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year Treasury bond rate. Participants who were employees of the company on September 1, 2000, earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance benefits or a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on the highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month out of the last 120 month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits to hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service.Plum Creeks contributions to its qualified pension plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year. It is generally the companys policy to fund the qualified pension plan annually such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plan was discontinued) over a market cycle (generally 3 to 5 years). The company has the same funding policy for the non qualified plan. However, assets related to the non qualified plans are held in a grantor trust and are subject to the claims of creditors and, therefore, are not considered plan assets.Under current U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), the company makes estimates and assumptions that can have a significant impact on the amounts reflected in our financial statements. These assumptions and their sensitivities, along with the application of the accounting principles and impact to our financial statements, are discussed in the next several sections. PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 33Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Current Year Impact and Analysis. During 2011, our pension liability increased from $135 million to $164 million and our pension assets decreased from $106 million to $100 million. Our pension liability represents the present value of expected future benefit payments and is remeasured annually as of December 31. Each year, our pension liability increases due to employees working for one more year (service cost), and getting one year closer to receiving benefit payments (interest cost), and decreases as pension benefits are paid. Our pension liability is also adjusted due to changes in interest rates. During 2011, our pension liability increased by $21 million (an actuarial loss) due to falling interest rates. Actuarial losses are initially recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) and then subsequently amortized (charged) to pension expense over future periods.Annually, our plan assets increase due to cash contributions from the company, decrease due to pension benefit payments, and will increase or decrease as a result of realized and unrealized gains and losses for the assets. Our pension expense is reduced by the expected returns on plan assets. We currently estimate that our long term return on plan assets will average 7.5% per year. Based on the plan assets balance, our 2011 pension expense was reduced by $7 million (the expected return on plan assets in dollars). The actual return on plan assets was a loss of $3 million for 2011. We initially recognize this difference (shortfall) of $10 million in other comprehensive income (loss) and then subsequently will amortize (charge) to pension expense over future periods.At December 31, 2011, our cumulative net actuarial pension loss recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was $53 million (includes both unrecognized changes in our pension liability and plan assets), of which $4 million will be amortized (charged) to 2012 pension expense. Each year the future amortization of our actuarial pension loss recognized in pension expense will increase or decrease due to changes in interest rates and actual returns on plan assets compared to expected returns. Additionally, while not expected, future company contributions may need to be increased to the extent interest rates remain low or actual investment returns on plan assets do not meet our expectations.Significant Assumptions. The computation of the companys benefit obligation, pension cost and accrued pension liability under U.S. GAAP requires us to make certain assumptions involving primarily the following (weighted average rates): 2011 2010Assumptions Used to Determine the Benefit Obligation at December 31 Discount Rates (A) Annuity Distributions 4.95% 5.90%Lump Sum Distributions 3.02% 4.19%Rate of Compensation Increase (B) 3.45% 3.45% Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost Discount Rate Annuity Distributions 5.90% 5.90%Lump Sum Distributions 4.19% 4.31%Expected Long Term Return on Plan Assets (C) 7.50% 7.75%Rate of Compensation Increase (B) 3.45% 3.45% (A) The December 31, 2011 discount rate for annuity distributions was determined by the resulting yield of a hypothetical bond portfolio at December 31, 2011, matched to the expected benefit payments under the plans. Bonds selected for this portfolio had a Moodys or Standard & Poors credit rating of AA or better as of December 31, 2011. The December 31, 2011 discount rate for lump sum distributions is based on yields on 30 year U.S. Treasury bonds.(B) The assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels represents our long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations.(C) The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 34Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns on each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio.Since pension benefits may be settled in either a single lump sum or an annuity distribution, both the estimated percentage of participants electing a lump sum payment and the assumed interest rate (discount rate) used in computing the lump sum benefit are key assumptions. We currently estimate that approximately half of the qualified plan participants will elect a lump sum distribution upon termination. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but which are nevertheless subject to uncertainty.It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets.Financial Measures and Sensitivities. The following table summarizes key financial measures and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2011 2010Key Financial Measures Pension Expense $9 $8Cash Pension Plan ContributionsQualified Plan 3 4Cash Grantor Trust FundingSupplemental Plans 1Current Accrued Pension Liability 4 3Non Current Accrued Pension Liability 60 26Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in Pension Expense for Every 0.25 Percentage Point: Decrease in Long Term Rate of Return on Plan Assets $0.3 $0.3Decrease in Weighted Average Discount Rate 0.6 0.6Increase in Rate of Increase in Compensation Levels 0.2 0.2Increase in Qualified Pension Funding (actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation) for: Every 0.25 Percentage Point Decrease in the Weighted Average Discount Rate $4.1 $3.3Every 0.25 Percentage Point Decrease in the Weighted Average Discount Rate Assumption for Lump Sum Benefits $1.4 $1.3 Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 7.50%, and weighted average discount rates of 4.95% for annuity distributions (and 3.02% for lump sum distributions) for 2012 and beyond, and a 3.45% rate of increase in compensation levels, we project our annual pension expense for 2012 will be approximately $11 million and will range between $11 million and $12 million each year for 2013 through 2016. In 2012, we expect our cash funding for the qualified pension plan to range between $3 million and $7 million and our cash funding for the supplemental (non qualified) pension plans to range between $0 and $2 million. Assuming no change to our disclosure assumptions, under our present funding policy and current funding rules for the qualified pension plan we would expect cash contributions to be approximately $10 million each year in 2013 through 2015 and approximately $9 million in 2016. We expect to fund between $0 and $2 million in 2012 to our supplemental (non qualified) pension plans and approximately $1 million each year for 2013 through 2016.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 35Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, Contingent Liabilities and CommitmentsThe company has no off balance sheet debt. Our consolidated financial statements reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. The company has an equity investment in an unconsolidated entity, discussed below. Otherwise, the company has no other relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. The company is not a party to any derivative transactions.On October 1, 2008, the company contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands located in its Southern Resources Segment to a timberland venture in exchange for an equity interest. The company accounts for its interests under the equity method of accounting. See Notes 16 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2011 (in millions): Payment Due by PeriodContractual Obligations Total Less Than1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than5 YearsLong Term Debt (A) $2,374 $426 $368 $891 $689Note Payable to Timberland Venture (B) 1,187 58 116 116 897Operating Lease Obligations 12 3 5 3 1Timber Obligations 6 1 1 4Long Term Incentive Plans 3 3 Purchase Obligations (C) 370 55 68 45 202Other Long Term Liabilities (D) Total Contractual Obligations $3,952 $543 $561 $1,055 $1,793 (A) In addition to principal, long term debt includes related interest obligations based on the coupon or stated interest rate for our fixed rate debt and the variable interest rate as of December 31, 2011 of 0.65% for our $350 million term credit agreement. Interest obligations are $73 million (less than one year), $115 million (1 3 years), $78 million (3 5 years), and $114 million (more than 5 years). As we expect borrowings outstanding under our line of credit to vary, only repayment of the principal is included. In 2011, interest expense related to our line of credit was less than $1 million.(B) On October 1, 2008, the company borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture (a related party). The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. Interest obligations are $58 million (less than one year), $116 million (1 3 years), $116 million (3 5 years), and $114 million (more than 5 years).(C) Purchase obligations are comprised primarily of $230 million for a 15 year agreement for the purchase of urea to be used as fertilizer on our timberlands, $46 million for long term timber leases, $44 million for timber harvest contracts, $32 million for fiber supply agreements to supply our manufacturing facilities, and approximately $12 million for raw materials (wood fiber) and electricity for our MDF facilities.(D) We have not included any amounts for our other long term liabilities, as we cannot estimate when we will be obligated to satisfy these liabilities. At December 31, 2011, other long term liabilities include workers compensation of $10 million, deferred compensation obligations of $5 million and non qualified pension obligations of $36 million (including $4 million classified as a current liability). We expect to fund approximately $2 million for workers compensation payments in 2012. We have two grantor trusts, which hold assets associated with our deferred compensation obligations and non qualified pension obligations. At December 31, 2011, the fair value of assets in one of our grantor trusts is approximately equal to our deferred compensation obligation of $5 million. The December 31, 2011 fair value of assets in the other grantor trust was approximately $31 million and the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation for our non qualified pension plans was $31 million. Assets in our grantor trusts have been reserved for the above obligations. However, grantor trust assets are subject to the claims of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. Additionally, based on current interest rates and PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 36Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 expected returns, the company expects 2012 contributions to the qualified pension plan to range between $3 million and $7 million and between $0 and $2 million for the supplemental (non qualified) pension plans. See Notes 10 and 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.We have not included in the table above our purchase of a timber deed. In December 2011, we signed an agreement to acquire a timber deed in the Southern Resources Segment for $103 million. Concurrent with the execution of this agreement, we paid a $5 million deposit. In January 2012, we completed this acquisition and paid the remaining purchase price of $98 million. The timber deed encompasses approximately 4.7 million tons of standing timber and will be harvested over the eight year term of the deed.Events and Trends Affecting Operating ResultsHarvest PlansWe determine our annual timber (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a contiguous block of trees of a similar age, species mix or silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 100,000 to almost 1 million acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, certain external conditions such as supply agreements, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Harvest scheduling is the technical approach using computer modeling that considers all of the above factors along with forest growth rates and financial assumptions to project future harvest plans for a number of years forward.Our actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. Furthermore, future harvest levels will be impacted by sales and purchases of timberlands. The impact will depend on the level and extent we are able to reinvest proceeds in productive timberlands and the stocking levels and age class distribution of any newly acquired timberlands.Harvest levels are also impacted by the purchase of a long term timber deed. In January 2012, the company acquired approximately 4.7 million tons of standing timber in our Southern Resources segment for a total purchase price of $103 million. We expect to harvest the 4.7 million tons plus the related growth over the eight year term of the timber deed.Northern Resources Segment. Harvest levels were 4.0 million tons (58% sawlogs and 42% pulpwood) during 2011 and 4.0 million tons (54% sawlogs and 46% pulpwood) during 2010. In 2012, we expect sawlog harvest volumes to increase by approximately 8% due to favorable export markets, and we expect pulpwood harvest volumes in 2012 to be comparable to 2011 harvest volumes. While the company has flexibility to modify our annual harvest volumes, based on market conditions, we expect harvest levels beyond 2012 in both the near term and long term to increase by more than 10% and we expect the product mix (i.e., the percentage of sawlogs vs. pulpwood) to improve to greater than 60% sawlogs compared to 2011 harvest levels.Southern Resources Segment. Harvest levels were 11.8 million tons (42% sawlogs and 58% pulpwood) during 2011 and 11.5 million tons (44% sawlogs and 56% pulpwood) during 2010. In 2012, we expect sawlog harvest volumes to increase by approximately 20% as a result of the recent purchase of an eight year timber deed and harvesting volume that was previously deferred. We expect pulpwood harvest volumes in 2012 to be comparable to 2011 harvest volumes. While the company has flexibility to modify our annual harvest volumes, based on market conditions, we expect harvest levels beyond 2012 to be at moderately higher levels over the near term (next five years) and increase more than 35% over the long term (ten years and beyond) and we expect the product mix to improve to approximately 50% sawlogs compared to 2011 harvest levels.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 37Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Manufactured Products Segment Production LevelsThe results of our Manufactured Products Segment are driven largely by the strength of the U.S. housing market, which began declining in 2007 and has remained very weak. In 2011, housing starts increased 3% from 2010 levels to approximately 600,000 starts, but they remain significantly below historical averages achieved in the previous decade of approximately 1.7 million starts per year. During 2009, we permanently closed two lumber mills, suspended production at one additional lumber mill and one remanufacturing facility and reduced production at another lumber mill. We have also reduced production at our MDF and plywood facilities in response to the decline in demand. During 2011, we continued to operate all of our Manufactured Products facilities at reduced or suspended levels similar to 2010. Until markets for wood products improve, our expected production levels (and sales volumes) will be significantly lower than the combined capacity of our facilities.Clean Water Act Ninth Circuit RulingIn August, 2010, a three judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled in Northwest Environmental Defense Center (NEDC) v. Brown that ditches and culverts associated with forest roads were point sources under the Clean Water Act (CWA) and thus required National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits should storm water runoff that is channeled and or conveyed from such sources be discharged into waters of the United States. In May, 2011, the court denied a petition for rehearing, leaving its prior decision in place. The plaintiff alleged that the defendants violated the CWA by not obtaining EPA permits for stormwater runoff from logging roads into systems of ditches, culverts and channels that is then discharged into forest streams and rivers. The plaintiff further alleged that timber hauling on logging roads is a major source of sediment that flows through the stormwater collection system. This decision overturns a long standing EPA rule that had exempted such sources of runoff from CWA permitting. Since 1976, the EPA has promulgated and amended a regulation specifically exempting from NPDES permitting requirements point source silviculture activities such as nursery operations, site preparation, reforestation and subsequent silvicultural treatment, thinning, prescribed burning, pest and fire control, harvesting operations, surface drainage, or road construction and maintenance from which there is natural runoff (the Silviculture Rule). Under the Silviculture Rule, the EPA did not require permitting for discharges from ditches, culverts and channels that collect stormwater runoff from logging roads. Instead, these forestry sources of stormwater runoff are regulated by the states, many of which do so by adopting best management practices.The outcome of the courts decision is uncertain. A petition for review has been filed with the United States Supreme Court seeking to appeal the decision. After reviewing, the Supreme Court has requested the U.S. Solicitor General seek out and report to the Court the views of several relevant federal agencies, including the EPA, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Department of Interior and the Council on Environmental Quality. It is expected that the Supreme Court will decide whether to hear the appeal shortly after receiving this report. In addition, legislation passed by Congress in late December 2011 prohibits the EPA from implementing the NPDES permitting regime mandated by the Ninth Circuit decision through September 30, 2012. Should the Ninth Circuits ruling stand, its impact on the company and the timber industry is unknown. It is unclear whether the EPA would require NPDES permits for forest roads outside of the area covered by the Ninth Circuit. It is also unclear what, if any, additional regulatory restrictions would be imposed by the NPDES permitting process. Further, if logging and other forest management roads and operations currently within the scope of the Silviculture Rule were placed within the NPDES permitting regime, it is possible that CWA "Total Maximum Daily Load" (TMDL) allocations in various stream drainages, "anti degradation," and other NPDES requirements could be affected. A significant increase in operational and compliance costs for landowners and operators is possible depending upon the regulatory response to the courts decision.Comparability of Financial Statement PeriodsAcquisitions and Divestitures. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of timberland acquisitions and divestitures. PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 38Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 The following table summarizes timberland acquisitions and dispositions for each of the past three years, along with our total acres owned at each of the past three year ends (in acres): 2011 2010 2009Acquisitions: Northern Resources Southern Resources 59,000 Dispositions Northern Resources 45,000 142,000 248,000Southern Resources 140,000 116,000 49,000 Total Ownership at December, 31 (in millions) 6.6 6.8 7.0 PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 39Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Results of OperationsThe following table compares Operating Income (Loss) by Segment and other items impacting our income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2011 2010 2009Operating Income (Loss) by Segment Northern Resources $24 $13 $(3)Southern Resources 74 107 81Real Estate 195 180 278Manufactured Products 15 24 (23)Other 21 23 17Total Segment Operating Income 329 347 350Other Costs and Eliminations (55) (51) (51)Other Unallocated Operating Income (Expense), net 1 1 Operating Income 275 297 299Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture 56 57 55Interest Expense, net (Debt Obligations to Unrelated Parties) 81 80 89Interest Expense (Note Payable to Timberland Venture) 58 58 58Loss on Extinguishment of Debt (13) (2)Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes (1) 1 (31)Income from Continuing Operations $193 $202 $236 2011 Compared to 2010 Northern Resources Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealizationSawlog ($/Ton Delivered)2.319 $69 2.134 $63Pulpwood ($/Ton Delivered)1.680 $41 1.823 $39Total3.999 3.957 Revenues increased by $23 million, or 11%, to $233 million in 2011 compared to 2010. This increase was due primarily to higher sawlog prices ($15 million), higher sawlog harvest volumes ($11 million) and higher pulpwood prices ($4 million), partially offset by lower pulpwood harvest volumes ($5 million). Sawlog prices were 10% higher in 2011 compared to 2010 due primarily to the increase in demand from China for the export of sawlogs from the Pacific Northwest. The strong export demand has favorably impacted domestic log prices by limiting the supply of domestic sawlogs. Export demand and sawlog prices declined moderately during the fourth quarter of 2011 due to high log inventories and a slowdown in Chinas economic growth. However, demand and prices remained strong compared to the prior year. Sawlog harvest volumes were 9% higher in 2011 compared to 2010 due primarily to the harvesting of volume that was previously deferred due to weak log prices. A portion of the previously deferred volume was harvested in 2011 to capture favorable export log prices.Pulpwood prices were 6% higher in 2011 compared to 2010 due primarily to steady demand from paper mills and a reduced supply of wood chips as a result of lower regional lumber production. Pulpwood harvest volumes were 8% lower due primarily to accelerating pulpwood harvest volume in prior years to take advantage of favorable log prices. Sawlog harvest volumes in 2012 are expected to increase by approximately 8% as we restore harvest volume to PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 40Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 normal levels in anticipation of continued favorable export markets. Pulpwood harvest volumes in 2012 are expected to be comparable to 2011 harvest volume. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 10% of its revenues for 2011 and 6% of its revenues for 2010. This increase was due primarily to higher sawlog prices. Segment costs and expenses increased by $12 million, or 6%, to $209 million for 2011 due primarily to an increase in the log and haul rate per ton. On a per ton basis, costs increased 11% ($13 million) in 2011 compared to 2010 due primarily to more expensive harvesting methods, longer hauling distances, and higher fuel costs. During 2010, we primarily harvested from stands with below average logging and hauling costs due to weak log prices.Southern Resources Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealizationSawlog ($/Ton Stumpage)4.969 $19 5.021 $23Pulpwood ($/Ton Stumpage)6.822 $9 6.446 $12Total11.791 11.467 Revenues decreased by $18 million, or 5%, to $359 million in 2011 compared to 2010. This decrease was due primarily to lower pulpwood prices ($14 million), lower sawlog prices ($9 million) and lower sawlog harvest volumes ($3 million), partially offset by higher pulpwood harvest volumes ($10 million). Pulpwood prices were 22% lower on a stumpage basis (8% lower on a delivered basis) in 2011 compared to 2010. This decrease was due primarily to unusually dry harvesting conditions for most of 2011 compared to unusually wet harvesting conditions in 2010. Also, in the prior year pulpwood markets were impacted by the temporary supply chain disruption resulting from the February 2010 earthquake in Chile.Sawlog prices were 14% lower on a stumpage basis (6% lower on a delivered basis) in 2011 compared to 2010. This decrease was due primarily to an ample supply of logs as a result of favorable harvesting conditions, weak demand and, to a lesser extent, selling a greater proportion of smaller diameter sawlogs. The demand for sawlogs remained weak throughout 2011 due primarily to near record low housing starts as a result of falling home prices, a sluggish U.S. economy and high unemployment. Pulpwood harvest volumes were 6% higher in 2011 compared to 2010 and sawlog harvest volumes were 1% lower due primarily to relatively stronger pulpwood prices. While both pulpwood and sawlog prices were weak during 2011, pulpwood prices were relatively more favorable than sawlog prices. Sawlog harvest volumes in 2012 are expected to increase by approximately 20% due to the recent purchase of a timber deed and harvesting of previously deferred volume. Approximately 0.7 million tons are expected to be harvested in 2012 as a result of the timber deed, of which 0.5 million tons will be sawlogs. In January 2012, we purchased a timber deed containing approximately 4.7 million tons of standing timber which we expect to harvest over the next eight years. Pulpwood harvest volumes in 2012 are expected to be comparable to 2011 harvest volume.Southern Resources operating income was 21% of its revenues for 2011 and 28% of its revenues for 2010. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog and pulpwood prices and higher log and haul costs. Segment costs and expenses increased by $15 million, or 6%, to $285 million due primarily to an increase in the cost of fuel. Log and haul costs on a per ton basis increased 7% ($11 million) in 2011 compared to 2010.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 41Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Real Estate Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Year Ended December 31, 2010PropertyAcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper AcreSmall Non Strategic22,165 $27 $1,220 63,235 $61 $970Large Non Strategic48,450 103 2,115 24,310 32 1,320Conservation67,425 70 1,050 116,105 122 1,050Higher and Better Use / Recreational47,295 96 2,015 53,265 114 2,140Development Properties20 6,405 845 3 3,415Conservation Easementsn/a 5 460 n/a 4 455Total185,355 $301 257,760 $336 Revenues decreased by $35 million to $301 million in 2011. This decrease is due primarily to lower revenues from sales of conservation properties ($52 million), small non strategic properties ($34 million) and higher and better use / recreational properties ($18 million), offset in part by an increase in revenue from the sale of large non strategic properties ($71 million). Revenues from the sale of conservation properties decreased as a result of selling fewer acres. Conservation properties sold during 2011 consisted primarily of two sales totaling approximately 57,000 acres in Florida, Arkansas, and Louisiana. In comparison, during 2010 we sold approximately 70,000 acres in the third and final phase of a 310,000 acre multi year conservation sale in Montana and approximately 35,000 acres from two conservation properties in Wisconsin and Arkansas. Conservation sales vary significantly from period to period and are primarily impacted by government and not for profit funding, the limited number of conservation buyers, and the timing of our transactions. Additionally, the price per acre for conservation properties can vary significantly due to the geographic location and the rationale for the conservation designation. The decrease in small non strategic acres sold during 2011 compared to 2010 was due primarily to an unusually large sale during the first quarter of 2010 when a collection of approximately 23,000 acres were sold to a single buyer. Revenues from our higher and better use / recreational land sales decreased due primarily to selling approximately 6,000 (or 11%) fewer acres and to a lesser extent from a 5% lower average price per acre compared to sales in 2010. Demand for higher and better use / recreational properties (especially our higher value properties) remains weak due to concerns over near term real estate values, low consumer confidence, and the inability of buyers to secure debt financing. Revenue from the sale of large non strategic timberlands was $103 million in 2011 compared to $32 million in 2010. The company took advantage of favorable demand for large parcels of commercial timberlands and increased the sale of large non strategic properties. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the ability of buyers to obtain financing, the number of competing properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding (especially for conservation sales). Also, in any period the sales average will vary based on the location and physical characteristics of the parcels sold.At December 31, 2011, the company owned approximately 6.6 million acres of timberlands. Included in the 6.6 million acres are approximately 900,000 acres of higher value timberlands which are expected to be sold over the next fifteen years and 300,000 acres of non strategic timberlands which are expected to be sold in smaller acreage transactions over the near and medium term (small non strategic). Not included in the above 900,000 higher value acres and 300,000 small non strategic acres are other acres that are expected to be sold in large acreage transactions to commercial timberland buyers as opportunities arise (large non strategic). We expect revenue from real estate sales during 2012 to range between $275 million and $325 million. We expect an increased proportion of our 2012 revenue PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 42Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 for real estate sales to come from the sale of large non strategic acres.The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 65% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 54% for 2010. This increase is due primarily to selling large and small non strategic acres at a higher price per acre in 2011 compared to 2010 and a low operating margin for the large conservation sale in Montana during the fourth quarter of 2010. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses decreased by $50 million to $106 million in 2011 due primarily to selling fewer acres. For 2012, we expect operating income as a percent of revenue to be lower, at approximately 45% of segment revenue, due to selling properties with a higher book value.Manufactured Products Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2011 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Sales Volume Average SalesRealization (A) Sales Volume Average SalesRealization (A)Lumber115,925 MBF $518 116,090 MBF $507Plywood172,433 MSF $379 172,716 MSF $378MDF160,144 MSF $608 157,017 MSF $606(A) Represents product prices at the mill level. Revenues increased by $8 million, or 3%, to $273 million in 2011 compared to 2010. This increase was due primarily to higher freight charges ($3 million), higher MDF sales volume ($2 million), and higher lumber prices ($1 million). Freight charges are included in both Revenues and Costs of Goods Sold. The Manufactured Products Segment continues to be impacted by weakness in the U.S. housing market and very low levels of demand for wood products. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was 5% of its revenues for 2011 compared to 9% of its revenues for 2010. This decrease in operating performance was due primarily to increased manufacturing costs and a gain from the sale of certain lumber manufacturing assets during 2010. The $2 million gain on sale is included in Other Operating Income (Expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income for 2010. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses increased by $17 million, or 7%, to $258 million for 2011 due primarily to higher raw materials costs ($7 million) and increased freight charges ($3 million). For 2011, higher raw materials costs consisted mostly of higher resin costs at MDF ($4 million), higher costs of operating supplies to produce specialty plywood products ($2 million) and higher log costs ($1 million). We continue to operate our manufacturing facilities at a reduced capacity. Other Segment. Operating income decreased $2 million to $21 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due primarily to a $5 million operating gain in connection with the termination of a land lease (primarily for the release of mineral rights) in 2010. Partially offsetting the decrease in operating income was a payment of $2 million that we received during 2011 for the settlement of a dispute that related to certain mineral rights. The $2 million and $5 million gains are recorded in our Other Segment and reported as Other Operating Income (Expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Other Costs and Eliminations. Other costs and eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $54 million during 2011 compared to $50 million during 2010. The increase of $4 million was due primarily to higher share based compensation costs ($3 million) and higher legal and regulatory compliance costs ($2 million). The increase in share based compensation expense is due primarily to fair value adjustments. We adjust the fair value of our liability associated with our value management plan quarterly based on our relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of several peer groups. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Corporate overhead costs along with Segment specific selling, general, and administrative costs are reported in total on our Consolidated Statements of Income and decreased operating income by $106 million in 2011 compared to $95 million in 2010. This increase in expense of $11 million was due primarily to a large charitable contribution we made to a forest conservation fund ($5 million) in 2011, higher compensation expenses ($2 million) and higher legal and regulatory compliance costs ($2 million). PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 43Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Interest Expense, net. Interest expense, net of interest income, was $139 million in 2011. This was essentially flat compared to 2010.Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. The benefit for income taxes was $1 million for 2011 compared to a provision for income taxes of $1 million in 2010. This decrease in tax expense of $2 million was due primarily to a $9 million decrease in operating income from our manufacturing business during 2011 compared to 2010 (resulting in lower tax expense of $4 million), offset in part by a $3 million valuation allowance recorded during 2011. The valuation allowance is related to certain state net operating loss carryforwards and other associated deferred tax assets for which we do not believe it is more likely than not they will be realized in future periods. Our determination of the realization of deferred tax assets is based upon managements judgment of various future events and uncertainties, including the timing, nature and amount of future taxable income earned by certain wholly owned subsidiaries. A valuation allowance is recognized if management believes it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. At December 31, 2011, we have recorded deferred tax assets of $62 million (net of a $3 million valuation allowance) and deferred tax liabilities of $39 million. Management believes that due to the reversal of various taxable temporary differences and or the planned execution of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies, sufficient taxable income can be generated to utilize the companys remaining deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance was determined to be unnecessary.2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Northern Resources Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealizationSawlog ($/Ton Delivered)2.134 $63 2.137 $55Pulpwood ($/Ton Delivered)1.823 $39 2.268 $40Total3.957 4.405 Revenues decreased by $2 million to $210 million in 2010. Revenues were slightly lower compared to 2009 as higher sawlog prices ($18 million) were offset by lower pulpwood volumes ($18 million) and lower pulpwood prices ($2 million). Sawlog prices were 15% higher in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was due primarily to improvement in demand during the spring building season as a result of low mill log inventories and improving lumber and plywood prices. Additionally, sawlog prices in the Northwestern U.S. have also been favorably impacted by increased lumber production compared to 2009 and improved export demand for sawlogs (primarily from China). However, sawlog prices remained relatively weak during most of 2010 due to near record low housing starts as a result of an excess supply of homes for sale and high unemployment.Pulpwood harvest volumes were 20% lower due primarily to temporary increases in harvest levels in prior years to capture favorable pulpwood prices. In 2010 and 2009, we deferred a portion of the sawlog harvest in Oregon due to weak demand and prices.Northern Resources Segment operating income was $13 million for 2010 compared to an operating loss of $3 million in 2009. This increase of $16 million was due primarily to higher sawlog prices. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $18 million, or 8%, to $197 million due primarily to lower harvest volumes and lower forest management and administrative expenses. Various forest management and administrative expenses have decreased by 14% ($4 million) due primarily to cost reduction initiatives and timberland dispositions. PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 44Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Southern Resources Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealization Harvest Tons(millions) Average SalesRealizationSawlog ($/Ton Stumpage)5.021 $23 4.402 $22Pulpwood ($/Ton Stumpage)6.446 $12 6.999 $10Total11.467 11.401 Revenues increased by $30 million, or 9%, to $377 million in 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was due primarily to higher sawlog harvest volumes ($22 million), higher pulpwood prices ($15 million), and higher sawlog prices ($3 million), partially offset by lower pulpwood harvest volumes ($13 million). Sawlog harvest volumes increased by approximately 600,000 tons, or 14%, and pulpwood harvest volumes decreased by approximately 600,000 tons, or 8%, compared to 2009 due primarily to a shift in standing inventory. During the past several years, we have concentrated on thinning young timber stands (i.e. first thinnings) to maintain vigorous growth rates and to capture favorable pulpwood prices. The timber harvested from these first thinnings was predominately pulpwood. During 2010, a greater proportion of harvest volume was from more mature timber stands that contained both pulpwood and small diameter sawlogs. Pulpwood prices were 16% higher on a stumpage basis (11% higher on a delivered basis) during 2010 compared to the prior year due primarily to a temporary shortage of logs and improved demand. Throughout most of the U.S. South, pulpwood was in short supply during the first half of 2010 due to extremely wet weather conditions. However, as a result of our extensive ownership, we were able to deliver logs when other timberland owners had to curtail log production. During 2010, the demand for pulpwood remained favorable due primarily to the improvement in global economic conditions, a reduced supply of wood chips from solid wood products manufacturers, and the temporary supply chain disruption of market pulp as a result of the February 2010 earthquake in Chile. Nevertheless, pulpwood prices during the fourth quarter of 2010 declined to $10 per ton; the same average sales price realized during the fourth quarter of 2009 due to favorable harvesting conditions (dry weather) and high mill log inventories. Sawlog prices were generally weak during most of 2010 due to near record low housing starts as a result of an excess supply of homes for sale and high unemployment.Southern Resources Segment operating income was 28% of its revenues for 2010 and 23% for 2009. This increase was due primarily to higher pulpwood prices and higher sawlog volumes. Segment costs and expenses increased by $4 million, or 2%, to $270 million.Real Estate Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009PropertyAcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper AcreSmall Non Strategic63,235 $61 $970 19,620 $19 $950Large Non Strategic24,310 32 1,320 59,160 38 650Conservation116,105 122 1,050 165,855 280 1,690Higher and Better Use / Recreational53,265 114 2,140 50,275 112 2,235Development Properties845 3 3,415 2,060 12 5,520Conservation Easements 4 455 Subtotal257,760 336 296,970 461 Revenue from Non Cash Exchange 20,600 25 1,205Total257,760 $336 317,570 $486 Revenues decreased by $150 million to $336 million in 2010. This decrease was due primarily to lower revenues from sales of conservation properties ($158 million) and revenue realized on a non cash exchange valued at $25 million in PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 45Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 2009, offset in part by an increase in the number of acres of small non strategic land sales ($42 million). Revenues from the sale of conservation properties decreased due primarily to selling fewer acres associated with a three phase transaction in Montana. The third phase of approximately 70,000 acres in Montana closed during 2010 for approximately $89 million. The second phase was during 2009 for approximately 112,000 acres in Montana for $250 million. The first phase was during 2008 and conveyed approximately 130,000 acres in Montana for $150 million. Conservation sales vary significantly from period to period and are primarily impacted by government and not for profit funding, the limited number of conservation buyers, and the timing of our transactions. Additionally, the price per acre for conservation properties can vary significantly due to the geographic location and the rationale for the conservation designation.The increase in small non strategic acres sold during 2010 compared to 2009 was due primarily to an unusually large sale during 2010 when a collection of approximately 23,000 acres were sold to a single buyer.We may dispose of large blocks of timberlands to maximize value (large non strategic) such as the 24,000 acres we sold during 2010 in Louisiana for $32 million and nearly 60,000 acres in Wisconsin we sold during 2009 for $38 million. Additionally, during 2009, we completed a non cash exchange of land with the State of Washington. We recognized $25 million of revenue which represents the fair value of the lands we received. No operating income was recognized for the transaction as the book value of the timberlands we disposed of approximated the exchange value of $25 million.Revenues from higher and better use / recreational land sales were generally comparable between 2010 and the prior year. However, average sales realization decreased by 4% due primarily to our continued focus on selling lower valued recreational properties. The demand for higher valued recreational properties remained weak due to concern over near term real estate values, low consumer confidence, and the inability of buyers to secure debt financing.The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the ability of buyers to obtain financing, the number of competing properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding (especially for conservation sales). Also, in any period the sales average will vary based on the location and physical characteristics of the parcels sold.The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 54% for the period ended December 31, 2010 compared to 57% for the same period in 2009. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses decreased by $52 million to $156 million in 2010 due primarily to selling fewer acres.Manufactured Products Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Sales Volume Average SalesRealization (A) Sales Volume Average SalesRealization (A)Lumber116,090 MBF $507 164,512 MBF $397Plywood172,716 MSF $378 154,918 MSF $357MDF157,017 MSF $606 132,092 MSF $597(A) Represents product prices at the mill level. Revenues increased by $20 million, or 8%, to $265 million in 2010. This increase was due primarily to higher MDF sales volume ($16 million), higher lumber prices ($8 million), and higher plywood sales volume ($7 million), offset in part by lower lumber sales volume ($13 million).MDF sales volume increased by 19% in 2010 compared to 2009 due primarily to increased demand. During 2010, when seasonal demand in the U.S. was increasing, the global supply of MDF was temporarily disrupted due to the February 2010 earthquake in Chile. In addition, the weaker U.S. dollar reduced MDF imports to the U.S. PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 46Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Lumber sales prices were 28% higher during 2010 due primarily to limited supply, a temporary increase in demand and the closure and curtailment of our mills in 2009, which generally sold a lower value product. The supply of lumber was constrained due to extensive mill curtailments and weather related log shortages, primarily during the first half of 2010. The temporary improvement in demand was primarily due to the restocking of lumber inventories in anticipation of the 2010 spring building season. Lumber prices peaked during the second quarter of 2010 but declined during the remainder of 2010 as demand for housing remained weak. U.S. housing starts were 588,000 for all of 2010, a 6% increase from the 554,000 starts in 2009 (a record low since 1945). Additionally, repair and remodel activity in the U.S. improved modestly during 2010 (3%), but still remained over 20% below peak levels in the prior decade. Lumber sales volume declined 29% during 2010 due primarily to curtailed production. During 2009, we permanently closed two lumber mills and suspended production at two other lumber mills as a result of historically low housing starts.Plywood sales volume was 12% higher during 2010 due primarily to increased demand. The supply of plywood was temporarily constrained in 2010 due to a decline in imports as a result of the impact of the February 2010 earthquake in Chile. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was $24 million for 2010 compared to an operating loss of $23 million for 2009. This increase in operating performance was due primarily to impairments, write downs, severance and pension settlement charges recorded in 2009 ($20 million), improved product prices, primarily lumber, and various cost saving initiatives ($4 million). During 2009, we recorded a lumber mill impairment ($10 million), a related write down of spare parts ($2 million), a write down of mill inventories ($2 million), severance charges ($2 million), and pension settlement charges ($4 million). Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $27 million, or 10%, to $241 million for 2010 due primarily to no impairments, write downs, severance charges, or pension settlement charges, lower lumber production in 2010, and various cost saving initiatives, offset in part by higher MDF sales volume.Other Segment. Operating income increased $6 million to $23 million in 2010 due primarily to a $5 million operating gain in connection with the termination of a land lease in 2010. The $5 million was recorded in our Other Segment since the consideration was primarily for the release of mineral rights and is reported as Other Operating Income (Expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income.During the first quarter of 2010, we received cash proceeds of $21 million for the sale of an undivided 50% interest in mineral rights (natural gas reserves on properties located in West Virginia) and to amend an agreement covering existing exploration rights. We allocated $11 million to the sale of mineral rights and $10 million to the modification of exploration rights. The sale of mineral rights is reported as Gain on Sale of Properties, net of tax in our Consolidated Statements of Income and was not included in the Other Segments operating income. The remaining consideration of $10 million related to the modified exploration rights, along with the remaining deferred revenue at the time of the modification of $12 million associated with the original granting of exploration rights in 2008, is being amortized into revenue of the Other Segment over the expected three year term. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other costs and eliminations (consisting of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $51 million in both 2010 and 2009.Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Corporate overhead costs along with Segment specific selling, general, and administrative costs are reported in total on our Consolidated Statements of Income and decreased operating income by $95 million in 2010 and by $106 million in 2009. This decrease in expense of $11 million was due primarily to lower share based compensation expense ($7 million) and lower severance charges ($4 million). The decrease in share based compensation expense was due to a decrease in the fair value of our value management plan awards in 2010. We adjust the fair value of our liability associated with our value management plan quarterly based on our relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of several peer groups.Interest Expense, net. Interest expense, net of interest income, decreased $9 million, or 6%, to $138 million in 2010. This decrease was due primarily to debt retirements, including both maturing borrowings and prepayments, of Senior Notes (fixed rate debt) in 2009 and 2010. While these retirements reduced average outstanding debt levels in 2010 compared to 2009, a portion of the retirements were refinanced with our line of credit at significantly lower interest rates. Interest expense for both periods included $58 million related to our Note Payable to Timberland Venture.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 47Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 In November 2010, we issued $575 million aggregate principal amount of 4.70% Senior Notes. With the proceeds from this borrowing, we prepaid Senior Notes (with higher interest rates) that were scheduled to mature in 2011, retired our $250 million term credit agreement (scheduled to mature in 2012), and reduced outstanding borrowings on our line of credit. Gain (Loss) on Extinguishment of Debt. In 2010, we made prepayments of approximately $226 million to retire $213 million of principal for debt due in 2011. These prepayments were at a premium and as a result, we recognized a loss in 2010 of $13 million. In 2009, we made debt principal prepayments at a slight premium resulting in a $2 million loss.Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $1 million for 2010 compared to a benefit for income taxes of $31 million for 2009. The decrease in the tax benefit of $32 million is due primarily to improved results in our manufacturing business which increased operating income by $47 million during 2010 compared to 2009 (resulting in $19 million higher tax expense in 2010). Additionally, in 2009, we recorded a tax benefit related to the reversal of $5 million of previously accrued built in gains tax and a reduction to our deferred tax liability of $3 million, compared to a reduction to our deferred tax liability of $1 million during 2010. Gain on Sale of Properties, net of tax. During 2010, we sold an undivided 50% interest in mineral rights (natural gas reserves) on properties located in West Virginia for $11 million. See Other Segment above for detailed discussion of the transaction.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 48Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Financial Condition and LiquidityOur cash flows from operations are impacted by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry and by general economic conditions in the United States, including interest rate levels and availability of financing. We generate cash primarily from sales of delivered logs and standing timber, sales of our finished manufactured wood products, and sales of our timberlands. Our principal cash requirements are primarily for:expenditures for logging and hauling of logs,employee compensation and related benefits,purchases of logs, fiber and other raw materials used in our manufacturing facilities,reforestation, silviculture, road construction and road maintenance on our timberlands, andenergy and operating expenditures to run our manufacturing facilities.Our Resources and Manufactured Products Segments have significant uses of cash, and as a result our operating income (excluding depletion and depreciation) approximates the Segments operating cash flow. In contrast, our cash outflows in our Real Estate and Other Segments are very small, and as a result our revenues from those Segments approximate operating cash flows. In our Other Segment, cash may be received in upfront payments, such as lease bonuses, but revenues will be recognized over several reporting periods (quarters or years). We have summarized our sources and uses of cash in a table later in this section.During 2011, our operating results and cash flow continued to be negatively impacted by the weak housing market. This trend is expected to continue in 2012 due to the near record low housing starts, the weak U.S. economy, high unemployment, low consumer confidence and tight lending standards. During 2011, we generated $374 million of cash from operating activities. Despite anticipated improved cash flow as a result of higher sawlog harvest volumes and prices, we expect cash provided by operating activities in 2012 to decline due to using $98 million of cash for the purchase of an eight year timber deed.We expect our cash balance to improve approximately $50 million during 2012 due to anticipated higher sawlog volumes and prices, and also due to financing the purchase of the timber deed. As a result, we expect more than adequate cash to fund our current dividend (approximately $271 million) and planned capital expenditures (approximately $80 million). We ended 2011 with a strong balance sheet; we had a cash balance of $254 million and availability on our line of credit of $250 million. We have scheduled debt principal payments of $353 million in 2012 and $174 million in January 2013. We plan on refinancing these debt obligations at favorable interest rates.Cash FlowThe following table summarizes total cash flows for operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2011 2010 2009Net Cash Provided By Operating Activities $374 $449 $540Net Cash Used In Investing Activities (171) (58) (64)Net Cash Used In Financing Activities (201) (438) (546)Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents $2 $(47) $(70) Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 totaled $374 million compared to $449 million in 2010. This decrease of $75 million is due primarily to a combined $32 million decrease in operating income from both of our Resources Segments and our Manufactured Products Segment, net lower proceeds from real estate sales of $29 million, and a $13 million Federal income tax refund received in 2010. See Results of Operations for a discussion of the factors impacting operating income for our Resources and Manufactured Products Segments and factors impacting real estate proceeds for our Real Estate Segment.In 2010, we received a $13 million Federal income tax refund as a result of the Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act of 2009, which allowed our taxable REIT subsidiaries to carry back net operating losses and amend previously filed tax returns. During 2011, we received less than $1 million in Federal income tax refunds.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 49Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Net Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 totaled $449 million, compared to $540 million in 2009. This decrease of $91 million from 2009 is due primarily to net lower proceeds from real estate sales of $122 million and a $65 million change in working capital, offset in part by a combined $80 million increase in operating income from our Resources Segments and our Manufactured Products Segment (net of a 2009 $10 million non cash impairment charge) and a lease bonus we received of $10 million from a modification of certain gas exploration rights. The net lower proceeds from real estate sales of $122 million in 2010 was due primarily to the $250 million of proceeds received during 2009 from the closing of the second phase of the three phase transaction, partially offset by the $89 million of proceeds received during 2010 for the closing of the third phase of the three phase transaction. Further offsetting the lower proceeds were increased small non strategic sales in 2010 of $44 million. The change in working capital of $65 million, which decreased from 2009, is primarily due to proceeds we received from a like kind exchange escrow account in 2009. Proceeds associated with a like kind exchange are either reinvested in like kind property within 180 days or distributed to the company at the end of either the 45 day identification period or the 180 day reinvestment period. There were no proceeds in a forward like kind exchange account at either December 31, 2010 or December 31, 2009. However, during 2009, we received proceeds of $48 million from our like kind exchange escrow account related to transactions entered into during 2008. During the first quarter of 2010, we received proceeds of $10 million for a lease modification for gas exploration rights that were originally granted in 2008. The $10 million is being amortized into revenue over the three year exploration term. Timber Deed Acquisition. In January 2012, the company purchased a timber deed in the Southern Resources Segment for $103 million, $5 million of which was paid as a deposit in December 2011. The timber deed encompasses approximately 4.7 million tons of standing timber and will be harvested over the eight year term of the deed. The timber deed purchase price has been and will be reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as an outflow under Cash Provided by Operating Activities.Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures were as follows for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2011 2010 2009Capital Expenditures (Excluding Timberland Acquisitions) $70 $71 $61Expenditures for Real Estate Development 3 2 1Total Capital Expenditures $73 $73 $62 Planned capital expenditures for 2012 (excluding timberland and mineral acquisitions) are expected to be approximately $80 million and include approximately $65 million for our timberlands, $4 million for our manufacturing facilities, $5 million for real estate development investments, and $6 million for investments in information technology. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Approximately 55% of planned capital expenditures in 2012 are discretionary, primarily expenditures for silviculture. Capital expenditures at our manufacturing facilities consist primarily of expenditures to sustain operating activities. Timberland Acquisitions. During 2011, the company acquired 59,000 acres of timberlands primarily located in Alabama and Georgia and mineral reserves in Oregon for a total of $101 million. These purchases were financed primarily from our line of credit and have been accounted for as asset acquisitions. There were no significant timberland acquisitions in 2010 or 2009. Future Cash Requirements. Cash required to meet our future financial needs will be significant. In 2012, we have $353 million of scheduled debt principal payments. Additionally, in January 2013, we have a $174 million scheduled debt principal payment. We expect to refinance these debt obligations prior to maturity at favorable rates. Furthermore, we believe that our cash flows from continuing operations and current cash on hand will be sufficient to fund 2012 planned capital expenditures, interest payments on our indebtedness and our dividend. PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 50Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Sources and Uses of Cash. The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2011 2010 2009Sources of Cash: Operations (A) $337 $402 $437Changes in Working Capital (8) (4) 61Cash Distributions from Timberland Venture 56 57 53Cash from Stock Option Exercises 10 2 Cash from Sale of Properties and Other Assets 13 1Increase Debt Obligations, net 87 Other Cash Changes, net (B) 2 Total Sources of Cash 482 472 552Uses of Cash: Returned to Stockholders: Dividends (272) (272) (275)Common Stock Repurchases (26) (51) (87)Reinvest in the Business: Timber Deed Acquired (5) Capital Expenditures, including Real Estate Development (C) (73) (73) (62)Timberlands and Minerals Acquired (101) (1)Meet our Pension Obligations: Pension Contributions (3) (4) (10)Purchases of Marketable Securities (2) (3)Reduce Debt Obligations, net (117) (184)Total Uses of Cash (480) (519) (622)Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents $2 $(47) $(70) (A) Calculated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows by adding Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization, Basis of Real Estate Sold, Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture, Gain on Sales of Properties and Other Assets, (Gain) Loss on Extinguishment of Debt, Deferred Revenue from Long Term Gas Leases (Net of Amortization), Deferred Income Taxes and Other Operating Activities (excluding Expenditures for Real Estate Development see discussion in Footnote B below) to Net Income. (B) From the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Other Investing Activities.(C) See Capital Expenditures section above for calculation. Expenditures for Real Estate Development are included in Other Operating Activities, net. BorrowingsDebt Financing. We strive to maintain a balance sheet that provides the financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives. In order to maintain this financial flexibility, our objective is to maintain an investment grade credit rating. This is reflected in our moderate use of debt, established access to credit markets and no material covenant restrictions in our debt agreements that would prevent us from prudently using debt capital. All of our borrowings, except for the Note Payable to Timberland Venture, are made by Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., the companys wholly owned operating partnership (the Partnership). Furthermore, all of the outstanding indebtedness of the Partnership is unsecured.Line of Credit. We have a $600 million revolving line of credit agreement that matures January 30, 2015. As of December 31, 2011, the weighted average interest rate for the borrowings on the line of credit was 1.71%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 1.50%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 1.275% to LIBOR plus 2% depending on our debt ratings. In addition to interest expense on outstanding borrowings, we pay an annual facility PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 51Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 fee equal to 0.25% that can vary depending on debt rating. Facility fees were $2 million in 2011 and $1 million in 2010. Subject to customary covenants, the line of credit allows for borrowings from time to time up to $600 million, including up to $100 million of standby letters of credit. Borrowings on the line of credit fluctuate daily based on cash needs. As of December 31, 2011, we had $348 million of borrowings and $2 million of standby letters of credit outstanding; $250 million remained available for borrowing under our line of credit. As of January 3, 2012, $251 million of the borrowings under our line of credit was repaid. Term Credit Agreement. The company has a $350 million term credit agreement that matures July 10, 2012. As of December 31, 2011, the interest rate for the term credit agreement was 0.65%. The interest rate is based on LIBOR plus 0.375%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. The term credit agreement is subject to covenants that are substantially the same as those of the line of credit. The agreement allows for prepayment of the borrowings at any time prior to the maturity date without premium or penalty. Senior Notes. The company has outstanding Senior Notes with various maturities and fixed interest rates. As of December 31, 2011, the company had $263 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding that are privately placed borrowings with various lenders (Private Debt). The Private Debt matures serially through 2016.As of December 31, 2011, the company had publicly issued and outstanding $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes (Public Debt). The Public Debt consists of $575 million aggregate principal amount of 4.70% Public Debt which matures in 2021 and 5.875% Public Debt with an aggregate principal amount of $458 million which matures in 2015. The Public Debt is issued by the Partnership and is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc.The Senior Notes are redeemable prior to maturity; however, they are subject to a premium on redemption, which is based upon interest rates of U.S. Treasury securities having similar average maturities. The premium that would have been due upon early retirement approximated $237 million at December 31, 2011 and $164 million at December 31, 2010.The Public Debt is structurally subordinated to all debt and liabilities of the Partnerships subsidiaries to the extent of the value of the assets at the subsidiaries. At December 31, 2011, the total amount of debt and liabilities of the Partnerships subsidiaries was $263 million, all of which was unsecured. In the event of insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution, winding up of the Partnerships business or other similar process, the assets of the Partnerships subsidiaries will be available to pay the amounts due on the Public Debt only after the indebtedness of the Partnerships subsidiaries has been repaid in full.Senior Notes outstanding, including unamortized discount, consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010Senior Notes Public Debt $1,029 $1,029Private Debt 263 358Total Senior Notes $1,292 $1,387 Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. and the Partnership have filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission which expires December 2014. Under the shelf registration statement, Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., from time to time, may offer and sell any combination of preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants and guarantees, and the Partnership, from time to time, may offer and sell debt securities. The company and the Partnership intend to maintain a shelf registration statement with respect to such securities. Note Payable to Timberland Venture. The company has a $783 million note payable to a timberland venture (a related party). The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. During the ten year term of the note, interest is paid quarterly with the principal due upon maturity. The note matures on October 1, 2018 but may be extended until October 1, 2020 at the election of Plum Creek. The note is not redeemable prior to maturity. The note is structurally subordinated to all other indebtedness of the company at December 31, 2011. See Notes 9 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 52Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7 Debt Principal Payments. The table below summarizes the debt principal payments made for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2011 2010Public Debt $ $Private Debt 95 269Term Credit Agreement 250Total $95 $519 During 2010, the company prepaid approximately $213 million of principal of Private Debt. This prepayment resulted in a $13 million loss. The $13 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2010 is classified as Loss on Extinguishment of Debt in the Consolidated Statements of Income.Debt Covenants. Our Senior Notes, Term Credit Agreement and Line of Credit contain various restrictive covenants, none of which are expected to materially impact the financing of our ongoing operations. We are in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2011. Our Line of Credit and Term Credit Agreement require that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. We have no covenants and restrictions associated with changes in our debt ratings. Furthermore, there are no material covenants associated with our Note Payable to Timberland Venture, and this indebtedness is not considered in computing any of our debt covenants since the debt is an obligation of Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. and not the Partnership.The borrowing agreements for the Private Debt include limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or stock repurchases), harvest levels and sales of assets. The restricted payments covenant is based on a computation of available cash, which is generally our net income (excluding gains on the sale of capital assets) after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves, less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. Additionally, the amount of available cash may be increased by the amount of proceeds from the sale of higher and better use properties and, under certain circumstances, by 50% of the amount of net proceeds from the sale of other assets. At December 31, 2011, our entire cash balance of $254 million is available to make restricted payments. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2011, we can borrow the entire amount available under our Line of Credit, and we expect to be able to incur at least this level of additional indebtedness for the next twelve months. EquityDividends. On February 7, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.42 per share, or approximately $68 million, which will be paid on March 2, 2012 to stockholders of record on February 17, 2012. Future dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the prices of and demand for Plum Creeks products, and changes in our ability to sell timberlands at attractive prices. Other factors that our Board of Directors considers include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. Share Repurchases. Plum Creeks Board of Directors has authorized a common stock repurchase program that may be increased from time to time at the Board of Directors discretion. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased 0.7 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $25 million, or an average cost per share of $34.84. At December 31, 2011, $175 million is available for share repurchases under the current Board of Directors authorization. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 53Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7A ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKInterest Rate RiskApproximately $2.1 billion (including $783 million of related party obligations) of Plum Creeks long term debt bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. We also have variable rate debt that is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents contractual principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of the companys debt obligations and the related weighted average contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed and variable rate debt (in millions): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total Fair Value(A)December 31, 2011 Fixed Rate Debt Third Party Obligations Principal Due(B)$3 $250 $3 $462 $3 $575 $1,296 $1,368Average Interest Rate(C)5.5% 5.4% 5.2% 5.2% 4.7% 4.7% Related Party Obligations Principal Due $783 $783 $913 Interest Rate 7.4% Variable Rate Debt(D)$350 $350 $349 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Fair Value December 31, 2010 Fixed Rate Debt Third Party Obligations Principal Due(B)95 $3 $250 $3 $462 $579 $1,392 $1,436Average Interest Rate(C)5.6% 5.5% 5.4% 5.2% 5.2% 4.7% Related Party Obligations Principal Due $783 $783 $885 Interest Rate 7.4% Variable Rate Debt $350 $350 $347(A) The fair value of the companys Public Debt is estimated using market quotes; the fair value of the companys Private Debt with unrelated third parties is estimated using the same rates adjusted for the different maturities. The fair value of the companys Note Payable to Timberland Venture is estimated using the same rates as the Public Debt adjusted by an estimated risk premium for holding company debt and the different maturity. The decrease in fair value of our fixed rate debt compared to December 31, 2010 (excluding related party debt) was due primarily to principal repayments of $95 million of Private Debt during the twelve month period, partially offset by lower market interest rates. The increase in the fair value of our Note Payable to Timberland Venture at December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 was due primarily to lower market interest rates. In December 2011, the decline in treasury rates exceeded the increase in credit spreads (the difference between corporate debt rates and treasury rates) for debt with similar maturities, resulting in an increase in the fair value at December 31, 2011 for both our Private Debt and for our Note Payable to Timberland Venture. The fair value of our floating rate term loan (variable rate debt) as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 was determined by adjusting the spread over LIBOR to a current market spread for comparable debt as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. (B) Excludes unamortized discount of $4 million and $5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.(C) Represents the average interest rate of total fixed rate debt (excluding related party debt) outstanding at the end of the period.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 54Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 7A (D) As of December 31, 2011, the interest rate for the $350 million term credit agreement was 0.65%. The interest rate on the term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 0.375%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. Not included in the above table are borrowings under our $600 million revolving line of credit of $348 million. As of December 31, 2011, the weighted average interest rate on the $348 million of borrowings was 1.71%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 1.50%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 1.275% to LIBOR plus 2% depending on our debt ratings. As of January 3, 2012, $251 million of the borrowings under our line of credit was repaid.PLUM CREEK 2011 FORM 10 K | 55Table of ContentsPART II / ITEM 8 
 
