FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20030530161219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5.  Other Events and Required FD Disclosure
 
Segment EBITDA and free cash flow could be considered non-GAAP financial measures in certain circumstances. These measures were included in the Company's Form 8-K dated January 16, 2003, but were not reconciled to the nearest GAAP measure as is now required under Regulation G.  As the January 16, 2003 Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into the Company's registration statements, the Company has filed the reconciliation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7.  Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
        (c)   Exhibits.
 
        99.1         EBITDA Reconciliation Information
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  May 30, 2003
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
EBITDA Reconciliation Information
 
Segment EBITDA and free cash flow could be considered non-GAAP financial measures in certain circumstances. A non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that excludes (includes) amounts that are not normally excluded (included) in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. In order to fully assess our financial operating results, management believes that segment EBITDA and free cash flow are appropriate measures of evaluating our operating performance. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, operating income, cash flows or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These measures were included in our Form 8-K dated January 16, 2003 but not reconciled to the nearest corresponding GAAP measure as is now required under Regulation G. The following table reconciles these measures to the appropriate GAAP measures:
 
 
 


