FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20060322163247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
   
 
Item 1.01
              
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
 
On March 17, 2006, the Board of Directors of Yahoo! Inc. (the "Company"), in connection with certain amendments to Company's amended and restated bylaws, as discussed under Item 5.03 below, approved a new form of indemnification agreement attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto (the "Amended Indemnification Agreement").  In addition, the Board authorized the Company to enter into the Amended Indemnification Agreements with each of its directors and executive officers to replace the indemnification agreements currently in effect between the Company and each such director and executive officer.
 
The Amended Indemnification Agreement provides, among other things, that, subject to the procedures set forth in the Amended Indemnification Agreement: (i) the Company will indemnify the Indemnitee (as defined in the Amended Indemnification Agreement) to the fullest extent permitted by law in the event Indemnitee was, is or becomes a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, a Claim (as defined in the Amended Indemnification Agreement) by reason of (or arising in part out of) an Indemnifiable Event (as defined in the Amended Indemnification Agreement); (ii) if requested by Indemnitee, and subject to certain exceptions, the Company will advance Expenses (as defined in the Indemnification Agreement) to the Indemnitee; (iii) if there is a Change of Control (as defined in the Amended Indemnification Agreement), the Company will seek the advice of independent legal counsel with respect to all matters thereafter arising concerning the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity payments and advances under the Amended Indemnification Agreement or any provision of the Company's charter or bylaws; (iv) the rights of the Indemnitee under the Amended Indemnification Agreement are in addition to any other rights the Indemnitee may have under the Company's charter or bylaws or the Delaware General Corporation Law or otherwise; and (v) to the extent the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing directors' and officers' liability insurance, the Indemnitee will be covered to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any Company director or officer.  In addition, the Amended Indemnification Agreement establishes guidelines as to the defense and settlement of claims by the parties, the relevant burden of proof, reliance as a safe harbor, the period of limitations and security.
 
The foregoing summary of the Amended Indemnification Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amended Indemnification Agreement attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 5.03
             
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS; CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR
 
(a)  Amendment to Bylaws.
 
On March 17, 2006, the Board of Directors of Yahoo! Inc. (the "Company") approved an amendment and restatement of the Company's bylaws (the "Bylaws" and as amended and restated, the "Amended Bylaws").
 
The Amended Bylaws deleted Section 3.12 (Approval of Loans to Officers), Section 7.3 (Annual Statement of Stockholders) and Section 8.12 (Registered Stockholders) of
the prior Bylaws.  These provisions were deleted because they were no longer applicable or believed to be necessary.
 
The Amended Bylaws also added a number of provisions, including Section 2.14 (List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote), Section 2.15 (Stock Ledger), Section 2.16 (Inspectors of Election), Section 3.14 (Interested Directors) and Section 8.12 (Transfer Agent). These provisions are designed, among other things, to facilitate conduct of stockholder meetings and lawful board actions.
 
The Amended Bylaws also modified a number of provisions of the prior Bylaws, including Section 2.1 (Place of Meetings), Section 2.2 (Annual Meeting), Section 2.3 (Special Meeting), Section 2.4 (Notice of Stockholder Meetings; Affidavit of Notice), Section 2.5 (Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees), Section 2.6 (Advance Notice Provision for Proposing Business at the Annual Meeting), Section 2.7 (Quorum), Section 2.8 (Adjourned Meeting; Notice), Section 2.9 (Conduct of Business), Section 2.10 (Voting), Section 2.11 (Waiver of Notice) and Section 2.13 (Proxies).  These provisions were modified to, among other things, facilitate orderly stockholder meetings, including, if desired, by electronic means.  In this regard, the Amended Bylaws now require that a stockholder of the Company seeking to make director nominations or to propose any other business at an annual meeting of the Company's stockholders give notice to the Secretary of the Company at least 90 days and not more than 120 days prior to the anniversary date of the prior year's annual meeting of stockholders.
 
In addition, the Amended Bylaws modified a number of provisions relating to the appointment, authority, duties and conduct of directors and officers, including Section 3.1 (Powers), Section 3.2 (Number of Directors), Section 3.3 (Election, Qualification and Term of Office of Directors), Section 3.4 (Resignation and Vacancies), Section 3.5 (Place of Meetings; Meetings by Telephone or Remote Communication), Section 3.6 (Regular Meetings), Section 3.7 (Special Meetings; Notice), Section 3.10 (Board Action by Written Consent without a Meeting), Section 3.11 (Fees and Compensation of Directors), Section 3.12 (Removal of Directors), Section 4.1 (Committees of Directors), Section 5.1 (Officers), Section 5.2 (Appointment of Officers), Section 5.3 (Subordinate Officers), Section 5.4 (Removal and Resignation of Officers), Section 5.5 (Vacancies in Offices), Section 5.6 (Chief Executive Officer), Section 5.9 (Secretary) and Section 5.12 (Authority and Duties of Officers).
 
The Amended Bylaws also modified Article VI (Indemnification of Directors, Officers, Employees and other Agents) to update the Company's obligations with respect to indemnification of its directors, officers, employees and agents to reflect current practices.  As well, provisions such as Section 1.1 (Registered Office), Section 7.1 (Maintenance and Inspection of Records), Section 8.3 (Share Certificates and Uncertificated Shares), Section 8.4 (Special Designation on Certificates), Section 8.5 (Lost Certificates), Section 8.7 (Dividends) and Section 8.10 (Transfer of Stock) were modified. These changes were designed, among other things, to update the Company's registered office in the State of Delaware, permit the Company to issue uncertificated shares and facilitate the maintenance of orderly books and records by the Company.  In addition, Article IX (Amendments) was modified to make clear that, subject to the provisions of the Company's certificate of incorporation, the Amended Bylaws may be amended upon approval by a majority of the Company's capital stock or by a majority of the entire board.
The descriptions of the changes and the new provisions of the Amended Bylaws contained in this report are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the prior Bylaws, a copy of which was filed with the Commission on March 5, 2002 as Exhibit 4.9 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 and incorporated herein by reference, and the new Amended Bylaws, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)
          
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
BYLAWS
 
OF
 
YAHOO! INC.
 
ARTICLE I
 
CORPORATE OFFICES
 
1.1
                              
Registered Office.
 
The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.  The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
 
1.2
                              
Other Offices.
 
The Board of Directors may at any time establish other offices at any place or places where the Corporation is qualified to do business.
 
ARTICLE II
 
MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS
 
2.1
                              
Place of Meetings.
 
Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place, within or outside the State of Delaware, designated by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that a meeting of the stockholders shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication in the manner authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL").  In the absence of any designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation.
 
2.2
                              
Annual Meeting.
 
The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the Board of Directors.  At the meeting, directors shall be elected and any other proper business may be transacted.
 
2.3
                              
Special Meeting.
 
A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time only by the Board of Directors, or by the chairman of the board, or by the chief executive officer.  At a special meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto).
 
2.4
                              
Notice of Stockholder Meetings; Affidavit of Notice.
 
All notices of meetings of stockholders shall be in writing and shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with this Section 2.4 of these Bylaws not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting (or such longer or shorter time as is required by Sections 2.5 or 2.6 of these Bylaws, if applicable).  The notice shall specify the place, if any, date, and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.
 
Written notice of any meeting of stockholders, if mailed, is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at the address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.  An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary or of the transfer agent of the Corporation that the notice has been given shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
 
To the extent permitted by the DGCL and without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders given by the Corporation under applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission if consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given.  Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the Corporation.  Any such consent shall be deemed to be revoked if (a) the Corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission 2 consecutive notices by the Corporation in accordance with such consent and (b) such inability becomes known to the secretary or assistant secretary of the Corporation or to the transfer agent, or other person responsible for the giving of notice; provided, however, that the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action.  Notice given by electronic transmission, as described above, shall be deemed given: (i) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (ii) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (iii) if by a posting on an electronic network, together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (iv) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder.
 
For purposes of Sections 2.5 and 2.6, "public announcement" of the date of a meeting of stockholders shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by Business Wire, Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service.  "Electronic transmission" shall mean any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
2.5
                              
Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees.
 
Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.5 shall be eligible for election as directors.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of such stockholder's notice provided for in this Section 2.5, who is entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.5.  In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the secretary of the Corporation.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) in the case of the annual meeting not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within 25 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10 day following the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or such public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made, whichever first occurs; and (b) in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the 10 day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public announcement of the date of the special meeting is first made, whichever first occurs; provided, however that with respect to the 2006 annual meeting, a stockholder's notice must be received by the secretary not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the 2006 annual meeting; provided, further, that in the event less than 60 days' notice or prior public announcement of the date of the 2006 annual meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice of a stockholder nomination must be received no later than the close of business on the 10 day following the day on which the notice or public announcement of the date of the meeting is mailed or made, whichever first occurs.  To be in proper written form, such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person; (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person; (iii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person; and (iv) any other information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including, without limitation, such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such stockholder, and of such beneficial owner; (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such stockholder and such beneficial owner; (iii) a description of any arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person (including their names) pursuant to which the
th
th
th
nomination(s) are to be made by such stockholder and such beneficial owner; (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice; and (v) any other information relating to such stockholder and such beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or may otherwise be required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.  No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.5.  The chairperson of the meeting shall determine whether a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the Bylaws, and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
2.6
                              
Advance Notice Provision for Proposing Business at the Annual Meeting.
 
(a)
                                 
No business may be transacted by the stockholders other than at a duly called meeting of stockholders (i) pursuant to the Corporation's notice with respect to such meeting; (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors; or (iii) at the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of such stockholder's notice provided for in this Section 2.6, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.6.
 
(b)
                                
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a) of this Section 2.6, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the secretary of the Corporation and such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under the DGCL.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within 25 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10 day following the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was made or such public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made, whichever first occurs; provided, however, that with respect to the 2006 annual meeting, a stockholder's notice must be received by the secretary not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, further, that in the event that the date of the 2006 annual meeting is more than 30 days prior to or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, a stockholder's notice must be received not earlier than the close of business on the 90 day prior to the 2006 annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the 60 day prior to the 2006 annual meeting or the close of business on the 10 day following the day on which the notice or public announcement of the date of the meeting is mailed or made, whichever first occurs.  To be in proper written form, such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (a) as to each matter that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting (i) a brief description of such business; and (ii) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made (i) the name and address of such
th
th
th
th
stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner; (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such stockholder and such beneficial owner; (iii) a description of any arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholders and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the such beneficial owner; (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting; and (v) any other information relating to such stockholder and such beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for such matters, or may otherwise be required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
(c)
                                 
Only such business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.6.  The chairperson of the meeting shall determine whether any business proposed to be transacted by the stockholders has not been properly brought before the meeting and, if he or she should so determine, the chairperson shall declare that such proposed business or was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be presented for stockholder action at the meeting.
 
2.7
                              
Quorum.
 
The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation.  A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum.  If, however, such quorum is not present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, then either (a) the chairperson of the meeting or (b) the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in the manner provided in Section 2.8, until a quorum is present or represented.
 
2.8
                              
Adjourned Meeting; Notice.
 
Any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place.  When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, unless these Bylaws otherwise require, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any, thereof and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business that might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting in accordance with Section 2.4.
2.9
                              
Conduct of Business.
 
The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of any meeting of the stockholders as it shall deem appropriate.  Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairperson and secretary of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairperson or secretary, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting.  Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairperson of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) the determination of when the polls shall open and close for any given matter or matters to be voted on at the meeting; (iii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iv) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairperson of the meeting shall determine; (v) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (vi) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants.
 
2.10
                       
Voting.
 
(a)
                                 
The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.12 of these Bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 217 and 218 of the DGCL (relating to voting rights of fiduciaries, pledgors and joint owners of stock and to voting trusts and other voting agreements).
 
(b)
                                
Except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share of capital stock held by such stockholder.
 
(c)
                                 
Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any question brought before any meeting of the stockholders, other than the election of directors, shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority of the Corporation's capital stock represented and entitled to vote thereat, voting as a single class.  Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy as provided in Section 2.13.
 
2.11
                       
Waiver of Notice.
 
Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of the DGCL or of the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person or persons entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice.  Attendance of a person at a meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the
purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
 
2.12
                       
Record Date for Stockholder Notice; Voting.
 
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. If the Board of Directors does not so fix a record date:
 
(a)
                                 
The record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
 
(b)
                                
The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
 
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
2.13
                       
Proxies.
 
Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by a written proxy, signed by the stockholder and filed with the secretary of the Corporation, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.  A proxy shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission or other means of electronic transmission) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact.  The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Section 212(e) of the DGCL.
 
2.14
                       
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote. 
 
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either (a) at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the principal executive offices of the
Corporation, or (b) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting.  In the event that the Corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the Corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the Corporation.  If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.  If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
 
2.15
                       
Stock Ledger.
 
The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to (i) examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 2.14 or the books of the Corporation; (ii) to receive dividends; or (iii) to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.  The Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of another person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise required by applicable law.
 
2.16
                       
Inspectors of Election.
 
In advance of any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors, by resolution, the chairman of the board or the president shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof.  One or more other persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act.  If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the chairperson of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting.  Unless otherwise required by applicable law, inspectors may be, among other things, officers, employees or agents of the Corporation.  Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of inspector, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of such inspector's ability.  The inspector shall have the duties prescribed by law and shall take charge of the polls and, when the vote is completed, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken and of such other facts as may be required by applicable law.
 
ARTICLE III
 
DIRECTORS
 
3.1
                              
Powers.
 
Subject to the provisions of the DGCL and any limitations in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders, the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.
3.2
                              
Number of Directors.
 
The number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors shall initially be ten.  Thereafter, this number may be changed by a resolution of the Board of Directors, subject to Section 3.4 of these Bylaws.  No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director before such director's term of office expires.
 
3.3
                              
Election, Qualification and Term of Office of Directors.
 
Except as provided in Section 3.4 of these Bylaws, directors shall be elected by a plurality of votes cast at each annual meeting of stockholders to hold office until the next annual meeting.  Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, wherein other qualifications for directors may be prescribed.  Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.  Elections of directors need not be by written ballot.
 
3.4
                              
Resignation and Vacancies.
 
Any director may resign at any time upon written notice or by electronic transmission to the attention of the secretary of the Corporation.  Such notice shall take effect at the time therein specified or, if no time is specified immediately, and, unless specified in such notice, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  When one or more directors so resigns and the resignation is effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each director so chosen shall hold office as provided in this section in the filling of other vacancies.  Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified.
 
Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws:
 
(a)
                                 
Vacancies arising through death, resignation, removal, an increase in the number of directors or otherwise may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal.
 
(b)
                                
Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole remaining director so elected.
 
If at any time, by reason of death, resignation, removal or other cause, the Corporation should have no directors in office, then any officer or any stockholder or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of a stockholder, or other fiduciary entrusted with
like responsibility for the person or estate of a stockholder, may call a special meeting of stockholders in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, or may apply to the Court of Chancery for a decree summarily ordering an election as provided in Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
 
3.5
                              
Place of Meetings; Meetings by Telephone or Remote Communication.
 
The Board of Directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or outside the State of Delaware.
 
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee, by means of conference telephone or other remote communication by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
 
3.6
                              
Regular Meetings.
 
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as shall from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors.
 
3.7
                              
Special Meetings; Notice.
 
Special meetings of the Board of Directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the chairman of the board, the president, the secretary or any two or more directors.
 
Notice of the time and place of special meetings may be given personally or by mail, telegram, telex, facsimile, cable or by means of electronic transmission.  If the notice is mailed, it shall be sent by first class mail or telegram, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that director's address as it is shown on the records of the Corporation and deposited in the United States mail at least four days before the time of the holding of the meeting.  If the notice is delivered personally or by telephone, telegram, telex, facsimile, cable or electronic means it shall be delivered by such means at least 24 hours before the time of the holding of the meeting, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate under the circumstances.  Notice given by electronic transmission shall be deemed given: (i) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the director has consented to receive notice; (ii) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the director has consented to receive notice; (iii) if by a posting on an electronic network, together with separate notice to the director of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (iv) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the director.  Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the
director.  The notice need not specify (a) the purpose or (b) the place of the meeting, if the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the Corporation.
 
3.8
                              
Quorum.
 
At all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation.  If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, then the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present.
 
A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for that meeting.
 
3.9
                              
Waiver of Notice.
 
Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of the DGCL or of the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice.  Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the directors, or members of a committee of directors, need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
 
3.10
                       
Board Action by Written Consent without a Meeting.
 
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.  Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.  Written consents representing actions taken by the board or committee may be executed by telex, telecopy or other facsimile transmission, and such facsimile shall be valid and binding to the same extent as if it were an original.
 
3.11
                       
Fees and Compensation of Directors.
 
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws or applicable law, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of
directors.  No such compensation shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
 
3.12
                       
Removal of Directors.
 
Unless otherwise restricted by applicable law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws, any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed from office, with or without cause, only by the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
 
No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director prior to the expiration of such director's term of office.
 
3.13
                       
Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors.
 
The Corporation may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, a chairman of the board and a vice chairman of the board, who shall not be considered officers of the Corporation.
 
3.14
                       
Interested Directors.
 
No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because any such director's or officer's vote is counted for such purpose if: (a) the material facts as to the director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (b) the material facts as to the director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (c) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
ARTICLE IV
 
COMMITTEES
 
4.1
                              
Committees of Directors.
 
The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, with each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee.  In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.  Any such committee, to the extent permitted by law or provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors establishing such committee, in any subsequent resolution of the Board of Directors or in the Bylaws of the Corporation, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers that may require it.  The provisions of this Section 4.1 shall in no way limit the ability of the Board of Directors to designate such other committees in any manner permitted by applicable law.
 
4.2
                              
Committee Minutes.
 
Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required.
 
4.3
                              
Meetings and Action of Committees.
 
Meetings and actions of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Section 3.5 (place of meetings and meetings by telephone), Section 3.6 (regular meetings), Section 3.7 (special meetings and notice), Section 3.8 (quorum), Section 3.9 (waiver of notice), and Section 3.10 (board action without a meeting) of these Bylaws, with such changes in the context of such provisions as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the Board of Directors and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of committees may be determined either by resolution of the Board of Directors or by resolution of the committee, that special meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the Board of Directors and that notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee.  The Board of Directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these Bylaws.
ARTICLE V
 
OFFICERS
 
5.1
                              
Officers.
 
The officers of the Corporation shall be a chief executive officer, a president, a secretary, and a chief financial officer.  The Corporation may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, one or more vice presidents, one or more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers, and any such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these Bylaws.  Any number of offices may be held by the same person unless otherwise prohibited by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
 
5.2
                              
Appointment of Officers.
 
The officers of the Corporation, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Sections 5.3 or 5.5 of these Bylaws, shall be appointed by the Board of Directors, subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment.  Such officers shall exercise such powers, perform such duties and hold office for such terms as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, until such officer's successor is elected and qualified, or until such officer's earlier death, resignation or removal.
 
5.3
                              
Subordinate Officers.
 
The Board of Directors may appoint, or empower the chief executive officer, the president or any other officer of the Corporation to appoint, such other officers and agents as the business of the Corporation may require, each of whom shall perform such duties, have such authority, and hold office for such period as provided in these Bylaws, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine, until such officer's successor is elected and qualified, or until such officer's earlier death, resignation or removal.
 
5.4
                              
Removal and Resignation of Officers.
 
Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by an affirmative vote of the majority of the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or, except in the case of an officer chosen by the Board of Directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors.
 
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice, or by electronic transmission, to the attention of the secretary of the Corporation.  Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice; and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the Corporation under any contract to which the officer is a party.
5.5
                              
Vacancies in Offices.
 
Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors or by any officer upon whom such power may be conferred by the Board of Directors.
 
5.6
                              
Chief Executive Officer.
 
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the chairman of the board, if any, the chief executive officer of the Corporation shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and the officers of the Corporation.  He or she, or his or her designee, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a chairman of the board, at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of chief executive officer of a corporation and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
 
5.7
                              
President.
 
Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the chairman of the board, if any, or the chief executive officer, the president shall have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and other officers of the Corporation.  He or she shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a corporation and such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
 
5.8
                              
Vice Presidents.
 
In the absence or disability of the chief executive officer and president, the vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform all the duties of the president and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president.  The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors, these Bylaws, the president or the chairman of the board.
 
5.9
                              
Secretary.
 
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the Corporation or such other place as the Board of Directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors, and stockholders.  The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof.
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the Corporation or at the office of the Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates (if any) evidencing such shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every such certificate surrendered for cancellation.
 
The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors required to be given by law or by these Bylaws.  He or she shall keep the seal of the Corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by these Bylaws.
 
5.10
                       
Chief Financial Officer.
 
The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital retained earnings, and shares.  The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.
 
The chief financial officer shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation with such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. He or she shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the president, the chief executive officer, or the directors, upon request, an account of all his or her transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and shall have other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Bylaws.
 
5.11
                       
Representation of Shares of Other Corporations.
 
The chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the president, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the secretary or assistant secretary of this Corporation, or any other person authorized by the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer or the president or a vice president, is authorized to vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of this Corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this Corporation.  The authority granted herein may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by the person having such authority.
 
5.12
                       
Authority and Duties of Officers.
 
In addition to the foregoing authority and duties, all officers of the Corporation shall respectively have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the business of the Corporation as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
ARTICLE VI
 
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND OTHER AGENTS
 
The Corporation shall indemnify its directors and officers to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by applicable law, as now or hereafter in effect, and such right to indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer of the Corporation and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and personal and legal representatives; provided, however, that, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer (or his or her heirs, executors or personal or legal representatives) in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors.  The right to indemnification conferred by this Article VI shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending or otherwise participating in any proceeding in advance of its final disposition upon receipt by the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director or officer receiving advancement to repay the amount advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation under this Article VI.
 
For purposes of this Article VI, a "director" or "officer" of the Corporation includes any person (a) who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, (b) who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (c) who was a director or officer of a Corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the Corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.  The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this Article VI to directors and officers of the Corporation.
 
The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Article VI shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under this Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws of the Corporation, any statute, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
 
Any repeal or modification of this Article VI by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses of a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification with respect to any acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification.
ARTICLE VII
 
RECORDS AND REPORTS
 
7.1
                              
Maintenance and Inspection of Records.
 
The Corporation shall, either at its principal executive offices or at such place or places as designated by the Board of Directors, keep a record of its stockholders listing their names and addresses and the number and class of shares held by each stockholder, a copy of these Bylaws as amended to date, accounting books, and other records.
 
To the extent required by the DGCL, any stockholder of record, in person or by attorney or other agent, shall, upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have the right during the usual hours for business to inspect for any proper purpose the Corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records and to make copies or extracts therefrom.  A proper purpose shall mean a purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder.  In every instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right to inspection, the demand under oath shall be accompanied by a power of attorney or such other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of the stockholder.  The demand under oath shall be directed to the Corporation at its registered office in Delaware or at its principal executive offices.
 
7.2
                              
Inspection by Directors.
 
Any director shall have the right to examine the Corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records for a purpose reasonably related to his or her position as a director.  The Court of Chancery is hereby vested with the exclusive jurisdiction to determine whether a director is entitled to the inspection sought.  The Court may summarily order the Corporation to permit the director to inspect any and all books and records, the stock ledger, and the stock list and to make copies or extracts therefrom.  The Court may, in its discretion, prescribe any limitations or conditions with reference to the inspection, or award such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.
 
ARTICLE VIII
 
GENERAL MATTERS
 
8.1
.
                              
Disbursements
 
From time to time, the Board of Directors shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the Corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.
8.2
                              
Execution of Corporate Contracts and Instruments.
 
The Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation; such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.  Unless so authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
 
8.3
                              
Share Certificates and Uncertificated Shares.
 
The shares of the Corporation may be represented by certificates or uncertificated,  as provided under the DGCL.  Every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the chairman or vice-chairman of the Board of Directors, or the chief executive officer or the president or vice-president, and by the chief financial officer or an assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form.  Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be an officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
The Corporation may issue the whole or any part of its shares as partly paid and subject to call for the remainder of the consideration to be paid therefor.  Upon the face or back of each stock certificate issued to represent any such partly paid shares, upon the books and records of the Corporation in the case of uncertificated partly paid shares, the total amount of the consideration to be paid therefor and the amount paid thereon shall be stated.  Upon the declaration of any dividend on fully paid shares, the Corporation shall declare a dividend upon partly paid shares of the same class, but only upon the basis of the percentage of the consideration actually paid thereon.
8.4
                              
Special Designation on Certificates.
 
If the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate (if any) that the Corporation may issue to represent such class or series of stock; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the DGCL, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the face or back of such certificate (if any) that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
8.5
                              
Lost Certificates.
 
Except as provided in this Section 8.5, no new certificates for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the Corporation and canceled at the same time.  The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in the place of any certificate previously issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or the owner's legal representative, upon the making of an affidavit of fact by the person claiming the stock certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate or uncertificated shares.
 
8.6
                              
Construction; Definitions.
 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the DGCL shall govern the construction of these Bylaws.  Without limiting the generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes both a corporation and a natural person.
 
8.7
                              
Dividends.
 
The Board of Directors, subject to any restrictions contained in (a) the DGCL; or (b) the Certificate of Incorporation, may declare and pay dividends upon the shares of its capital stock.  Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock.
 
The Board of Directors may set apart out of any of the funds of the Corporation available for dividends a reserve or reserves for any proper purpose and may abolish or modify any such reserve. Such purposes shall include but not be limited to equalizing dividends, repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, and meeting contingencies.
8.8
                              
Fiscal Year.
 
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors and may be changed by the Board of Directors.
 
8.9
                              
Seal.
 
The Corporation may adopt a corporate seal, which may be altered at pleasure, and may use the same by causing it or a facsimile thereof, to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
 
8.10
                       
Transfer of Stock.
 
Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by applicable law and in these Bylaws.  Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof or by such person's attorney authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the secretary or transfer agent of the Company, and in the case of stock represented by a certificate, upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, properly endorsed for transfer or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power and payment of all necessary transfer taxes; provided, however, that such surrender and endorsement or payment of taxes shall not be required in any case in which the officers of the Corporation shall determine to waive such requirement.  In the case of stock represented by a certificate, every certificate exchanged, returned or surrendered to the Corporation shall be marked "Cancelled," with the date of cancellation, by the secretary or assistant secretary of the Corporation or the transfer agent thereof.  No transfer of stock shall be valid as against the Corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
 
8.11
                       
Stock Transfer Agreements.
 
The Corporation shall have power to enter into and perform any agreement with any number of stockholders of any one or more classes of stock of the Corporation to restrict the transfer of shares of stock of the Corporation of any one or more classes owned by such stockholders in any manner not prohibited by the DGCL.
 
8.12
.
                       
Transfer Agent
 
The Corporation may from time to time maintain one or more transfer offices or agencies and registry offices or agencies at such place or places as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
ARTICLE IX
 
AMENDMENTS
 
Subject to the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws may be adopted, amended or repealed by the stockholders entitled to vote or by the Board of Directors. The fact that such power has been so conferred upon the Board of Directors shall not divest the stockholders of the power, nor limit their power to adopt, amend or repeal Bylaws.  All such amendments must be approved by either the holders of a majority of the capital stock entitled to vote thereon or by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation.

Exhibit 10.1
 
AGREEMENT, dated as of                        , 200  between Yahoo! Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and                                     ("Indemnitee").
 
WHEREAS, it is essential to the Company to retain and attract as directors and officers the most capable persons available.
 
WHEREAS, Indemnitee is a director and/or officer of the Company.
 
WHEREAS, both the Company and Indemnitee recognize the increased risk of litigation and other claims being asserted against directors and officers of public companies in today's environment.
 
WHEREAS, basic protection against undue risk of personal liability of directors and officers heretofore has been provided through insurance coverage providing reasonable protection at reasonable cost, and Indemnitee has relied on the availability of such coverage; but as a result of substantial changes in the marketplace for such insurance it has become increasingly more difficult to obtain such insurance on terms providing reasonable protection at reasonable cost.
 
WHEREAS, the Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Company contemplate indemnification and advancement of expenses to its directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by law and the Indemnitee has been serving and continues to serve as a director and/or officer of the Company in part in reliance on such Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws.
 
WHEREAS, the current difficulty in obtaining adequate director and officer liability insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and uncertainties as to the availability of indemnification created by recent court decisions have increased the risk that the Company will be unable to retain and attract as directors and officers the most capable persons available.
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that the inability of the Company to retain and attract as directors and officers the most capable persons would be detrimental to the interests of the Company and that the Company therefore should seek to assure such persons that indemnification and insurance coverage will be available in the future.
 
WHEREAS, in recognition of Indemnitee's need for substantial protection against personal liability in order to enhance Indemnitee's continued service to the Company in an effective manner, and Indemnitee's reliance on the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and in part to provide Indemnitee with specific contractual assurance that the protection promised by such Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws will be available to Indemnitee (regardless of, among other things, any amendment to or revocation of such Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or any change in the
 
composition of the Company's Board of Directors or acquisition transaction relating to the Company), the Company wishes to provide in this Agreement for the indemnification of and the advancing of expenses to Indemnitee to the fullest extent (whether partial or complete) permitted by law and as set forth in this Agreement, and, to the extent insurance is maintained, for the continued coverage of Indemnitee under the Company's directors' and officers' liability insurance policies.
 
In consideration of the premises and of Indemnitee continuing to serve the Company directly or, at its request, another enterprise, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.
                                     
Certain Definitions
.  In addition to terms defined elsewhere herein, the following terms have the following meanings when used in this Agreement:
 
(a)
                                
Change in Control
:  shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing twenty percent (20%) or more of the total voting power represented by the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities, or (ii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company and any new director whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the Voting Securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into Voting Securities of the surviving entity) at least sixty percent (60%) of the total voting power represented by the Voting Securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of (in one transaction or a series of transactions) all or substantially all the Company's assets.
 
(b)
                                
Claim
:  means any threatened, asserted, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, or appeal thereof, or any inquiry or investigation, whether instituted by the Company or any governmental agency or any other party, that Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution of any such action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other, including any arbitration or other alternative dispute resolution mechanism.
(c)
                                 
Expenses
:  include attorneys' fees and all other costs, expenses and obligations (including, without limitation, experts' fees, court costs, retainers, transcript fees, duplicating, printing and binding costs, as well as telecommunications, postage and courier charges) paid or incurred in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in or participating in, or preparing to investigate, defend, be a witness in or participate in, any Claim relating to any Indemnifiable Event.
 
(d)
                                
Indemnifiable Amounts
:  means any and all Expenses, damages, judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes and amounts paid in settlement (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes or amounts paid in settlement) arising out of or resulting from any Claim relating to an Indemnifiable Event.
 
(e)
                                 
Indemnifiable Event
:  means any event or occurrence, whether occurring before, on or after the date of this Agreement, related to the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director and/or officer or fiduciary of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust or other entity or enterprise, or by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacity.
 
(f)
                                  
Independent Legal Counsel
:  means an attorney or firm of attorneys, selected in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 hereof, who is experienced in matters of corporate law and who shall not have otherwise performed services for the Company or Indemnitee within the last five years (other than with respect to matters concerning the rights of Indemnitee under this Agreement, or of other indemnitees under similar indemnity agreements).
 
(g)
                                 
Reviewing Party
:  means any appropriate person or body consisting of a member or members of the Company's Board of Directors or any other person or body appointed by the Board who is not a party to the particular Claim for which Indemnitee is seeking indemnification, or Independent Legal Counsel.
 
(h)
                                
Voting Securities
:  means any securities of the Company which vote generally in the election of directors.
 
2.
                                     
Basic Indemnification Arrangement; Advancement of Expenses
.
 
(a)
                                
In the event Indemnitee was, is or becomes a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, a Claim by reason of (or arising in part out of) an Indemnifiable Event, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law as soon as practicable but in any event no later than thirty days after written demand is presented to the Company, against any and all Indemnifiable Amounts.
 
(b)
                                
If so requested by Indemnitee, the Company shall advance (within five (5) business days of such request) any and all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee (an "Expense Advance").  The Company shall, in accordance with such request (but without
duplication), either (i) pay such Expenses on behalf of Indemnitee, or (ii) reimburse Indemnitee for such Expenses.  Subject to the limitations contained in Sections 2(c) and 2(d), Indemnitee's right to an Expense Advance is absolute and shall not be subject to any prior determination by the Reviewing Party or any other person, that the Indemnitee has satisfied any applicable standard of conduct for indemnification.
 
(c)
                                 
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Indemnitee shall not be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses pursuant to this Agreement in connection with any Claim initiated by Indemnitee unless (i) the Company has joined in or Company's Board of Directors has authorized or consented to the initiation of such Claim or (ii) the Claim is one to enforce Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement.
 
(d)
                                
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, (i) the indemnification obligations of the Company under Section 2(a) shall be subject to the condition that the Reviewing Party shall not have determined (in a written opinion, in any case in which the Independent Legal Counsel referred to in Section 3 hereof is involved) that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law, and (ii) the obligation of the Company to make an Expense Advance pursuant to Section 2(b) shall be subject to the condition that, if, when and to the extent that the Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be so indemnified under applicable law, the Company shall be entitled to be reimbursed by Indemnitee (who hereby agrees to reimburse the Company) for all such amounts theretofore paid (it being understood and agreed that the foregoing agreement by Indemnitee shall be deemed to satisfy any requirement that Indemnitee provide the Company with an undertaking to repay any Expense Advance if it is ultimately determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under applicable law); , , that if Indemnitee has commenced or thereafter commences legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law, any determination made by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law shall not be binding and Indemnitee shall not be required to reimburse the Company for any Expense Advance until a final judicial determination is made with respect thereto (as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed).  Indemnitee's undertaking to repay such Expense Advances shall be unsecured and interest-free.  If there has not been a Change in Control, the Reviewing Party shall be selected by the Company's Board of Directors, and if there has been such a Change in Control, the Reviewing Party shall be the Independent Legal Counsel referred to in Section 3 hereof.  If there has been no determination by the Reviewing Party within thirty days after written demand is presented to the Company or if the Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified in whole or in part under applicable law, Indemnitee shall have the right to commence litigation in any court in the States of California or Delaware having subject matter jurisdiction thereof and in which venue is proper seeking an initial determination by the court or challenging any such determination by the Reviewing Party or any aspect thereof, including the legal or factual bases therefor, and the Company hereby consents to service of process and to appear in any such proceeding.  Any determination by the
provided
however
Reviewing Party otherwise shall be conclusive and binding on the Company and Indemnitee.
 
3.
                                     
Change in Control
.  The Company agrees that if there is a Change in Control of the Company then with respect to all matters thereafter arising concerning the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity payments and Expense Advances under this Agreement or any provision of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws now or hereafter in effect, the Company shall seek legal advice only from Independent Legal Counsel selected by Indemnitee and approved by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably delayed, conditioned or withheld).  Such counsel, among other things, shall render its written opinion to the Company and Indemnitee as to whether and to what extent the Indemnitee would be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law.  The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees and disbursements of the Independent Legal Counsel and to indemnify fully such counsel against any and all expenses (including attorneys' fees), claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.
 
4.
                                     
Indemnification for Additional Expenses
.  The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against any and all Expenses and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall advance such Expenses to Indemnitee subject to and in accordance with Section 2(b), which are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any action brought by Indemnitee for (i) indemnification or an Expense Advance by the Company under this Agreement or any provision of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws now or hereafter in effect and/or (ii) recovery under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, Expense Advance or insurance recovery, as the case may be.
 
5.
                                     
Partial Indemnity, Etc.
  If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of the Expenses or other Indemnifiable Amounts in respect of a Claim but not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled.  Moreover, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any or all Claims relating in whole or in part to an Indemnifiable Event or in defense of any issue or matter therein, including dismissal without prejudice, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith.
 
6.
                                     
Burden of Proof
.  In connection with any determination by the Reviewing Party or otherwise as to whether Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified hereunder the Reviewing Party or court shall presume that the Indemnitee has satisfied the applicable standard of conduct and is entitled to indemnification, and the burden of proof shall be on the Company to establish, by clear and convincing evidence, that Indemnitee is not so entitled.
 
7.
                                     
Reliance as Safe Harbor
.  For purposes of this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably
believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company if Indemnitee's actions or omissions to act are taken in good faith reliance upon the records of the Company, including its financial statements, or upon information, opinions, reports or statements furnished to Indemnitee by the officers or employees of the Company in the course of their duties, or by committees of the Company's Board of Directors, or by any other person (including legal counsel, accountants, consultants and financial advisors) as to matters Indemnitee reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Company.  In addition, the knowledge and/or actions, or failures to act, of any director, officer, agent or employee of the Company shall not be imputed to Indemnitee for purposes of determining the right to indemnity hereunder.
 
8.
                                     
No Other Presumptions
.  For purposes of this Agreement, the termination of any claim, action, suit or proceeding, by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of , or its equivalent, shall not create a presumption that Indemnitee did not meet any particular standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law.  In addition, neither the failure of the Reviewing Party to have made a determination as to whether Indemnitee has met any particular standard of conduct or had any particular belief, nor an actual determination by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee has not met such standard of conduct or did not have such belief, prior to the commencement of legal proceedings by Indemnitee to secure a judicial determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law shall be a defense to Indemnitee's claim or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met any particular standard of conduct or did not have any particular belief.
nolo contendere
 
9.
                                     
Nonexclusivity, Etc.
  The rights of the Indemnitee hereunder shall be in addition to any other rights Indemnitee may have under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or the Delaware General Corporation Law or otherwise.  To the extent that a change in applicable law (whether by statute or judicial decision) permits greater indemnification by agreement than would be afforded currently under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change.
 
10.
                              
Liability Insurance
.  To the extent the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing directors' and officers' liability insurance, Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies, in accordance with its or their terms, to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any Company director or officer.
 
11.
                              
Period of Limitations
.  No legal action shall be brought and no cause of action shall be asserted by or in the right of the Company against Indemnitee, Indemnitee's spouse, heirs, executors or personal or legal representatives after the expiration of two years from the date of accrual of such cause of action, and any claim or cause of action of the Company shall be extinguished and deemed released unless asserted by the timely filing of a legal action within such two-year period; ,
provided
however
, that if any shorter period of limitations is otherwise applicable to any such cause of action such shorter period shall govern.
12.
                              
Amendments, Etc.
  No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto.  No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
 
13.
                              
Subrogation
.  In the event of payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers reasonably required and shall do everything that may be reasonably necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.
 
14.
                              
No Duplication of Payments
.  The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment in connection with any Claim made against Indemnitee to the extent Indemnitee has otherwise actually received payment (under any insurance policy, Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws provision or otherwise) of the amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder.
 
15.
                              
Defense of Claims
.  The Company shall be entitled to participate in the defense of any Claim relating to an Indemnifiable Event or to assume the defense thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitee; that if Indemnitee believes, after consultation with counsel selected by Indemnitee, that (i) the use of counsel chosen by the Company to represent Indemnitee would present such counsel with an actual or potential conflict of interest, (ii) the named parties in any such Claim (including any impleaded parties) include both the Company and Indemnitee and Indemnitee concludes that there may be one or more legal defenses available to him or her that are different from or in addition to those available to the Company, or (iii) any such representation by such counsel would be precluded under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, then Indemnitee shall be entitled to retain separate counsel (but not more than one law firm plus, if applicable, local counsel in respect of any particular Claim) at the Company's expense.  The Company shall not be liable to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any amounts paid in settlement of any Claim relating to an Indemnifiable Event effected without the Company's prior written consent.  The Company shall not, without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee, effect any settlement of any Claim relating to an Indemnifiable Event which the Indemnitee is or could have been a party unless such settlement solely involves the payment of money and includes a complete and unconditional release of Indemnitee from all liability on all claims that are the subject matter of such Claim.  Neither the Company nor Indemnitee shall unreasonably withhold its or his or her consent to any proposed settlement; that Indemnitee may withhold consent to any settlement that does not provide a complete and unconditional release of Indemnitee.
provided
provided
16.
                              
Binding Effect, Etc.
  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, (including any direct or indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company), assigns, spouses, heirs, executors and personal and legal representatives.  The Company shall require and cause any successor (whether direct or indirect by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Indemnitee and his or her counsel, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.  This Agreement shall continue in effect regardless of whether Indemnitee continues to serve as an officer and/or director of the Company or of any other entity or enterprise at the Company's request.
 
17.
                              
Security
.  To the extent requested by Indemnitee and approved by the Company's Board of Directors, the Company may at any time and from time to time provide security to Indemnitee for the obligations of the Company hereunder through an irrevocable bank line of credit, funded trust or other collateral or by other means.  Any such security, once provided to Indemnitee, may not be revoked or released without the prior written consent of such Indemnitee.
 
18.
                              
Severability
.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable in the event that any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single section, paragraph or sentence) are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable in any respect, and the validity and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired and shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
 
19.
                              
Specific Performance, Etc.
  The parties recognize that if any provision of this Agreement is violated by the Company, Indemnitee may be without an adequate remedy at law.  Accordingly, in the event of any such violation, Indemnitee shall be entitled, if Indemnitee so elects, to institute proceedings, either in law or at equity, to obtain damages, to enforce specific performance, to enjoin such violation, or to obtain any relief or any combination of the foregoing as Indemnitee may elect to pursue.
 
20.
                              
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Only one such counterpart signed by the party against whom enforceability is sought needs to be produced to evidence the existence of this Agreement.
 
21.
                              
Headings
.  The headings of the sections and paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction or interpretation thereof.
 
22.
                              
Governing Law
.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts
made and to be performed in such state without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of laws.
 
23.
                              
Entire Agreement
.  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements between the parties, whether written or oral, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 


