FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20080519061133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
On May 18, 2008, Yahoo! Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release in response to the announcement by Microsoft Corporation that it is continuing to review potential transactions with the Company.
A copy of the press release is filed with this Form 8-K and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) .
Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 18, 2008
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1
 Yahoo! Inc. (Nasdaq: YHOO), a leading global Internet company, today issued the following statement in response to the announcement by Microsoft Corporation that it is continuing to review potential transactions with Yahoo!:
SUNNYVALE, Calif., May 18, 2008
"Yahoo! has confirmed with Microsoft that it is not interested in pursuing an acquisition of all of Yahoo! at this time. Yahoo! and its Board of Directors continue to consider a number of value maximizing strategic alternatives for Yahoo!, and we remain open to pursuing any transaction which is in the best interest of our stockholders. Yahoo!'s Board of Directors will evaluate each of our alternatives, including any Microsoft proposal, consistent with its fiduciary duties, with a focus on maximizing stockholder value."
About Yahoo! Inc.
Yahoo! Inc. is a leading global Internet brand and one of the most trafficked Internet destinations worldwide. Yahoo! is focused on powering its communities of users, advertisers, publishers, and developers by creating indispensable experiences built on trust. Yahoo! is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. For more information, visit pressroom.yahoo.com.
Important Additional Information
Yahoo! will be filing a proxy statement and accompanying WHITE proxy card with the SEC in connection with the solicitation of proxies for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. Stockholders are strongly advised to read Yahoo!'s 2008 proxy statement when it becomes available because it will contain important information. Stockholders will be able to obtain copies of Yahoo!'s 2008 proxy statement and other documents filed by Yahoo! with the SEC in connection with its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders at the SEC's website at or at the Investor Relations section of Yahoo!'s website at yhoo.client.shareholder.com. Yahoo!, its directors and its executive officers may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from stockholders in connection with Yahoo!'s 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. Information concerning Yahoo!'s directors and officers is available in its Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, filed with the SEC on April 29, 2008.
www.sec.gov
Yahoo! and the Yahoo! logos are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Yahoo! Inc. All other names are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
Media Contacts: Brad Williams Yahoo! Inc. (408) 349-7069 bhw@yahoo-inc.com
 
Adam Miller / Winnie Lerner The Abernathy MacGregor Group for Yahoo! Inc. (212) 371-5999 alm@abmac.com / wal@abmac.com
Investor Contact: Marta Nichols Yahoo! Inc. (408) 349-3527 mnichols@yahoo-inc.com
2


