FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20080728090025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 on Form 8-K/A (this "Form 8-K/A") amends Item 5.02(b) of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Yahoo! Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 21, 2008 (the "Original Form 8-K"). This Form 8-K/A does not amend or modify the information set forth in Items 1.01 and 9.01 of the Original Form 8-K. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Original Form 8-K.
     (b) Item 5.02 of the Original Form 8-K stated that on July 20, 2008, Mr. Robert A. Kotick notified the Company that he would not stand for re-election to the Board at the Annual Meeting and tendered his resignation from the Board, effective as of the conclusion of the Annual Meeting. Subsequent to the filing of the Original Form 8-K and the issuance of the Company's July 21, 2008 press release, on July 25, 2008, following discussions with, and at the request of, the Company, Mr. Kotick confirmed that in order to ensure that the Settlement Agreement with Carl Icahn is properly implemented in accordance with its terms (which provide for Mr. Kotick to resign as a director as soon as practicable following the completion of the Annual Meeting), he will stand for re-election at the Annual Meeting and his resignation will become effective upon the completion of the Annual Meeting.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


