FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20081210171221.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
          On December 10, 2008, as part of a stipulation and agreement of settlement (the "Settlement Agreement") entered into with the plaintiffs in the pending before the Delaware Court of Chancery (the "Delaware Court"), Yahoo! Inc. (the "Company") amended its change in control severance plans originally approved on February 12, 2008 (the "Original Severance Plans" and the Original Severance Plans, as amended, the "Amended Severance Plans"). The Amended Severance Plans, together, cover all full time employees of the Company, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the executives currently employed by the Company who were named in the Summary Compensation Table of the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
In re Yahoo! Shareholders Litigation
          The Amended Severance Plans make the following changes, among others, to the terms of the Original Severance Plans:
Certain changes are not applicable to employees in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. where country-specific sub-plans were adopted in accordance with applicable law.
 
     The Amended Severance Plans became effective upon execution of the Settlement Agreement, but expire in 90 days if the Delaware Court does not finally approve the Settlement Agreement unless the Board of Directors directs otherwise. If the final approval is overturned on appeal and the Settlement Agreement is terminated, the amendments are void unless the Board of Directors directs otherwise.
     A description of the Original Severance Plans was provided on a Form 8-K filed by the Company on February 19, 2008. Additionally, the Company's Change in Control Employee Severance Plan for Level I and Level II Employees was filed as an exhibit to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the 2007 fiscal year filed by the Company on February 27, 2008.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


