FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20110419163100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
April 19, 2011
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Yahoo! Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
701 First Ave.
Sunnyvale, California 94089
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
(408) 349-3300
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
  
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
  
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On April 19, 2011, Yahoo! Inc., a Delaware corporation (Yahoo!), announced its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.  A copy of Yahoo!'s press release announcing these financial results and other information regarding its financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.   
The information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Yahoo! under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
YAHOO!  INC.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 99.1
Yahoo! Reports First Quarter 2011 Results
First Quarter Revenue and Profitability Exceed Expectations
SUNNYVALE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 19, 2011--Yahoo! Inc. (NASDAQ:YHOO) today reported results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.
Revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs ("revenue ex-TAC") was $1,064 million for the first quarter of 2011, a 6 percent decrease from the first quarter of 2010, primarily due to the revenue share related to the Search Agreement with Microsoft. Excluding this item and other special items, revenue ex-TAC for the first quarter of 2011 was flat year over year. Special items include the impact of the divestitures of Zimbra and HotJobs, broadband deferred revenue amortization, and certain fee rate reductions.
GAAP revenue was $1,214 million for the first quarter of 2011, a 24 percent decrease from the first quarter of 2010, primarily due to the required change in revenue presentation related to the Search Agreement and the associated revenue share with Microsoft. For transitioned markets (U.S. and Canada), Yahoo! now reports revenue associated with the Search Agreement on a net (after TAC) basis rather than a gross basis. Excluding the impact of these two items and the impact of the divestitures of Zimbra and HotJobs, broadband deferred revenue amortization, and certain fee rate reductions, revenue for the first quarter of 2011 decreased 8 percent compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Income from operations increased by 1 percent to $190 million in the first quarter of 2011, compared to $188 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Net earnings per diluted share were $0.17 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011, compared to $0.22 in the first quarter of 2010, a decrease of 23 percent. Net earnings per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011 included an impairment charge of $0.02 related to an investment held by Yahoo Japan. Net earnings per diluted share in the first quarter of 2010 included benefits of $0.05 related to the sale of Zimbra and $0.02 related to transition cost reimbursements from Microsoft attributable to 2009, reimbursed in 2010. Excluding these items, net earnings per diluted share for the first quarter of 2011 increased 23 percent compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Financials at a Glance
We are solidly executing toward our plan for returning Yahoo! to sustainable revenue and profit growth, said Carol Bartz, CEO of Yahoo!. During the quarter, we beat the midpoint of revenue guidance while continuing to deliver on the bottom line. We continued to extend our lead as the world's premier digital media company with users to Yahoo! branded properties increasing 15% year over year and minutes spend increasing 17%."
Business Highlights
Yahoo! launched Search Direct which delivers answers and direct access to websites before a user completes a query, hits the search button, or goes to a search results page. This search innovation supports Yahoo!s strategy to fundamentally shift the way people experience the Web  by providing the richest, most integrated content faster and more efficiently.
Yahoo! previewed Livestand, a digital newsstand that continually offers new content to consumers, based on their interests. Launching first for tablets, Livestand from Yahoo! will enable publishers and advertisers to seamlessly distribute content across tablets and mobile phones in an experience that is elegant and personalized to the individual.
Yahoo! continued to modernize its technology platforms, with 31 additional sites across the Americas, EMEA and APAC going live on the new global content platform in the quarter.
Yahoo! continued to drive engagement across its properties, with programming for events including the Super Bowl and the Oscars delivering blockbuster results. The Super Bowl drove more than 37 million clicks, doubling from the prior year; the Oscars drove more than one billion page views, a 23 percent increase over the prior year. Also in the quarter, Yahoo! launched its royal wedding Website, bringing together the best of the Web to celebrate the royal couple.
Yahoo!s original video programs increased its audience by 80 percent year over year with time spent doubling. Primetime in No Time surpassed 500 million total streams in the quarter making it the most watched online show ever. In just four quarters, the news trivia program Who Knew became the number one online show with more than 5 million visitors. In the quarter we also launched new programs including Breakout in Yahoo! Finance and omg Now in Entertainment.
Yahoo! introduced the MarketDash app, a newly designed tablet experience for Yahoo! Finance.
Yahoo! announced AdLabs, a group focused on providing scientific leadership to the industry and accelerating innovation in digital advertising products through Yahoo! Labs, one of the worlds premier industrial research organizations.
Yahoo! introduced Yahoo! Safely worldwide, a global resource to inform parents, educators, and young people in their own languages about important topics, such as managing digital reputations, avoiding cyber-bullying, and learning how to minimize risks on mobile devices.
Yahoo! announced a partnership with Omnicom Group, a leading global marketing and communications company, to educate brands about the power of digital storytelling in creating more engaging online experiences.
Yahoo! appointed David Kenny, president of Akamai Technologies, Inc., to the Board of Directors. Prior to Akamai, he was a managing partner of VivaKi and chief executive officer of Digitas, Inc., where he transformed the company from a direct marketing business to a cutting-edge interactive communications firm.
Search Alliance Costs and Reimbursements
Yahoo!s results for the first quarter of 2011 reflect $56 million in search operating cost reimbursements and $11 million in transition cost reimbursements from Microsoft under the Search Agreement, which amounts are equal to the search operating costs and the transition costs incurred by Yahoo! in the first quarter. Search operating cost reimbursements are expected to continue to decline as Yahoo! fully transitions all markets to Microsofts search platform and the underlying expenses are removed from our cost structure. Our business outlook for total expenses reflects these anticipated savings. The net impact of the transition costs and transition cost reimbursements were neutral to total operating expenses in the first quarter, as expected.
First Quarter 2011 Revenue Results
Display revenue ex-TAC increased 10 percent to $471 million, compared to $427 million for the first quarter of 2010.
GAAP display revenue increased 6 percent to $523 million, compared to $491 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Search revenue ex-TAC was $357 million, a 19 percent decrease compared to $440 million for the first quarter of 2010.
GAAP search revenue was $455 million, a 46 percent decrease compared to $841 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Cash Flow and Cash Balance
Cash flow from operating activities for the first quarter of 2011 was $208 million, a 45 percent increase compared to $144 million for the same period of 2010.
Free cash flow was $59 million for the first quarter of 2011, a 7 percent decrease compared to $64 million for the same period of 2010.
Cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable debt securities were $3,528 million at March 31, 2011 compared to $3,629 million at December 31, 2010, a decrease of $101 million. During the first quarter of 2011, Yahoo! repurchased 8 million shares for $137 million.
Business Outlook
Revenue ex-TAC for the second quarter of 2011 is expected to be in the range of $1,075 million to $1,125 million. Based on the terms of the Search Agreement with Microsoft, Microsoft retains a revenue share of 12 percent of the net (after TAC) search revenue generated on Yahoo! Properties and Affiliate sites in transitioned markets. Yahoo! reports the net revenue it receives under the Search Agreement as revenue and no longer presents the associated TAC within cost of revenue. Accordingly, for transitioned markets Yahoo! reports GAAP revenue associated with the Search Agreement on a net (after TAC) basis rather than a gross basis. For markets that have not yet transitioned, revenue continues to be recorded on a gross basis, and TAC is recorded in cost of revenue. Microsofts revenue share in the second quarter of 2011 is expected to be approximately $35 million. GAAP revenue for the second quarter of 2011 is expected to be in the range of $1,230 million to $1,290 million. Total expenses (cost of revenue plus total operating expenses) for the second quarter of 2011 is expected to be in the range of $1,070 million to $1,100 million. Total expenses less TAC for the second quarter of 2011 is expected to be in the range of $915 million to $935 million. Income from operations for the second quarter of 2011 is expected to be in the range of $160 million to $190 million.
Business outlook for revenue ex-TAC is being provided to reflect the underlying dynamics of the business during the Microsoft transition and to facilitate comparisons to prior periods.
Conference Call
Yahoo! will host a conference call to discuss first quarter 2011 results at 5 p.m. Eastern Time today. A live webcast of the conference call, together with supplemental financial information, can be accessed through the Company's Investor Relations website at . In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. An audio replay of the call will be available for one week following the conference call by calling (888) 286-8010 or (617) 801-6888, reservation number: 16006021.
http://investor.yahoo.com/results.cfm
Note Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and its attachments include the following financial measures defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): revenue ex-TAC; free cash flow; total expenses less TAC; non-GAAP net income; and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. These measures may be different than non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Explanations of the Companys non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations of these financial measures to the GAAP financial measures the Company considers most comparable are included in the accompanying Note to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, Supplemental Financial Data, GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income Reconciliation, and Business Outlook.
About Yahoo!
Yahoo! is the premier digital media company, creating deeply personal digital experiences that keep more than half a billion people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the globe. And Yahoo!s unique combination of Science + Art + Scale connects advertisers to the consumers who build their businesses. Yahoo! is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. For more information, visit the pressroom (pressroom.yahoo.net) or the company's blog, Yodel Anecdotal (yodel.yahoo.com).
Affiliates refers to the third-party entities that have integrated Yahoo!s advertising offerings into their Websites or other offerings (those Websites and other offerings, Affiliate sites).
Search Agreement refers to the Search and Advertising Services and Sales agreement between Yahoo! and Microsoft Corporation.
TAC refers to traffic acquisition costs.
TAC consists of payments to Affiliates and payments made to companies that direct consumer and business traffic to Yahoo! Properties.
Yahoo! Properties refers to the online properties and services that Yahoo! provides to users.
This press release and its attachments contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning Yahoo!'s expected financial performance (including, without limitation, the statements and information in the Business Outlook sections, certain business highlights, and the quotations from management in this press release), as well as Yahoo!'s strategic and operational plans. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the impact of management and organizational changes; the implementation and results of Yahoo!'s ongoing strategic and cost initiatives; Yahoo!'s ability to compete with new or existing competitors; reduction in spending by, or loss of, advertisers; the demand by customers for Yahoo!'s premium services; interruptions or delays in the provision of our services; security breaches; acceptance by users of new products and services; risks related to joint ventures and the integration of acquisitions; risks related to Yahoo!'s international operations; failure to manage growth and diversification; adverse results in litigation, including intellectual property infringement claims; Yahoo!'s ability to protect its intellectual property and the value of its brands; dependence on key personnel; dependence on third parties for technology, services, content, and distribution; general economic conditions and changes in economic conditions; and transition and implementation risks associated with the Search Agreement with Microsoft Corporation. All information set forth in this press release and its attachments is as of April 19, 2011. Yahoo! does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information to reflect subsequent events or circumstances; however, Yahoo! may update its business outlook or any portion thereof at any time in its discretion. More information about potential factors that could affect the Company's business and financial results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which is on file with the SEC and available on the SEC's website at . Additional information will also be set forth in those sections in Yahoo!s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, which will be filed with the SEC in the second quarter of 2011.
www.sec.gov
Yahoo! and the Yahoo! logos are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Yahoo! Inc. All other names are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
Yahoo! Inc.
Note to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
This press release and its attachments include the non-GAAP financial measures of revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs (revenue ex-TAC), free cash flow, total expenses (GAAP cost of revenue plus GAAP total operating expenses) less TAC, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, which are reconciled to revenue, cash flow from operating activities, total expenses (GAAP cost of revenue plus GAAP total operating expenses), net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc., and net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. common stockholders per share - diluted, which we believe are the most comparable GAAP measures. We use these non-GAAP financial measures for internal managerial purposes and to facilitate period-to-period comparisons. We describe limitations specific to each non-GAAP financial measure below. Management generally compensates for limitations in the use of non-GAAP financial measures by relying on comparable GAAP financial measures and providing investors with a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure or measures. Further, management uses non-GAAP financial measures only in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business and operating costs. These non-GAAP measures should be considered as a supplement to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, revenue, cash flow from operating activities, total expenses, net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc., and net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. common stockholders per share - diluted calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Revenue ex-TAC is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as GAAP revenue less TAC. TAC consists of payments made to third-party entities that have integrated our advertising offerings into their Websites or other offerings (those Websites and other offerings, Affiliate sites) and payments made to companies that direct consumer and business traffic to Yahoo!s online properties and services (Yahoo! Properties). Based on the terms of the Search Agreement with Microsoft, Microsoft retains a revenue share of 12 percent of the net (after TAC) search revenue generated on Yahoo! Properties and Affiliate sites in transitioned markets. Yahoo! reports the net revenue it receives under the Search Agreement as revenue and no longer presents the associated TAC within cost of revenue. Accordingly, for transitioned markets Yahoo! reports GAAP revenue associated with the Search Agreement on a net (after TAC) basis rather than a gross basis. For markets that have not yet transitioned, revenue continues to be recorded on a gross basis, and TAC is recorded in cost of revenue. We present revenue ex-TAC to provide investors a metric used by the Company for evaluation and decision-making purposes during the Microsoft transition and to provide investors with comparable revenue numbers when comparing periods preceding, during and following the transition period. We present revenue ex-TAC business outlook to reflect the underlying dynamics of the business during the Microsoft transition and to facilitate comparisons to prior periods. A limitation of revenue ex-TAC is that it is a measure which we have defined for internal and investor purposes that may be unique to the Company, and therefore it may not enhance the comparability of our results to other companies in our industry who have similar business arrangements but address the impact of TAC differently. Management compensates for these limitations by also relying on the comparable GAAP financial measures of revenue, cost of revenue, and gross profit, each of which includes the impact of TAC.
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as cash flow from operating activities (adjusted to include excess tax benefits from stock-based awards), less acquisition of property and equipment, net and dividends received from equity investees. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure which provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the acquisition of property and equipment, which can then be used for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the Company's business, making strategic acquisitions, strengthening the balance sheet, and repurchasing stock. A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period. Management compensates for this limitation by also relying on the net change in cash and cash equivalents as presented in the Companys unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP which incorporates all cash movements during the period.
Total expenses less TAC is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as total expenses (GAAP cost of revenue plus GAAP total operating expenses) less TAC. We consider total expenses less TAC to be a useful indicator of our operating costs. We exclude TAC from this measure because TAC generally varies based on the revenue we earn from traffic supplied by certain third parties, and doing so assists investors in understanding the operating cost structure of our business. A limitation associated with the non-GAAP measure of total expenses less TAC is that it does not reflect TAC. Management compensates for this limitation by also relying on the comparable GAAP financial measures of cost of revenue and income from operations, each of which includes TAC.
Non-GAAP net income is defined as net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. excluding certain gains, losses, expenses, and their related tax effects that we do not believe are indicative of our ongoing results. We consider non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share to be profitability measures which facilitate the forecasting of our results for future periods and allow for the comparison of our results to historical periods. A limitation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share is that they do not include all items that impact our net income and net income per diluted share for the period. Management compensates for this limitation by also relying on the comparable GAAP financial measures of net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. and net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. common stockholders per share - diluted, both of which include the gains, losses, expenses and related tax effects that are excluded from non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share.
CONTACTS: Yahoo! Inc. Dana Lengkeek, 408-349-1130 Cathy La Rocca, 408-349-5188
Media Relations:
danal@yahoo-inc.com
Investor Relations:
cathy@yahoo-inc.com


