FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20120717161520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
July 17, 2012
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Yahoo! Inc.
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (Registrants telephone number, including area code) (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
701 First Ave.
Sunnyvale, California 94089
(408) 349-3300
Not applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
  
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On July 17, 2012, Yahoo! Inc., a Delaware corporation (Yahoo!), announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.  A copy of Yahoo!'s press release announcing these financial results and other information regarding its financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.   
The information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Yahoo! under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
YAHOO!  INC.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 99.1
Yahoo! Reports Second Quarter 2012 Results
$190 Million Operating Income, Excluding Restructuring and Other Charges, Exceeds Midpoint of Business Outlook;
$0.27 EPS, Excluding Restructuring and Other Charges, Grows 47% Year-Over-Year
SUNNYVALE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 17, 2012--Yahoo! Inc. (NASDAQ:YHOO) today reported results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
Revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs (Revenue ex-TAC) was $1,081 million for the second quarter of 2012, flat compared to the second quarter of 2011. GAAP revenue was $1,218 million for the second quarter of 2012, a 1 percent decrease from the second quarter of 2011.
Non-GAAP income from operations of $190 million in the second quarter of 2012 was flat compared to $191 million in the second quarter of 2011. Non-GAAP income from operations excludes restructuring charges and deal-related expenses of less than $1 million in the second quarter of 2011 and $136 million in the second quarter of 2012. On a GAAP basis, income from operations decreased 71 percent to $55 million in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $191 million in the second quarter of 2011.
In the second quarter of 2012, non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share increased 47 percent year over year to $0.27. Non-GAAP net earnings per diluted share excludes restructuring charges and deal-related expenses of less than $1 million in the second quarter of 2011 and $136 million, as well as the related tax impact of $36 million, in the second quarter of 2012. On a GAAP basis, net earnings per diluted share was $0.18 in the second quarter of 2012.
In the second quarter, non-GAAP earnings per share exceeded consensus and both display and search revenue ex-TAC showed modest growth, said Tim Morse, chief financial officer. We also moved aggressively with new strategic agreements with Alibaba and Facebook and announced several new partnerships including CNBC, Clear Channel and Spotify.
Business Highlights
Yahoo! named Marissa Mayer chief executive officer.
Fred Amoroso was named chairman of Yahoo!s board of directors and Daniel S. Loeb, Harry J. Wilson, and Michael J. Wolf joined the Yahoo! board.
Yahoo! and Alibaba Group Holding Limited (Alibaba) announced a definitive agreement for a staged and comprehensive value realization plan for Yahoo!'s stake in Alibaba. The first step is the repurchase by Alibaba of up to one-half of Yahoo!'s stake, or approximately 20 percent of Alibaba's fully-diluted shares.
In July 2012, Yahoo! and Facebook announced definitive agreements that launch a new advertising partnership, extend and expand distribution arrangements, and settle all pending patent claims between the companies.
Yahoo! launched Axis, a new experience that re-imagines how consumers search and browse on the web. Axis offers the only search experience that allows consumers to enter their search, see and interact with visual results, all without ever leaving the page they are on. Axis seamlessly integrates with consumers favorite desktop browser and automatically connects the online experiences across multiple devices.
Yahoo! launched Genome from Yahoo!, an online advertising solution that combines Yahoo! data with interclick's third party data and advertisers' first party data along with a premium media footprint to provide marketers with one of the most complete, custom audience solutions in the industry.
Yahoo! and CNBC announced a strategic content, programming and distribution alliance that will dramatically expand CNBCs online reach and presence and provide a broadcast platform for Yahoo! Finances original content and contributors. CNBC becomes the premier content source for Yahoo! Finance in the U.S. and later this year, the two companies plan to co-create a new slate of co-branded, original videos which will appear on Yahoo! Finance and CNBC.com.
Yahoo! and Clear Channel announced a cross-platform content distribution and promotion agreement. The multi-faceted relationship involves the distribution and cross-promotion of premium content in addition to a live concert series to the unparalleled combined audience of the Yahoo! Media Network and Clear Channel Media and Entertainment U.S. listeners across 150 markets, plus their websites and the audience of iHeartRadio, Clear Channel's industry-leading digital radio service.
Yahoo! and Spotify announced a global content distribution and promotion agreement that will enable Yahoo! to integrate and promote Spotify's on demand music service on Yahoo!'s Media Network. Yahoo! will also create an app for Spotify's platform featuring Yahoo! original entertainment content.
Yahoo! extended its exclusive online agreement with Eurosport to host and operate the co-branded Yahoo! Eurosport site in key markets. By partnering with the #1 pan-European television sports network, Yahoo! will continue to bring exclusive, high quality sports content online to drive user engagement and provide premium content.
Second Quarter 2012 Revenue Highlights
Display revenue ex-TAC was $473 million, a 1 percent increase compared to $467 million for the second quarter of 2011.
GAAP display revenue was $535 million, a 2 percent increase compared to $524 million for the second quarter of 2011.
Search revenue ex-TAC was $385 million, a 4 percent increase compared to $371 million for the second quarter of 2011.
GAAP search revenue was $461 million, a 1 percent decrease compared to $467 million for the second quarter of 2011.
Cash Flow and Cash Balance
Cash flow from operating activities for the second quarter of 2012 was $275 million, a 17 percent decrease compared to $331 million for the same period of 2011. Cash flow from operating activities was $572 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012, a 7 percent increase compared to $536 million for the same period of 2011.
Free cash flow was $93 million for the second quarter of 2012, a 2 percent decrease compared to $96 million for the same period of 2011. Free cash flow was $289 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012, a 90 percent increase compared to $152 million for the same period of 2011.
Cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable debt securities were $2,401 million at June 30, 2012 compared to $2,530 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $129 million.
During the second quarter of 2012, Yahoo! repurchased 30 million shares for $456 million.
Conference Call
Yahoo! will host a conference call to discuss second quarter 2012 results at 5 p.m. Eastern Time today. A live Webcast of the conference call, together with supplemental financial information, can be accessed through the Company's Investor Relations Website at . In addition, an archive of the Webcast can be accessed through the same link. An audio replay of the call will be available for one week following the conference call by calling (888) 286-8010 or (617) 801-6888, reservation number: 98876440.
http://investor.yahoo.com/results.cfm
Note Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and its attachments include the following financial measures defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): revenue ex-TAC; free cash flow; non-GAAP income from operations; non-GAAP net income; and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. These measures may be different than non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Explanations of the Companys non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations of these financial measures to the GAAP financial measures the Company considers most comparable are included in the accompanying Note to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, Supplemental Financial Data, and GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations.
About Yahoo!
Yahoo! is a technology-powered media company, creating deeply personal digital experiences that keep more than half a billion people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the globe. Yahoo!s unique combination of Science + Art + Scale connects advertisers to the consumers who build their businesses. Yahoo! is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. For more information, visit the pressroom () or the company's blog, Yodel Anecdotal (yodel.yahoo.com).
pressroom.yahoo.net
Affiliates refers to the third-party entities that have integrated Yahoo!s advertising offerings into their Websites or other offerings (those Websites and other offerings, Affiliate sites).
Search Agreement refers to the Search and Advertising Services and Sales Agreement between Yahoo! and Microsoft Corporation, as amended.
TAC refers to traffic acquisition costs.
TAC consists of payments to Affiliates and payments made to companies that direct consumer and business traffic to Yahoo! Properties.
Yahoo! Properties refers to the online properties and services that Yahoo! provides to users.
This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning Yahoo!'s expected financial performance, as well as Yahoo!'s strategic and operational plans. Risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results predicted, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the impact of management and organizational changes; the implementation and results of Yahoo!'s ongoing strategic and cost initiatives; Yahoo!'s ability to compete with new or existing competitors; reduction in spending by, or loss of, advertising customers; risks related to Yahoo!s regulatory environment; interruptions or delays in the provision of Yahoo!s services; security breaches; acceptance by users of new products and services; risks related to joint ventures and the integration of acquisitions; risks related to Yahoo!'s international operations; failure to manage growth and diversification; adverse results in litigation, including intellectual property infringement claims and derivative and class actions; Yahoo!'s ability to protect its intellectual property and the value of its brands; dependence on key personnel; dependence on third parties for technology, services, content, and distribution; general economic conditions and changes in economic conditions; transition and implementation risks associated with the Search Agreement with Microsoft Corporation; and risks that the benefits of the agreement Yahoo! entered into with Alibaba regarding Yahoo!s stake in Alibaba or the Framework Agreement Yahoo! entered into with Alibaba, Softbank Corporation and certain other parties regarding Alipay may not be realized. All information set forth in this press release and its attachments is as of July 17, 2012. Yahoo! does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. More information about potential factors that could affect the Company's business and financial results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as amended, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, which are on file with the SEC and available on the SEC's website at . Additional information will also be set forth in those sections in Yahoo!s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, which will be filed with the SEC in the third quarter of 2012.
www.sec.gov
Yahoo!, the Yahoo! logos, Axis and Genome are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Yahoo! Inc. All other names are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
Yahoo! Inc.
Note to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
This press release and its attachments include the non-GAAP financial measures of revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs (revenue ex-TAC), free cash flow, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, which are reconciled to revenue, cash flow from operating activities, income from operations, net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc., and net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. common stockholders per share - diluted, which we believe are the most comparable GAAP measures. We use these non-GAAP financial measures for internal managerial purposes and to facilitate period-to-period comparisons. We describe limitations specific to each non-GAAP financial measure below. Management generally compensates for limitations in the use of non-GAAP financial measures by relying on comparable GAAP financial measures and providing investors with a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure or measures. Further, management uses non-GAAP financial measures only in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business and operating costs. These non-GAAP measures should be considered as a supplement to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, revenue, cash flow from operating activities, income from operations, net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc., and net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. common stockholders per share - diluted calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Revenue ex-TAC is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as GAAP revenue less TAC. TAC consists of payments made to third-party entities that have integrated our advertising offerings into their Websites or other offerings (those Websites and other offerings, Affiliate sites) and payments made to companies that direct consumer and business traffic to Yahoo!s online properties and services (Yahoo! Properties). Based on the terms of the Search Agreement with Microsoft, Microsoft retains a revenue share of 12 percent of the net (after TAC) search revenue generated on Yahoo! Properties and Affiliate sites in transitioned markets. Yahoo! reports the net revenue it receives under the Search Agreement as revenue and no longer presents the associated TAC. Accordingly, for transitioned markets Yahoo! reports GAAP revenue associated with the Search Agreement on a net (after TAC) basis rather than a gross basis. For markets that have not yet transitioned, revenue continues to be recorded on a gross basis, and TAC is recorded as a part of operating expenses. We present revenue ex-TAC to provide investors a metric used by the Company for evaluation and decision-making purposes during the Microsoft transition and to provide investors with comparable revenue numbers when comparing periods preceding, during and following the transition period. A limitation of revenue ex-TAC is that it is a measure which we have defined for internal and investor purposes that may be unique to the Company, and therefore it may not enhance the comparability of our results to other companies in our industry who have similar business arrangements but address the impact of TAC differently. Management compensates for these limitations by also relying on the comparable GAAP financial measures of revenue and total operating expenses, which includes TAC in non-transitioned markets.
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as cash flow from operating activities (adjusted to include excess tax benefits from stock-based awards), less acquisition of property and equipment, net and dividends received from equity investees. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure which provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the acquisition of property and equipment, which can then be used for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the Company's business, making strategic acquisitions, strengthening the balance sheet, and repurchasing stock. A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period. Management compensates for this limitation by also relying on the net change in cash and cash equivalents as presented in the Companys unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP which incorporates all cash movements during the period.
Non-GAAP income from operations is defined as income from operations excluding certain gains, losses, and expenses that we do not believe are indicative of our ongoing operating results. We consider non-GAAP income from operations to be a profitability measure which facilitates the forecasting of our operating results for future periods and allows for the comparison of our results to historical periods. A limitation of non-GAAP income from operations is that it does not include all items that impact our income from operations for the period. Management compensates for this limitation by also relying on the comparable GAAP financial measure of income from operations which includes the gains, losses, and expenses that are excluded from non-GAAP income from operations.
Non-GAAP net income is defined as net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. excluding certain gains, losses, expenses, and their related tax effects that we do not believe are indicative of our ongoing results. We consider non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share to be profitability measures which facilitate the forecasting of our results for future periods and allow for the comparison of our results to historical periods. A limitation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share is that they do not include all items that impact our net income and net income per diluted share for the period. Management compensates for this limitation by also relying on the comparable GAAP financial measures of net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. and net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. common stockholders per share - diluted, both of which include the gains, losses, expenses and related tax effects that are excluded from non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share.
CONTACTS: Yahoo! Dana Lengkeek, 408-349-1130 Joon Huh, 408-349-3382
Media Relations:
danal@yahoo-inc.com
Investor Relations:
investorrelations@yahoo-inc.com


