FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20120514163826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 13, 2012, Yahoo! Inc. ("Yahoo!") entered into a settlement agreement (the "Settlement Agreement") with Third Point LLC ("Third Point"), Daniel S. Loeb, Michael J. Wolf, Harry J. Wilson and Jeffrey A. Zucker and certain other affiliates of Third Point (collectively, the "Third Point Group") to settle the proxy contest pertaining to the election of directors to Yahoo!'s Board of Directors (the "Board") at Yahoo!'s 2012 annual meeting of stockholders (the "2012 Annual Meeting"). The Settlement Agreement provides, among other things:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing summary of the Settlement Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Settlement Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.01 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Effective May 12, 2012, Scott Thompson resigned as Yahoo!'s Chief Executive Officer and President, as a member of the Board, and from all other positions with Yahoo!. Yahoo! entered into a separation agreement, dated May 12, 2012 (the "Separation Agreement"), with Mr. Thompson to memorialize the parties' mutual desire to separate employment. The Separation Agreement provides, among other things:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing summary of the Separation Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Separation Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.02 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Board appointed Ross Levinsohn, Yahoo!'s Executive Vice President and Head of Global Media, as interim Chief Executive Officer and President, effective May 13, 2012. Mr. Levinsohn has served as Yahoo!'s Executive Vice President and Head of Global Media since May 1, 2012 and will continue in this role. Mr. Levinsohn became our Executive Vice President, Americas in November 2010. He was the co-founder and managing director of Fuse Capital (formerly Velocity Interactive Group), an investment firm focused on digital media and communications, from August 2007 to October 2010. From 2000 to 2006, he served in leadership roles at News Corporation, a media and entertainment company, including as President of Fox Interactive Media, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Fox Sports Interactive Media, and Senior Vice President of News Digital Media. Currently, he also serves as a director of Freedom Communications, a media company operating newspapers and television stations. Mr. Levinsohn is 48 years old.
There are no family relationships between Mr. Levinsohn and any director or executive officer of Yahoo!, and he has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
No new compensatory arrangements were entered into with Mr. Levinsohn in connection with his appointment as interim Chief Executive Officer and President.
 
Effective May 13, 2012, Roy Bostock, Patti Hart, Vyomesh Joshi, Arthur Kern and Gary Wilson resigned from the Board and all other positions with Yahoo!.
In connection with the Settlement Agreement, effective May 13, 2012, the Board reduced its size from fourteen (14) to eleven (11) directors in light of the agreement to appoint Messrs. Loeb, Harry J. Wilson and Wolf to serve as directors of Yahoo!.
 
On May 13, 2012, Yahoo! and Third Point LLC issued a joint press release relating to the Settlement Agreement and board and management changes. This press release is attached as Exhibit 99.03 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Board elected Alfred Amoroso to serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board. Mr. Amoroso has served as a member of our Board since February 2012.
 
Important Additional Information
Yahoo! has filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and will be filing a definitive proxy statement with the SEC in connection with the solicitation of proxies for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. Shareholders are strongly advised to read Yahoo!'s 2012 definitive proxy statement (including any amendments or supplements thereto) when it becomes available because it will contain important information. Shareholders will be able to obtain copies of Yahoo!'s 2012 proxy statement, any amendments or supplements to the proxy statement, and other documents filed by Yahoo! with the SEC in connection with its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders for no charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Copies of the proxy materials may also be requested from Yahoo!'s proxy solicitor, Innisfree M&A Incorporated, by telephone at (877) 750-9499 (toll-free) or by email at info@innisfreema.com.
Yahoo!, its directors, executive officers and certain employees are deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders in connection with Yahoo!'s 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. Information regarding Yahoo!'s directors, executive officers and other persons who, under rules of the SEC, are considered participants in the solicitation of proxies for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, including their respective interests by security holdings or otherwise, is set forth in the preliminary proxy statement Yahoo! filed with the SEC on April 27, 2012 and will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement for Yahoo!'s 2012 annual meeting of shareholders when it is filed with the SEC.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 14, 2012

Exhibit 99.01
This Agreement, dated May 13, 2012 (this ""), is by and among the persons and entities listed on Schedule A (collectively, the "", and individually a "" of the Third Point Group) and Yahoo! Inc. (the "").
Agreement
Third Point Group
member
Company
WHEREAS, the Third Point Group and other participants have (i) given notice to the Company in accordance with the Company's bylaws (the "") that they intend to nominate certain individuals for election as directors of the Company at the Company's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders (the ""), and (ii) filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") relating to the solicitation of proxies for the 2012 Annual Meeting; and
Bylaws
2012 Annual Meeting
SEC
WHEREAS, each of the Company and the Third Point Group has determined that it is in its best interests to enter into this Agreement and to terminate the pending proxy contest for the election of directors at the 2012 Annual Meeting; and
WHEREAS, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President, Scott Thompson, has resigned as the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President, as a member of the Company's Board of Directors (the "") and from all other positions he holds with the Company and its Affiliates, and the Board has accepted such resignations effective upon the execution of this Agreement.
Board
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of and reliance upon the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unless such Third Point Nominee, in his sole discretion, declines to serve on such committee(s); , in all such cases that such Third Point Nominee shall be entitled to be a member of such committee(s) of the Board only if he meets any independence or other requirements under applicable law and the rules and regulations of the Nasdaq Global Select Market (or other securities exchange on which the Company's securities may then be traded) for service on such committee.
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The term "" as used herein shall mean the common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company (the "") and any other securities of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors, or securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, Common Stock or other securities, whether or not subject to the passage of time or other contingencies. The term "" as used herein shall have the meaning given to such term in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
Voting Securities
Common Stock
beneficial owner
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature Page Follows]
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed this Agreement, or caused the same to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of the date first above written.
 
Third Point LLC
Third Point Partners Qualified L.P.
Third Point Partners L.P.
Third Point Offshore Master Fund L.P.
Third Point Ultra Master Fund L.P.
Third Point Reinsurance Company, Ltd.
Daniel S. Loeb
Michael J. Wolf
Harry J. Wilson
Jeffrey A. Zucker
[Date]
Attention: Chairman of the Board of Directors
Reference is made to the Agreement, dated as of May [], 2012 (the ""), by and among Yahoo! Inc. (the "") and the Third Point Group (as defined therein). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement.
Agreement
Company
In accordance with Section 1)c. of the Agreement I hereby tender my conditional resignation as a director of the Board, provided that this resignation shall be effective upon the Board's acceptance of this resignation, and only in the event that at any time the Third Point Group, together with the Third Point Affiliates, fails to collectively beneficially own at least 2% shares of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. I hereby acknowledge that this conditional resignation as a director of the Board is as a result of the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
This resignation may not be withdrawn by me at any time during which it is effective.
Very truly yours,
 
 Yahoo! Inc. (NASDAQ: YHOO) today announced that the Board of Directors has named Fred Amoroso as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Ross Levinsohn as interim Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. The Company also announced that its Board has reached an agreement with Third Point LLC ("Third Point") to settle its pending proxy contest related to the Company's 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.
Sunnyvale, Calif.  May 13, 2011
Mr. Amoroso replaces Roy Bostock, who has stepped down from his role as Non-Executive Chairman in order to accelerate the leadership transition for the new Board. Mr. Levinsohn replaces Scott Thompson, former Chief Executive Officer, who has left the Company.
Under the Board's settlement agreement with Third Point, three Third Point nominees  Daniel S. Loeb, Harry J. Wilson, and Michael J. Wolf  will join the Yahoo! Board, effective May 16, 2012. Mr. Bostock, along with Patti Hart, VJ Joshi, Arthur Kern and Gary Wilson, all of whom previously disclosed their intentions not to stand for re-election, as well as Mr. Thompson, have decided to step down from the Board immediately.
As a part of the settlement agreement, Third Point, which owns an aggregate of 70,545,400 shares, or 5.8% of Yahoo! common stock, has agreed to withdraw its previous Board nominations for consideration at the annual meeting and vote its shares in support of Yahoo!'s nominees. Yahoo!'s slate of director nominees for election or re-election at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders will now include Fred Amoroso, John Hayes, Peter Liguori, Thomas McInerney, Maynard Webb, Sue James, David Kenny, Brad Smith, Daniel S. Loeb, Harry J. Wilson and Michael J. Wolf.
As interim CEO, Mr. Levinsohn will manage the Company's day-to-day operations with assistance from Yahoo!'s existing senior leadership team.
"The Board is pleased to announce these changes and the settlement with Third Point, and is confident that they will serve the best interests of our shareholders and further accelerate the substantial advances the Company has made operationally and organizationally since last August. The Board believes in the strength of the Company's business and assets, and in the opportunities before us, and I am honored to work closely with my fellow directors and Ross to continue to drive Yahoo! forward," said Fred Amoroso, Chairman of the Yahoo! Board of Directors.
Mr. Amoroso continued, "On behalf of the entire Board, I would also like to thank Patti, VJ, Arthur, Gary and, in particular, Roy, for their dedicated long-term service and contributions to the Board and Yahoo!."
Third Point Chief Executive Officer Daniel S. Loeb stated: "Harry, Michael and I are delighted to join the Yahoo! Board and work collaboratively with our fellow directors to foster a culture of leadership dedicated to innovation, excellence in corporate governance, and responsiveness to users, advertisers and partners. We are confident this Board will benefit from shareholder representation, and we are committed to working with new leadership to unlock Yahoo!'s significant potential and value."
Third Point Director Nominee Jeff Zucker stated: "I have been supportive of Third Point's efforts since Daniel asked me to join the slate. When I became aware of Yahoo!'s offer of three board seats to Third Point, I approached Daniel and let him know that I would be happy to step aside to quickly facilitate a settlement. I believe that it is in Yahoo!'s best interests to avoid a prolonged proxy fight and have new board members immediately to help move the company forward. While there is clearly much work to be done, this is the right combination of talented executives to do just that."
About Yahoo!
Yahoo! is the premier digital media company, creating deeply personal digital experiences that keep more than half a billion people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the globe. And Yahoo!'s unique combination of Science + Art + Scale connects advertisers to the consumers who build their businesses. Yahoo! is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. For more information, visit the pressroom () or the company's blog, Yodel Anecdotal ().
pressroom.yahoo.net
yodel.yahoo.com
About Third Point LLC
About Third Point LLC: Third Point is an investment firm headquartered in New York, managing $9.0 billion in assets, including a London Stock Exchange listed closed-end fund. Founded in 1995, Third Point follows an event-driven approach to investing globally.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning such matters as Yahoo!'s new directors and strategic activities and plans. Risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results predicted. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the impact of management and organizational changes; the implementation and results of any strategic plans as well as Yahoo!'s ongoing strategic and cost initiatives; Yahoo!'s ability to compete with new or existing competitors; reduction in spending by, or loss of, advertising customers; risks related to Yahoo!'s regulatory environment; interruptions or delays in the provision of Yahoo!'s services; security breaches; acceptance by users of new products and services; risks related to joint ventures and the integration of acquisitions; risks related to Yahoo!'s international operations; failure to manage growth and diversification; adverse results in
litigation, including intellectual property infringement claims and recent derivative and class actions; Yahoo!'s ability to protect its intellectual property and the value of its brands; dependence on key personnel; dependence on third parties for technology, services, content, and distribution; general economic conditions and changes in economic conditions; transition and implementation risks associated with the Search Agreement with Microsoft Corporation; and risks that the benefits of the Framework Agreement Yahoo! entered into with Alibaba Group, Softbank Corporation and certain other parties regarding Alipay may not be realized. All information set forth in this press release is as of May 13, 2012. Yahoo! does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. More information about potential factors that could affect Yahoo!'s business and financial results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Yahoo!'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, as amended, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
Important Additional Information
Yahoo! has filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and will be filing a definitive proxy statement with the SEC in connection with the solicitation of proxies for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. Shareholders are strongly advised to read Yahoo!'s 2012 definitive proxy statement (including any amendments or supplements thereto) when it becomes available because it will contain important information. Shareholders will be able to obtain copies of Yahoo!'s 2012 proxy statement, any amendments or supplements to the proxy statement, and other documents filed by Yahoo! with the SEC in connection with its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders for no charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Copies of the proxy materials may also be requested from Yahoo!'s proxy solicitor, Innisfree M&A Incorporated, by telephone at (877) 750-9499 (toll-free) or by email at . Yahoo!, its directors, executive officers and certain employees are deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders in connection with Yahoo!'s 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. Information regarding Yahoo!'s directors, executive officers and other persons who, under rules of the SEC, are considered participants in the solicitation of proxies for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, including their respective interests by security holdings or otherwise, is set forth in the preliminary proxy statement Yahoo! filed with the SEC on April 27, 2012 and will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement for Yahoo!'s 2012 annual meeting of shareholders when it is filed with the SEC.
info@innisfreema.com
 

Exhibit 99.02
Final
This Separation Agreement (this "") memorializes the parties' mutual desire to separate, leading to the termination of employment with Yahoo! Inc. ("" or the "").
Agreement
Yahoo!
Company
1. Your last day of work with the Company and your employment termination date was May 12, 2012 (the ""). To the extent you have not previously done so as of the Separation Date, you hereby resign from your position as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and from any and all offices you have with the Company's subsidiaries and/or affiliates, including the Company's Board of Directors or any fiduciary or other committee with respect to any benefit plan of the Company or any of the Company's subsidiaries and/or affiliates. You shall execute such additional documents as requested by the Company to evidence the foregoing. After the Separation Date, you shall not represent yourself as being an officer, director or employee of the Company or a fiduciary of any such benefit plan for any purpose.
Separation.
Separation Date
2. Yahoo! will pay you all Accrued Amounts (as defined below), subject to payroll deductions and required withholdings. You are entitled to these payments regardless of whether or not you sign this Agreement. means any accrued but unpaid base salary through date of termination paid in accordance with normal payroll practices, unreimbursed business expenses incurred prior to the date of termination paid in accordance with Company policies, and accrued but unused vacation time through the date of termination due in accordance with Company plans and policies. With respect to reimbursement for business expenses incurred prior to termination of your employment, you agree that, within thirty (30) days following the Separation Date, you will submit your final expense reimbursement statement and required documentation reflecting all business expenses you incurred through the Separation Date, if any, for which you seek reimbursement. For a copy of the Yahoo! expense form, please email payroll-operations@yahoo-inc.com. You should submit completed expense reports and receipts to the Expense Report Department at Yahoo!, 701 First Avenue, Sunnyvale, California 94089.
Accrued Amounts.
Accrued Amounts
3. . Except as provided in Section 9 below, you and Yahoo! mutually agree to terminate any and all other contracts or agreements, including but not limited to the Offer Letter, and rights under all pension, welfare, equity and fringe plans, programs, awards, arrangements, and payroll practices; provided, however, that nothing in the Agreement requires you to repay or return to Yahoo! the Make-Whole Cash Bonus previously paid to you and the Make-Whole Restricted Stock Units that already have vested. Therefore, except as provided in this Agreement, this Separation Agreement supersedes and supplants any and all rights, claims, benefits and defenses you or the Company would otherwise enjoy or be entitled to assert pursuant to your Offer Letter or any other document previously executed relating to your employment with the Company.
Consideration for this Agreement
4.
Tax Matters.
a. Yahoo! will withhold required federal, state and local taxes from any and all payments of the Accrued Amounts and make all tax reporting it determines it should make based on this Agreement.
Withholding.
b. Other than Yahoo!'s obligation and right to withhold federal, state and local taxes and to pay the employer portion of FICA and FUTA, you will be responsible for any and all taxes, interest, and penalties that may be imposed with respect to the payments previously made or contemplated by this Agreement (including, but not limited to, those imposed under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A).
Responsibility for Taxes.
5. Nothing in this Agreement affects your right to timely elect and purchase at your own expense health-care coverage under COBRA as provided by law.
Health Care Coverage.
6. You agree to perform promptly, all acts deemed necessary or desirable by Yahoo! to permit and assist it, at its expense, in obtaining and enforcing the full benefits, enjoyment, rights and title throughout the world in all intellectual property assigned to Yahoo! pursuant to your Employee Confidentiality and Assignment of Inventions Agreement(s) or similar agreement(s) including, but not limited to, disclosing information, executing documents and providing reasonable assistance or cooperation in legal proceedings.
Invention and Assignment to Yahoo!.
7. Promptly after the Separation Date, you agree to return to Yahoo! all hard copy and electronic documents (and all copies thereof) and other property belonging to Yahoo!, its subsidiaries and/or affiliates that you have had in your possession at any time, including, but not limited to, files, notes, notebooks, correspondence, memoranda, agreements, drawings, records, business plans, forecasts, financial information, specifications, computer-recorded information, tangible property (including, but not limited to, computers, PDAs, pagers, telephones, credit cards, entry cards, identification badges and keys), and any materials of any kind that contain or embody any proprietary or confidential information of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates (and all reproductions thereof in whole or in part). If you discover after the Separation Date that you have retained any proprietary or confidential information (including, but not limited to, proprietary or confidential information contained in any electronic documents or e-mail systems in your possession or control), you agree immediately upon discovery to send an email to IPQuestionsSeparations@yahoo-inc.com and inform Yahoo! of the nature and location of the proprietary or confidential information that you have retained so that Yahoo! may arrange to remove, recover, and/or collect such information.
Return of Company Property.
8.
Ongoing Obligations.
a.
Intellectual Property and Proprietary Information.
You acknowledge your continuing obligations under your Employee Confidentiality and Assignment of Inventions Agreement(s), the Offer Letter or any other agreement(s) signed thereafter containing restrictive covenants (collectively ""), including your obligation not to use or disclose any confidential or proprietary information of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliated entities, not to solicit Yahoo! employees and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, not to solicit customers and not to compete with the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliated entities while you are employed, as specified in your NDAs. If you would like a copy of your signed NDAs, please contact David Windley at (408) 349-8449.
NDAs
b.
Nondisparagement.
You agree, for five years after your employment with the Company terminates, not to knowingly disparage the Company or its officers, directors, employees or agents in any manner likely to be harmful to it or them or its or their business, business reputation or personal reputation. The foregoing shall not be violated by statements that are truthful, complete and made in good faith in required responses to legal process or governmental inquiry. You agree that any breach of this nondisparagement provision shall be a material breach of this Agreement. The Company will instruct its Chairman, the chief Yahoos, and the named executive officers of the Company, other than in the good-faith performance of their duties to the Company or in connection with their fiduciary duties to the Company and applicable law, for a period of five years following your employment has terminated, not to knowingly disparage you in any manner likely to be harmful to you or your business reputation or personal reputation. The foregoing shall not be violated by statements which are truthful, complete, and made in good faith in required response to legal process or governmental inquiry.
 
9. . In consideration for, and as a condition of the payments and benefits provided to you pursuant to this Agreement, you hereby generally and completely release the Company and its directors, officers, employees, shareholders, partners, agents, attorneys, predecessors, successors, parent and subsidiary entities, insurers, affiliates, and assigns (collectively "") from any and all claims, liabilities and obligations, both known and unknown, that arise out of or are in any way related to events, acts, conduct, or omissions occurring at any time prior to and including the date you sign this Agreement and which arise out of or are in any way related to your employment or other relationship, or termination of such employment or other relationship, with the Company or any of the Company's subsidiaries and/or affiliates, including but not limited to: (1) all claims related to your compensation or benefits from the Company, including wages, salary, bonuses, commissions, vacation pay, expense reimbursements (to the extent permitted by applicable law), severance pay, fringe benefits, stock, stock options, or any other ownership interests in the Company; (2) all claims for breach of contract, wrongful termination, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) all tort claims, including without limitation claims for fraud, defamation, emotional distress, and discharge in violation of public policy; and (4) all federal, state, and local statutory claims, including without limitation claims for discrimination, harassment, retaliation, attorneys' fees, or other claims arising under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 (as amended), the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (as amended) (""), the federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (as amended) and similar laws in other jurisdictions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (as amended), the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, and the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (as amended) and similar laws in other jurisdictions; provided, however, that nothing herein shall (i) release the Company from any claims arising from or by reason of any breach by the Company of this Agreement; or (ii) interfere with your rights, if any, to indemnification or director's and officer's liability insurance coverage provided to you by any agreement with the Company or any provision or any By-Law of the Company or application of law. To the maximum extent permitted by law, you also promise never directly or indirectly to bring or participate in an action against any Released Party under California Business & Professions Code Section 17200 or under any other unfair competition law of any jurisdiction. If, notwithstanding the above, you are awarded any money or other relief under such a claim, you hereby assign the money or other relief to the Company. Your waiver and release specified in this paragraph do not apply to any rights or claims that may arise after the date you sign this Agreement.
Release of Claims
Released Party
ADEA
This Agreement includes a release of claims of discrimination or retaliation on the basis of workers' compensation status, but does not include workers' compensation claims. Excluded from this Agreement are any claims which by law cannot be waived in a private agreement between employer and employee. You have the right to file a charge with or participate in an investigation conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ("") or any state or local fair employment practices agency, however, you waive any right to any monetary recovery or other relief should the EEOC or any other agency pursue a claim on your behalf.
EEOC
The Company releases you from all claims to the same extent that you release it, and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to apply to any liability arising out of any intentional and wrongful act by you.
10.
Representations.
a. You acknowledge and agree that you have not been denied any rights including, but not limited to, rights to a leave or reinstatement from a leave under the Family and
 
Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, or any similar law of any jurisdiction. You represent that your age was not the basis for any Company decision or action affecting you, and acknowledge that the Company relied on that representation in entering into this Agreement.
b. You acknowledge and agree that the benefits provided under this Agreement are in full discharge of any and all liabilities and obligations of the Company and/or any of the Company's subsidiaries and/or affiliates to you, monetarily or otherwise, including but not limited to any and all obligations arising under the Offer Letter and any other alleged written or oral employment or consulting agreement, policy, plan or procedure of the Company and/or any alleged understanding or arrangement between you and the Company and/or any of the Company's subsidiaries and/or affiliates.
c. You acknowledge and agree that by virtue of the foregoing Release, you have waived any relief available to you (including without limitation, monetary damages, equitable relief and reinstatement) under any of the claims and/or causes of action waived in this Agreement. Therefore, you agree that you will not accept any award or settlement from any source or proceeding (including but not limited to any proceeding brought by any other person or by any government agency) with respect to any claim or right waived in this Agreement.
11. You and the Company acknowledge having read and understanding Section 1542 of the California Civil Code: You and the Company hereby expressly waive and relinquish all rights and benefits under that section and any law of any jurisdiction of similar effect with respect to the release of any unknown or unsuspected claims.
Release of Unknown Claims.
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him or her must have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor."
12. This Agreement constitutes the complete, final and exclusive embodiment of the entire agreement between you and the Company with regard to this subject matter. It is entered into without reliance on any promise or representation, written or oral, other than those expressly contained herein, and it supersedes any other such promises, warranties or representations. This Agreement may not be modified or amended except in a writing signed by both you and a duly authorized officer of Yahoo!. This Agreement will bind the heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns of both you and the Company, and inure to the benefit of both you and the Company, their heirs, successors and assigns. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, this determination will not affect any other provision of this Agreement and the provision in question will be modified by the court so as to be rendered enforceable. This Agreement will be deemed to have been entered into and will be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of California without regard to the principles of conflicts of law.
Miscellaneous.
13.
No Admission; Rules of Construction.
a. This Agreement is not intended, and shall not be construed, as an admission that any Released Party has violated any federal, state or local law (statutory or decisional), ordinance or regulation, breached any contract or committed any wrong whatsoever against you.
b. Should any provision of this Agreement require interpretation or construction, it is agreed by the parties that the entity interpreting or construing this Agreement shall not apply a presumption against one party by reason of the rule of construction that a document is to be construed more strictly against the party who prepared the document.
 
14. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. Delivery of copies of an executed document shall be deemed a valid delivery of an executed Agreement.
Counterparts.
If this Agreement is acceptable to you, please sign below and return the original to David Windley at 701 First Avenue, Sunnyvale, California 94089.
on or after the Separation Date
I wish you good luck in your future endeavors.
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.03
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Yahoo! Inc. (NASDAQ: YHOO) today announced that the Board of Directors has named Fred Amoroso as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Ross Levinsohn as interim Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. The Company also announced that its Board has reached an agreement with Third Point LLC ("Third Point") to settle its pending proxy contest related to the Company's 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.
Sunnyvale, Calif.  May 13, 2011
Mr. Amoroso replaces Roy Bostock, who has stepped down from his role as Non-Executive Chairman in order to accelerate the leadership transition for the new Board. Mr. Levinsohn replaces Scott Thompson, former Chief Executive Officer, who has left the Company.
Under the Board's settlement agreement with Third Point, three Third Point nominees  Daniel S. Loeb, Harry J. Wilson, and Michael J. Wolf  will join the Yahoo! Board, effective May 16, 2012. Mr. Bostock, along with Patti Hart, VJ Joshi, Arthur Kern and Gary Wilson, all of whom previously disclosed their intentions not to stand for re-election, as well as Mr. Thompson, have decided to step down from the Board immediately.
As a part of the settlement agreement, Third Point, which owns an aggregate of 70,545,400 shares, or 5.8% of Yahoo! common stock, has agreed to withdraw its previous Board nominations for consideration at the annual meeting and vote its shares in support of Yahoo!'s nominees. Yahoo!'s slate of director nominees for election or re-election at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders will now include Fred Amoroso, John Hayes, Peter Liguori, Thomas McInerney, Maynard Webb, Sue James, David Kenny, Brad Smith, Daniel S. Loeb, Harry J. Wilson and Michael J. Wolf.
As interim CEO, Mr. Levinsohn will manage the Company's day-to-day operations with assistance from Yahoo!'s existing senior leadership team.
"The Board is pleased to announce these changes and the settlement with Third Point, and is confident that they will serve the best interests of our shareholders and further accelerate the substantial advances the Company has made operationally and organizationally since last August. The Board believes in the strength of the Company's business and assets, and in the opportunities before us, and I am honored to work closely with my fellow directors and Ross to continue to drive Yahoo! forward," said Fred Amoroso, Chairman of the Yahoo! Board of Directors.
Mr. Amoroso continued, "On behalf of the entire Board, I would also like to thank Patti, VJ, Arthur, Gary and, in particular, Roy, for their dedicated long-term service and contributions to the Board and Yahoo!."
Third Point Chief Executive Officer Daniel S. Loeb stated: "Harry, Michael and I are delighted to join the Yahoo! Board and work collaboratively with our fellow directors to foster a culture of leadership dedicated to innovation, excellence in corporate governance, and responsiveness to users, advertisers and partners. We are confident this Board will benefit from shareholder representation, and we are committed to working with new leadership to unlock Yahoo!'s significant potential and value."
Third Point Director Nominee Jeff Zucker stated: "I have been supportive of Third Point's efforts since Daniel asked me to join the slate. When I became aware of Yahoo!'s offer of three board seats to Third Point, I approached Daniel and let him know that I would be happy to step aside to quickly facilitate a settlement. I believe that it is in Yahoo!'s best interests to avoid a prolonged proxy fight and have new board members immediately to help move the company forward. While there is clearly much work to be done, this is the right combination of talented executives to do just that."
About Yahoo!
Yahoo! is the premier digital media company, creating deeply personal digital experiences that keep more than half a billion people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the globe. And Yahoo!'s unique combination of Science + Art + Scale connects advertisers to the consumers who build their businesses. Yahoo! is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. For more information, visit the pressroom () or the company's blog, Yodel Anecdotal ().
pressroom.yahoo.net
yodel.yahoo.com
About Third Point LLC
About Third Point LLC: Third Point is an investment firm headquartered in New York, managing $9.0 billion in assets, including a London Stock Exchange listed closed-end fund. Founded in 1995, Third Point follows an event-driven approach to investing globally.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning such matters as Yahoo!'s new directors and strategic activities and plans. Risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results predicted. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the impact of management and organizational changes; the implementation and results of any strategic plans as well as Yahoo!'s ongoing strategic and cost initiatives; Yahoo!'s ability to compete with new or existing competitors; reduction in spending by, or loss of, advertising customers; risks related to Yahoo!'s regulatory environment; interruptions or delays in the provision of Yahoo!'s services; security breaches; acceptance by users of new products and services; risks related to joint ventures and the integration of acquisitions; risks related to Yahoo!'s international operations; failure to manage growth and diversification; adverse results in litigation, including intellectual property infringement claims and recent derivative and class actions; Yahoo!'s ability to protect its intellectual property and the value of its brands; dependence on key personnel; dependence on third parties for technology, services, content, and distribution; general economic conditions and changes in economic conditions; transition and implementation risks associated with the Search Agreement with Microsoft Corporation; and risks that the benefits of the Framework Agreement Yahoo! entered into with Alibaba Group, Softbank Corporation and certain other parties regarding Alipay may not be realized. All information set forth in this press release is as of May 13, 2012. Yahoo! does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. More information about potential factors that could affect Yahoo!'s business and financial results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Yahoo!'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, as amended, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
Important Additional Information
Yahoo! has filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and will be filing a definitive proxy statement with the SEC in connection with the solicitation of proxies for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. Shareholders are strongly advised to read Yahoo!'s 2012 definitive proxy statement (including any amendments or supplements thereto) when it becomes available because it will contain important information. Shareholders will be able to obtain copies of Yahoo!'s 2012 proxy statement, any amendments or supplements to the proxy statement, and other documents filed by Yahoo! with the SEC in connection with its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders for no charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Copies of the proxy materials may also be requested from Yahoo!'s proxy solicitor, Innisfree M&A Incorporated, by telephone at (877) 750-9499 (toll-free) or by email at . Yahoo!, its directors, executive officers and certain employees are deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders in connection with Yahoo!'s 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. Information regarding Yahoo!'s directors, executive officers and other persons who, under rules of the SEC, are considered participants in the solicitation of proxies for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, including their respective interests by security holdings or otherwise, is set forth in the preliminary proxy statement Yahoo! filed with the SEC on April 27, 2012 and will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement for Yahoo!'s 2012 annual meeting of shareholders when it is filed with the SEC.
info@innisfreema.com
 
Matt Benson
Sard Verbinnen & Co
(415) 618-8750
Third Point LLC Contact:
Elissa Doyle, Managing Director
(212) 715-4907
edoyle@thirdpoint.com


