FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20120713172158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1995 Stock Plan Amendment
The Board of Directors of Yahoo! Inc. (the "Company") previously adopted an amended and restated version of the Yahoo! Inc. 1995 Stock Plan (the "Amended 1995 Plan"), subject to approval of the amendments by the Company's shareholders. At the Company's annual meeting of shareholders (the "Annual Meeting") held July 12, 2012, the Company's shareholders approved the Amended 1995 Plan. Among other things, the Amended 1995 Plan provides for an adjustment to be made to outstanding stock options, restricted stock units and other awards granted under the plan in the event that the Company determines in the future to pay an extraordinary cash dividend on its common stock.
A copy of the Amended 1995 Plan is filed as an exhibit to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Annual Meeting Results
On July 12, 2012, the Company held its Annual Meeting. At the Annual Meeting, shareholders elected each director nominee to the Board of Directors by the following votes:
 
At the Annual Meeting, shareholders voted as follows on the other proposals described in the Company's Proxy Statement as filed on Schedule 14A on June 4, 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All vote counts above have been rounded to the nearest whole share.
Information regarding the settlement of a proxy contest initiated by certain shareholders with respect to the election of directors at the Annual Meeting was included in Item 1.01 of the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed May 14, 2012 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 13, 2012
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Awards granted on or after the Effective Date shall be made under this version of the Plan and not under the Plan as previously in effect. For the terms and conditions of the Plan applicable to Awards granted under the Plan before the Effective Date, refer to the version of the Plan in effect as of the date such Award was granted. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the April 2012 amendments to the Plan apply as to all Awards outstanding under the Plan.
 
"Administrator" means the Board or any of its Committees appointed pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan.
"Applicable Laws" means any legal requirements of all state and federal laws, including without limitation securities laws and the Code, relating to the administration of stock incentive plans such as the Plan.
"Award" means an award of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Dividend Equivalents, or Performance-Based Awards (each as defined below).
"Award Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 21 of the Plan.
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Cause" shall have such meaning as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the applicable Award Agreement. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the applicable Award Agreement, the determination of Cause with respect to an Award shall be made by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Committee" means the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 4(a) of the Plan.
"Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company.
"Company" means Yahoo! Inc., a Delaware corporation.
"Consultant" means any person, but not including a Non-Employee Director, who is engaged by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company to render services and is compensated for such services.
"Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an Employee or Consultant. Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant shall not be considered interrupted in the case of: (i) sick leave; (ii) military leave; (iii) any other approved leave of absence, provided that such leave is for a period of not more than ninety (90) days, unless reemployment upon the expiration of such leave is guaranteed by contract or statute, or unless otherwise provided pursuant to Company policy adopted from time to time; or (iv) in the case of transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, its Subsidiaries or their respective successors. For purposes of the Plan,
 
a change in status from an Employee to a Consultant or from a Consultant to an Employee will not constitute an interruption of Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant. If an entity ceases to be a Subsidiary of the Company, an interruption of Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant shall be deemed to have occurred with respect to each Employee or Consultant in respect of such Subsidiary who does not continue as an Employee or Consultant in respect of the Company or another Subsidiary of the Company that continues as such after giving effect to the transaction or other event giving rise to the change in status. The Administrator shall be the sole judge of whether a Participant continues to render services for purposes of the Plan.
"Director" means a member of the Board.
"Dividend Equivalent" means a right granted under Section 13 of the Plan.
"Effective Date" means June 25, 2009.
"Employee" means any person, including Officers and Directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. The payment of compensation by the Company for service as a Director does not, alone, constitute "employment" of the Director by the Company.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the fair market value of Common Stock determined as follows:
 
 
 
provided, however, that, as to Awards subject to laws other than the laws of the United States, the Administrator may adopt a different methodology for determining Fair Market Value with respect to one or more such Awards if a different methodology is necessary or advisable to secure any intended favorable tax, legal or other treatment for the particular Award(s) (for example, and without limitation, the Administrator may provide that Fair Market Value for purposes of one or more Awards will be based on an average of closing prices (or the average of high and low daily trading prices) for a specified period preceding the relevant date).
"Full-Value Award" means any Award under the Plan other than an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right.
"Good Reason" shall have such meaning as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the applicable Award Agreement. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the applicable Award Agreement, the determination of Good Reason with respect to an Award shall be made by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
"Incentive Stock Option" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, as designated in the applicable written Option agreement.
"Non-Employee Director" shall mean a Director who is not an Employee.
 
"Nonstatutory Stock Option" means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option, as designated in the applicable written Option agreement.
"Officer" means an officer of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.
"Option" means a stock option granted under Section 9 of the Plan.
"Parent" means a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code or any successor provision.
"Participant" means an Employee or Consultant who receives an Award under the Plan.
"Performance-Based Award" has the meaning set forth in Appendix A of the Plan.
"Plan" means this 1995 Stock Plan, as amended from time to time.
"Reporting Person" means an Officer, Director, or greater than ten percent stockholder of the Company within the meaning of Rule 16a-2 under the Exchange Act, who is required to file reports pursuant to Rule 16a-3 under the Exchange Act.
"Restricted Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 11(a) of the Plan.
"Restricted Stock" means Shares acquired pursuant to Section 11 of the Plan.
"Restricted Stock Unit" means the right to receive in cash or Shares the Fair Market Value of a Share granted pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan.
"Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, as the same may be amended from time to time, or any successor provision.
"Share" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 15 of the Plan.
"Stock Appreciation Right" means a stock appreciation right granted under Section 9 of the Plan.
"Stock Exchange" means any stock exchange or consolidated stock price reporting system on which prices for the Common Stock are quoted at any given time.
"Subsidiary" means a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code, or any successor provision.
"Total Disability" shall have such meaning as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the applicable Award Agreement. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the applicable Award Agreement, Total Disability with respect to an Award shall mean a total and permanent disability within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to Awards intended to satisfy the requirements for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Plan shall be administered by a committee consisting solely of two or more outside directors (as this requirement is applied under Section 162(m) of the Code); provided, however, that the failure to satisfy such requirement shall not affect the validity of the action of any committee otherwise duly authorized and acting in the matter. Award grants, and transactions in or involving Awards, intended to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, must be duly and timely authorized by the Board or a committee consisting solely of two or more non-employee directors (as this requirement is applied under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act). To the extent required by any applicable Stock Exchange, the Plan shall be administered by a committee composed entirely of independent directors (within the meaning of the applicable Stock Exchange rules).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing and except for an adjustment pursuant to Section 15(a) or a repricing approved by stockholders, in no case may the Administrator (1) amend an outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right to reduce the exercise price or grant price of the Award, (2) provide for the cancellation, exchange, or surrender of an outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right in exchange for cash or other awards for the purpose of repricing the Award, or (3) provide for the cancellation, exchange, or surrender an outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right in exchange for an Option or Stock Appreciation Right with an exercise or grant price that is less than the exercise or grant price of the original Award.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless otherwise provided by the Administrator, an Option or Stock Appreciation Right may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
An Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such exercise has been given to the Company (or such other administrative exercise procedures as the Administrator may implement from time to time have been completed) by the person entitled to exercise the Award, and, in the case of Options, the Company has received full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised. Full payment may, as authorized by the Administrator, consist of any consideration and method of payment allowable under Section 9(d) of the Plan. Until Shares are actually issued in respect of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right and held of record by the Participant, the Participant shall have no right to vote such Shares, no right to receive dividends on such Shares, and no other rights as a stockholder with respect to such Shares, notwithstanding any earlier exercise of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such Shares promptly upon exercise of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date such Shares are issued, except as provided in Section 15 of the Plan.
Exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right in any manner shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares that thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the Plan and the Option or Stock Appreciation Right, by the number of Shares as to which the Option or Stock Appreciation Right is exercised.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In any case where a tax is required to be withheld in connection with the delivery of Shares under the Plan, the Administrator may in its sole discretion (subject to Applicable Laws) (i) require or grant (either at the time of the Award or thereafter) to the Participant the right to elect, pursuant to such rules and subject to such conditions as the Administrator may establish, that the Company reduce the number of Shares to be delivered by (or otherwise reacquire from the Participant) the appropriate number of Shares, valued in a consistent manner at their Fair Market Value or at the sales price in accordance with authorized procedures for cashless exercises, necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable withholding obligation on exercise, vesting or payment, or (ii) permit the Participant to surrender to the Company Shares which (A) in the case of Shares initially acquired from the Company, have been owned by the Participant for such period (if any) as may be required to avoid a charge to the Company's earnings, and (B) have a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld, or (iii) have the Company withhold from proceeds of the sale of such Shares (either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company on the Participant's behalf) the minimum amount required to be withheld.
For these purposes, the Fair Market Value of the Shares to be withheld or repurchased, as applicable, pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be determined on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined (the "Tax Date"). Any surrender by a Reporting Person of previously owned Shares to satisfy tax withholding obligations incurred in connection with an Award granted under the Plan must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3.
 
All elections by a Participant to have Shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations shall be made in a form acceptable to the Administrator and shall be subject to the following restrictions:
 
 
 
 
 
It is intended that, if possible, any adjustments contemplated by the preceding paragraph be made in a manner that satisfies applicable U.S. legal, tax (including, without limitation and as applicable in the circumstances, Section 424 of the Code, Section 409A of the Code and Section 162(m) of the Code) and accounting (so as to not trigger any charge to earnings with respect to such adjustment) requirements. Without limiting the generality of Section 4(c), any good faith determination by the Board as to whether an adjustment is required in the circumstances pursuant to this Section 15(a), and the extent and nature of any such adjustment, shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any of the types of Awards authorized under the Plan, as well as cash bonuses, may be granted as Awards intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code ("). The grant, vesting, exercisability or payment of Performance-Based Awards may depend (or, in the case of Qualifying Options or Qualifying Stock Appreciation Rights (each as defined below), may also depend) on the degree of achievement of one or more performance goals relative to a pre-established targeted level or level using one or more of the Business Criteria set forth below (on an absolute or relative basis) for the Company on a consolidated basis or for one or more of the Company's subsidiaries, segments, divisions or business units, or any combination of the foregoing. Any Qualifying Option or Qualifying Stock Appreciation Right shall be subject only to the requirements of Section A.1 and A.3 in order for such Award to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. Any other Performance-Based Award shall be subject to all of the following provisions of this Appendix A. (Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted with an exercise or grant price not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the date of grant are referred to as "" and "," respectively.)
Section 162(m) Performance-Based Awards.
Performance-Based Awards
"
Qualifying Options
Qualifying Stock Appreciation Rights
The eligible class of persons for Performance-Based Awards under this Appendix A shall be Officers and Employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries. Performance-Based Awards shall be approved by, and any certification required pursuant to Section A.4 must be made by, a committee of the Board that consists solely of two or more outside directors as provided for in Section 4 of the Plan in order for such Awards to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
A.1 Class; Administrator.
The specific performance goals for Performance-Based Awards (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying Stock Appreciation Rights) shall be, on an absolute or relative basis, established based on one or more of the following business criteria ("") as selected by the Administrator in its sole discretion: revenue, revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs, revenue growth (organic and acquisition related), revenue per search, EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), gross profit, operating cash flow, operating income, net income, cash flow from operations, capital expenditures, free cash flow, earnings per share (basic and diluted), return on equity or on assets or on net investment, cost containment or reduction, costs as a percentage of revenues, market share (measured by the Company's share of web search queries, user time spent online or unique visitors), stock price, total stockholder return, unique users, registered users, paying subscribers, paying users, paying relationships, page views, search queries, visits per user, user frequency, user retention, user time spent online, advertisement impressions sold, cost per advertisement impression, revenue per advertisement impression, or any combination thereof. To the extent applicable, these terms are used as applied under generally accepted accounting principles or in the financial reporting of the Company or of its Subsidiaries from time to time. To qualify awards as performance-based under Section 162(m), the applicable Business Criterion (or Business Criteria, as the case may be) and specific performance goal or goals ("targets") must be established and approved by the Administrator during the first 90 days of the performance period (and, in the case of performance periods of less than one year, in no event after 25% or more of the performance period has elapsed) and while performance relating to such target(s) remains substantially uncertain within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. To the extent provided in the applicable Award Agreement, performance targets and/or performance measurements shall be adjusted to mitigate the unbudgeted impact of material, unusual or nonrecurring gains and losses, accounting changes or other extraordinary events not foreseen at the time the targets were set unless the Administrator provides otherwise at the time of establishing the targets. The applicable performance measurement period may not be less than three months nor more than 7 years.
A.2 Performance Goals.
Business Criteria
 
Grants or awards under this Appendix A may be paid in cash or shares of Common Stock or any combination thereof. Grants of Qualifying Options and Qualifying Stock Appreciation Rights to any one Participant in any one calendar year shall be subject to the limit set forth in Section 8 of the Plan. The maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which may be delivered pursuant to Performance-Based Awards (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying Stock Appreciation Rights, and other than cash awards covered by the following sentence) that are granted to any one Participant in any one calendar year is 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock, either individually or in the aggregate, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 15(a) of the Plan. In addition, the aggregate amount of compensation to be paid to any one Participant in respect of all Performance-Based Awards payable only in cash and not related to shares of Common Stock and granted to that Participant in any one calendar year shall not exceed $20,000,000. Awards that are cancelled during the year shall be counted against this limit to the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code.
A.3 Form of Payment; Maximum Performance-Based Award.
Before any Performance-Based Award under this Appendix A (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying Stock Appreciation Rights) is paid and to the extent required to qualify the award as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator must certify in writing that the performance target(s) and any other material terms of the Performance-Based Award were in fact timely satisfied.
A.4 Certification of Payment.
The Administrator will have the discretion to determine the restrictions or other limitations of the individual Awards granted under this Appendix A including the authority to reduce Awards, payouts or vesting or to pay no Awards, in its sole discretion, if the Administrator preserves such authority at the time of grant by language to this effect in its authorizing resolutions or otherwise.
A.5 Reservation of Discretion.
As required pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, the Administrator's authority to grant new Awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying Stock Appreciation Rights) shall terminate upon the first meeting of the Company's stockholders that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which the Company's stockholders first approve this Appendix, subject to any subsequent extension that may be approved by stockholders.
A.6 Expiration of Grant Authority.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
Awards granted on or after the Effective Date shall be made under this version of the Plan and not under the Plan as previously in effect. For the terms and conditions of the Plan applicable to Awards granted under the Plan before the Effective Date (except as expressly provided herein), refer to the version of the Plan in effect as of the date such Award was granted. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the April 2012 amendments to the Plan apply as to all Awards outstanding under the Plan.
 
"Annual Meeting" means the annual meeting of the Company's stockholders for the applicable year. If more than one such meeting occurs for a particular year, the Annual Meeting for that year means only the first such meeting for that year. In the event that an Annual Meeting for a particular year is adjourned, the date of the Annual Meeting for that year for purposes of the Plan shall be the date that corresponds to the portion of Annual Meeting at which Directors were elected.
"Applicable Laws" means any legal requirements of all state and federal laws, including without limitation securities laws and the Code, relating to the administration of stock incentive plans such as the Plan.
"Award" means an award of Options or Restricted Stock Units (each as defined below).
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company.
"Company" means Yahoo! Inc., a Delaware corporation.
"Continuous Service as a Director" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as a Director.
"Director" means a member of the Board.
"Director Fees" means the amount of all compensation payable to a Director for services as a member of the Board (including service on any Board committee) that, but for any election made by such Director to receive such compensation in the form of an Award under Section 11 of the Plan, would have been payable in cash to such Director.
"Effective Date" means the date of the 2010 Annual Meeting.
"Employee" means any person, including officers and directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. The payment of compensation by the Company for service as a Director does not, alone, constitute "employment" of the Director by the Company.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the fair market value of Common Stock determined as follows:
 
 
 
 
"Option" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan. All Options shall be nonstatutory stock options (i.e., options that are not intended to qualify as incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code).
"Outside Director" means a Director who is not an Employee.
"Parent" means a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
"Participant" means an Outside Director who receives an Award.
"Plan" means this 1996 Directors' Stock Plan (formerly known as the "1996 Directors' Stock Option Plan").
"Restricted Stock Unit" means the right to receive one Share, subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
"Share" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 13 of the Plan.
"Stock Exchange" means any stock exchange or consolidated stock price reporting system on which prices for the Common Stock are quoted at any given time.
"Subsidiary" means a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
"Total Disability" means a total and permanent disability within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
"Vesting Date" with respect to a particular Award granted pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) means the last day of each of the four three-month periods following the date on which the Award is granted; provided, however, that the fourth such "Vesting Date" as to the Award shall be the first to occur of the first anniversary of the date of grant of the Award or the day before the Annual Meeting for the calendar year following the year in which the Award is granted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


