FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20120629172159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 28, 2012, Michael J. Callahan resigned as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Yahoo! Inc. (the "Company") and from all other positions with the Company, effective July 9, 2012. Mr. Callahan's resignation letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 29, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
BY EMAIL
June 28, 2012
Fred Amoroso, Chairman
Ross Levinsohn, Interim CEO
Yahoo! Inc.
701 First Avenue
Sunnyvale, California 94089
Dear Fred and Ross:
With this letter, I am notifying you of my resignation as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Yahoo! Inc., as well as all my other positions as an officer, director, trustee or other position with subsidiaries or affiliates of Yahoo! Inc., effective July 9, 2012.
After twelve and a half years with Yahoo!, I have made the decision to move on to new opportunities. Since joining Yahoo! in December 1999, I've had nothing but affection for this amazing company and its incredible employees around the world. As I depart, I have great confidence in Yahoo! and I wish you and the rest of the Yahoo! team all the best for future success.
Sincerely,
/s/ Michael J. Callahan
Michael J. Callahan


