FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20120314215825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 14, 2012, Yahoo! Inc. ("Yahoo!") issued the following press statement:
As previously stated, in order to achieve the best possible outcome for all Yahoo! shareholders, the Board's nominating and corporate governance committee continues to review a wide range of highly qualified candidates. The committee has included Third Point's candidates in its thorough review process and will make its recommendations to the full Board in due course.
Important Additional Information
Yahoo! will be filing a proxy statement with the SEC in connection with the solicitation of proxies for its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. Stockholders will be able to obtain copies of Yahoo!'s 2012 proxy statement, any amendments or supplements to the proxy statement, and other documents filed by Yahoo! with the SEC in connection with its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders for no charge at the SEC's website at .
Stockholders are strongly advised to read Yahoo!'s 2012 proxy statement (including any amendments or supplements thereto) when it becomes available because it will contain important information.
www.sec.gov
Yahoo!, its directors, executive officers and certain employees may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from stockholders in connection with Yahoo!'s 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. Information concerning the ownership of Yahoo! securities by Yahoo!'s directors and executive officers is included in their SEC filings on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and additional information is also available in Yahoo!'s proxy statement for its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders filed with the SEC on April 29, 2011. Information regarding Yahoo!'s directors, executive officers and other persons who may, under rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies for the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, including their respective interests by security holdings or otherwise, also will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement for Yahoo!'s 2012 annual meeting of stockholders when it is filed with the SEC.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 15, 2012


