FILE:YHOO/YHOO-8K-20120124161520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
January 24, 2012
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Yahoo! Inc.
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (Registrants telephone number, including area code) (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
701 First Ave.
Sunnyvale, California 94089
(408) 349-3300
Not applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 24, 2012, Yahoo! Inc., a Delaware corporation (Yahoo!), announced its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011.  A copy of Yahoo!'s press release announcing these financial results and other information regarding its financial condition is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Yahoo! under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
YAHOO!  INC.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 99.1
Yahoo! Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Results
Fourth Quarter Operating Income Increases 10% Year over Year
SUNNYVALE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 24, 2012--Yahoo! Inc. (NASDAQ: YHOO) today reported results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2011.
Revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs (revenue ex-TAC) was $1,169 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, a 3 percent decrease from the fourth quarter of 2010. Income from operations increased 10 percent to $242 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $220 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
GAAP revenue was $1,324 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, a 13 percent decrease from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Revenue ex-TAC was $4,381 million for the full year ended December 31, 2011, a 5 percent decrease from the same period of 2010. The year over year decrease was primarily due to the revenue share related to the Search Agreement with Microsoft. Income from operations increased 4 percent to $800 million for the full year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $773 million for the same period of 2010.
GAAP revenue was $4,984 million for the full year ended December 31, 2011, a 21 percent decrease from the same period of 2010, primarily due to the required change in revenue presentation related to the Search Agreement and the associated revenue share with Microsoft.
Net earnings per diluted share was $0.24 in both the fourth quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2010.
Financials at a Glance
Yahoo! continued to make progress in the quarter with operating income increasing ten percent year over year, said Scott Thompson, Yahoo! CEO. In 2012 we will be aligning resources behind key areas of focus to enable us to move aggressively in market and grow our business, bringing innovative new products and experiences to both our users and advertisers.
Business Highlights
Yahoo! is home to 11 number one properties globally and ranks in the top three in 20 categories worldwide. (comScore, December 2011)
Yahoo! continued to modernize its technology platforms, with additional sites across the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific going live on the new global Yahoo! Publishing Platform, bringing the total more than 130.
Yahoo! acquired interclick, inc., which has built an industry-leading data valuation platform optimized to work with large data volumes across multiple providers and marketplaces.
Yahoo!, AOL and Microsoft announced agreements to allow ad networks operated by the three companies to offer each other's premium nonreserved online display inventory to their respective advertising customers.
Yahoo! launched its 2012 U.S. presidential election programming, beginning with exclusive ABC News and Yahoo! News "Newsmaker" interviews with Republican candidates.
Yahoo! launched Livestand, a personalized living magazine for iPad. Livestand weaves together content from leading third-party publishers and Yahoo!'s global media network to create a visually stunning and deeply personalized digital experience tailored to its users interests and passions.
Yahoo! introduced additional products for the iPad such as Yahoo! Mail and IntoNow, an app that makes watching TV more engaging, social and fun.
Yahoo!, in conjunction with Playtone and Reliance Entertainment, will be the exclusive online broadcast partner for Tom Hanks multi-dimensional animated series Electric City.
Search Alliance Impact
Yahoo!s results for the fourth quarter of 2011 reflect $48 million in search operating cost reimbursements from Microsoft under the Search Agreement, which amount is equal to the search operating costs incurred by Yahoo! in the fourth quarter. Search operating cost reimbursements are expected to decline as Yahoo! fully transitions all markets to Microsofts search platform and, in the long term, the underlying expenses are not expected to be incurred under Yahoo!s cost structureOur business outlook for total expenses reflects these anticipated savings.
.
As previously reported, Microsoft has agreed to extend the RPS Guarantee in the U.S. and Canada through March 2013.
Fourth Quarter 2011 Revenue Highlights
Display revenue ex-TAC was $546 million, a 4 percent decrease compared to $567 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
GAAP display revenue was $612 million, a 4 percent decrease compared to $635 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Search revenue ex-TAC was $376 million, a 3 percent decrease compared to $388 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
GAAP search revenue was $465 million, a 27 percent decrease compared to $640 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Cash Flow and Cash Balance
Cash flow from operating activities for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $431 million, a 7 percent increase compared to $403 million for the same period of 2010.
Free cash flow was $327 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, a 111 percent increase compared to $155 million for the same period of 2010.
Cash, cash equivalents, and investments in marketable debt securities were $2,530 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $3,629 million at December 31, 2010, a decrease of $1,099 million. During the fourth quarter of 2011, Yahoo! repurchased 27 million shares for $416 million. During the year ended December 31, 2011, Yahoo! repurchased 110 million shares for $1,619 million.
Business Outlook
Revenue ex-TAC for the first quarter of 2012 is expected to be in the range of $1,025 million to $1,105 million. Based on the terms of the Search Agreement with Microsoft, Microsoft retains a revenue share of 12 percent of the net (after TAC) search revenue generated on Yahoo! Properties and Affiliate sites in transitioned markets. Yahoo! reports the net revenue it receives under the Search Agreement as revenue and no longer presents the associated TAC within cost of revenue. Accordingly, for transitioned markets Yahoo! reports GAAP revenue associated with the Search Agreement on a net (after TAC) basis rather than a gross basis. For markets that have not yet transitioned, revenue continues to be recorded on a gross basis, and TAC is recorded in cost of revenue. GAAP revenue for the first quarter of 2012 is expected to be in the range of $1,170 million to $1,260 million. Total expenses (cost of revenue plus total operating expenses) for the first quarter of 2012 is expected to be in the range of $1,065 million to $1,105 million. Total expenses less TAC for the first quarter of 2012 is expected to be in the range of $920 million to $950 million. Income from operations for the first quarter of 2012 is expected to be in the range of $105 million to $155 million.
Business outlook for revenue ex-TAC is being provided to reflect the underlying dynamics of the business during the Microsoft transition and to facilitate comparisons to prior periods.
Conference Call
Yahoo! will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full year 2011 results at 5 p.m. Eastern Time today. A live Webcast of the conference call, together with supplemental financial information, can be accessed through the Company's Investor Relations Website at . In addition, an archive of the Webcast can be accessed through the same link. An audio replay of the call will be available for one week following the conference call by calling (888) 286-8010 or (617) 801-6888, reservation number: 89954272.
http://investor.yahoo.com/results.cfm
Note Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and its attachments include the following financial measures defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): revenue ex-TAC; free cash flow; total expenses less TAC; non-GAAP net income; and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. These measures may be different than non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Explanations of the Companys non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations of these financial measures to the GAAP financial measures the Company considers most comparable are included in the accompanying Note to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, Supplemental Financial Data, GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income Reconciliation, and Business Outlook.
About Yahoo!
Yahoo! is the premier digital media company, creating deeply personal digital experiences that keep more than half a billion people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the globe. And Yahoo!s unique combination of Science + Art + Scale connects advertisers to the consumers who build their businesses. Yahoo! is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. For more information, visit the pressroom () or the company's blog, Yodel Anecdotal (yodel.yahoo.com).
pressroom.yahoo.net
Affiliates refers to the third-party entities that have integrated Yahoo!s advertising offerings into their Websites or other offerings (those Websites and other offerings, Affiliate sites).
RPS Guarantee in the U.S. and Canada refers to Microsofts obligation under the Search Agreement to guarantee Yahoo!s revenue per search in the U.S. and Canada on Yahoo! Properties following the transition of paid search services to Microsofts platform in those markets which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Search Agreement refers to the Search and Advertising Services and Sales Agreement between Yahoo! and Microsoft Corporation, as amended.
TAC refers to traffic acquisition costs.
TAC consists of payments to Affiliates and payments made to companies that direct consumer and business traffic to Yahoo! Properties.
Yahoo! Properties refers to the online properties and services that Yahoo! provides to users.
This press release and its attachments contain forward-looking statements concerning Yahoo!'s expected financial performance (including, without limitation, statements and information in the Business Outlook and Search Alliance Impact sections and the quotation from management), as well as Yahoo!'s strategic and operational plans. Risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results predicted, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the impact of management and organizational changes; uncertainties relating to Yahoo!s comprehensive strategic review; the implementation and results of Yahoo!'s ongoing strategic and cost initiatives; Yahoo!'s ability to compete with new or existing competitors; reduction in spending by, or loss of, advertising customers; risks related to Yahoo!s regulatory environment; interruptions or delays in the provision of Yahoo!s services; security breaches; acceptance by users of new products and services; risks related to joint ventures and the integration of acquisitions; risks related to Yahoo!'s international operations; failure to manage growth and diversification; adverse results in litigation, including intellectual property infringement claims and derivative and class actions; Yahoo!'s ability to protect its intellectual property and the value of its brands; dependence on key personnel; dependence on third parties for technology, services, content, and distribution; general economic conditions and changes in economic conditions; and transition and implementation risks associated with the Search Agreement with Microsoft Corporation. All information set forth in this press release and its attachments is as of January 24, 2012. Yahoo! does not intend, and undertakes no duty, to update this information to reflect subsequent events or circumstances; however, Yahoo! may update its Business Outlook or any portion thereof at any time in its discretion. More information about potential factors that could affect the Company's business and financial results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as amended, and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, which are on file with the SEC and available on the SEC's website at . Additional information will also be set forth in those sections in Yahoo!s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which will be filed with the SEC in the first quarter of 2012.
www.sec.gov
Yahoo!, Livestand, and the Yahoo! logos are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Yahoo! Inc. All other names are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
Yahoo! Inc.
Note to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
This press release and its attachments include the non-GAAP financial measures of revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs (revenue ex-TAC), free cash flow, total expenses (GAAP cost of revenue plus GAAP total operating expenses) less TAC, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, which are reconciled to revenue, cash flow from operating activities, total expenses (GAAP cost of revenue plus GAAP total operating expenses), net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc., and net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. common stockholders per share - diluted, which we believe are the most comparable GAAP measures. We use these non-GAAP financial measures for internal managerial purposes and to facilitate period-to-period comparisons. We describe limitations specific to each non-GAAP financial measure below. Management generally compensates for limitations in the use of non-GAAP financial measures by relying on comparable GAAP financial measures and providing investors with a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure or measures. Further, management uses non-GAAP financial measures only in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business and operating costs. These non-GAAP measures should be considered as a supplement to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, revenue, cash flow from operating activities, total expenses, net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc., and net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. common stockholders per share - diluted calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Revenue ex-TAC is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as GAAP revenue less TAC. TAC consists of payments made to third-party entities that have integrated our advertising offerings into their Websites or other offerings (those Websites and other offerings, Affiliate sites) and payments made to companies that direct consumer and business traffic to Yahoo!s online properties and services (Yahoo! Properties). Based on the terms of the Search Agreement with Microsoft, Microsoft retains a revenue share of 12 percent of the net (after TAC) search revenue generated on Yahoo! Properties and Affiliate sites in transitioned markets. Yahoo! reports the net revenue it receives under the Search Agreement as revenue and no longer presents the associated TAC within cost of revenue. Accordingly, for transitioned markets Yahoo! reports GAAP revenue associated with the Search Agreement on a net (after TAC) basis rather than a gross basis. For markets that have not yet transitioned, revenue continues to be recorded on a gross basis, and TAC is recorded in cost of revenue. We present revenue ex-TAC to provide investors a metric used by the Company for evaluation and decision-making purposes during the Microsoft transition and to provide investors with comparable revenue numbers when comparing periods preceding, during and following the transition period. We present revenue ex-TAC business outlook to reflect the underlying dynamics of the business during the Microsoft transition and to facilitate comparisons to prior periods. A limitation of revenue ex-TAC is that it is a measure which we have defined for internal and investor purposes that may be unique to the Company, and therefore it may not enhance the comparability of our results to other companies in our industry who have similar business arrangements but address the impact of TAC differently. Management compensates for these limitations by also relying on the comparable GAAP financial measures of revenue and cost of revenue, which includes TAC in non-transitioned markets.
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as cash flow from operating activities (adjusted to include excess tax benefits from stock-based awards), less acquisition of property and equipment, net and dividends received from equity investees. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure which provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the acquisition of property and equipment, which can then be used for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the Company's business, making strategic acquisitions, strengthening the balance sheet, and repurchasing stock. A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period. Management compensates for this limitation by also relying on the net change in cash and cash equivalents as presented in the Companys unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP which incorporates all cash movements during the period.
Total expenses less TAC is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as total expenses (GAAP cost of revenue plus GAAP total operating expenses) less TAC. We consider total expenses less TAC to be a useful indicator of our operating costs. We exclude TAC from this measure because TAC generally varies based on the revenue we earn from traffic supplied by certain third parties, and doing so assists investors in understanding the operating cost structure of our business. A limitation associated with the non-GAAP measure of total expenses less TAC is that it does not reflect TAC. Management compensates for this limitation by also relying on the comparable GAAP financial measures of cost of revenue and income from operations, each of which includes TAC.
Non-GAAP net income is defined as net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. excluding certain gains, losses, expenses, and their related tax effects that we do not believe are indicative of our ongoing results. We consider non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share to be profitability measures which facilitate the forecasting of our results for future periods and allow for the comparison of our results to historical periods. A limitation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share is that they do not include all items that impact our net income and net income per diluted share for the period. Management compensates for this limitation by also relying on the comparable GAAP financial measures of net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. and net income attributable to Yahoo! Inc. common stockholders per share - diluted, both of which include the gains, losses, expenses and related tax effects that are excluded from non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share.
CONTACTS: Yahoo! Inc. Dana Lengkeek, 408-349-1130 or Cathy La Rocca, 408-349-5188
Media Relations
danal@yahoo-inc.com
Investor Relations
cathy@yahoo-inc.com


