FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20021114201034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events.
 
On November 14, 2002, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the third quarter of fiscal 2002. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7.    Exhibits.
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 14, 2002
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
SAN FRANCISCO  November 14, 2002  Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today reported sales and earnings for the third quarter, which ended November 2, 2002.
 
Net sales for the third quarter increased 9 percent to $3.6 billion, compared with $3.3 billion for the third quarter last year. Comparable store sales increased 2 percent, compared with a 17 percent decrease during the same period last year.
 
The company reported third quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.15, compared with a net loss per share of $0.21 the prior year. Net earnings for the third quarter increased to $135 million, compared with a $179 million net loss last year.
 
"We're certainly pleased with our earnings for the quarter and the overall progress we're making in each of our divisions," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy are each moving in the right direction."
 
Store Sales Results By Division
The company's third quarter comparable store sales by division were as follows:
 
 
Net sales for the third quarter in each division were:
 
 
Quarterly net sales by division dating back to fiscal 2000 are now available on gapinc.com and will be updated as reported each quarter.
 
Company Announces Merchandise Inventory and Accounts Payable Adjustment  No Impact on Reported or Prospective Net Sales or Net Earnings
 
The company also announced that it has made changes in an accounting report used to record in-transit merchandise inventory. These changes correct an understatement of the company's in-transit inventory balances and the corresponding accounts payable balances.
 
While the company's in-transit inventory tracking system was accurately capturing data, a software upgrade in April 2002 inadvertently caused the system to begin generating accounting reports that understated in-transit inventory levels, the company said. While addressing this issue, the company also determined that its methodology for recording in-transit inventory required modifications to accurately report in-transit balances. These issues were identified in October and have been fully resolved. The company said its in-transit reporting system has been thoroughly tested and reviewed following the changes.
 
The table below shows the balance sheet adjustments resulting from these changes. The company said it has elected to amend its quarterly filings for the first and second quarters of 2002 to reflect the adjustments.
 
These adjustments will not impact previously reported or prospective net sales, net earnings, net cash flow, net working capital or financial covenant compliance. The company added that there was no impact on the amount of inventory actually ordered from vendors or sold to customers in any affected reporting period.
 
Table: Balance Sheet Adjustments ($000)
 
 
Fourth Quarter Outlook
Commenting on the fourth quarter, CFO Heidi Kunz said: "October performance significantly exceeded our expectations. However, our outlook remains cautious until we see more consistent performance in our business over time."
 
Real Estate Growth
Gap brand store count is based on a concepts definition. Any Gap Adult, GapKids, babyGap or GapBody concept that meets a certain square footage threshold is counted as a store, even when residing within a single physical location that may have other concepts. Store count by concept, location and square footage at third quarter end for 2002 and 2001 are as follows:
 
 
2002 and 2003 Real Estate Outlook
The company said it still expects to end fiscal 2002 with net square footage growth of around 3 percent. Concept closures will be similar to last year, but location closures will likely be higher.
 
Commenting on future growth, Ms. Kunz said: "For fiscal 2003, we expect to open stores at 30-40 new locations, which translates to 40-60 concepts. Approximately 60 percent of the resulting square footage growth is from Old Navy, with the balance spread equally among the other brands. At this point, we anticipate that store closures will likely be higher than 2002 levels, with net square footage expected to decline about 2 percent for the full 2003 fiscal year."
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Heidi Kunz, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s third quarter results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern Time today. Ms. Kunz will be joined by Paul Pressler, President & CEO; John Lillie, Vice Chairman; Maureen Chiquet, President of Banana Republic; Jenny Ming, President of Old Navy; and Gary Muto, President of Gap; to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168. International callers may dial (706) 634-0994. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcast page in the Financials & Media section of
gapinc.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release, conference call and webcast contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate", "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on 800-GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
Gap, Inc.
 
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
Gap Inc.
 
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 


