FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20030109171243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.        Other Events.
 
On January 9, 2003, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's December 2002 sales. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7.        Exhibits.
 
99.1             Press Release dated January 9, 2003
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
SAN FRANCISCO  January 9, 2003  Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported net sales of $2.5 billion for the five-week period ended January 4, 2003, which represents a 10 percent increase compared to net sales of $2.2 billion for the same period ended January 5, 2002. The company's comparable store sales for December 2002 increased 5 percent, compared to an 11 percent decrease in December 2001.
 
Comparable store sales by division for December 2002 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
"We're pleased that our December sales and merchandise margins exceeded expectations," said Chief Financial Officer Heidi Kunz. "We offered customers better balanced and brand-appropriate product assortments supported by more focused marketing and promotions.
 
"At Gap, popular product categories such as accessories and outerwear drove more customer purchases, resulting in increased conversion rates and units per transaction. Old Navy also experienced an increase in conversion rates as well as significantly improved average unit retail. In addition, we saw positive customer response to new Old Navy product that arrived in stores toward the end of the month."
 
Year-to-date net sales of $13.6 billion for the 48 weeks ended January 4, 2003 increased 3 percent compared to net sales of $13.2 billion for the same period ended January 5, 2002. The company's year-to-date comparable store sales decreased 4 percent compared to a decrease of 13 percent in the prior year.
 
As of January 4, 2003, Gap Inc. operated 4,286 store concepts compared to 4,179 store concepts last year, which represents an increase of 3 percent. The number of stores by location totaled 3,149 compared to 3,115 stores by location last year, which represents an increase of 1 percent.
 
For more detailed information, please call 800-GAP-NEWS to listen to Gap Inc.'s monthly sales recording. International callers may call (706) 634-4421.
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release and recording contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on 800-GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.


