FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20030821163013.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 21, 2003, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the second quarter ended August 2, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
On August 21, 2003, the Company issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the second quarter ended August 2, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported that earnings for the second quarter, which ended August 2, 2003, rose more than three times over last year to $209 million, driven by double-digit percentage increases in sales and gross profit. Summer marketing helped strengthen customer traffic, particularly at Gap and Old Navy, while better product assortments and inventory management resulted in more merchandise being sold at slightly better margins than during the same period last year, the company said.
SAN FRANCISCOAugust 21, 2003
 
On a diluted basis, earnings per share for the second quarter were $0.22, compared with $0.06 per share for the same period last year. Net income was $209 million, compared with $57 million for the same period last year. The company has reported four consecutive quarters of earnings growth.
 
Second quarter net sales increased 13 percent to $3.7 billion, compared with $3.3 billion for the same period last year. Comparable store sales were up 10 percent, compared with a prior year decrease of 7 percent.
 
"We're very pleased with our momentum and the increased customer acceptance of our merchandise and marketingour strategies are clearly gaining traction," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "With each quarter, our product assortments are stronger, our consumer messages are more targeted, our customer service focus is sharper and our operations are more disciplined and efficient. Our teams are doing an exceptional job."
 
Store Sales Results By Division
 
The company's second quarter comparable store sales by division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales for the second quarter in each division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
Year-to-Date Sales Results
 
Year-to-date sales of $7.0 billion for the 26 weeks ended August 2, 2003, represent an increase of 14 percent over sales of $6.2 billion for the same period last year. The company's year-to-date comparable store sales increased 11 percent compared with a decrease of 12 percent in the prior year.
 
Real Estate Outlook
 
For the second quarter, Gap Inc. decreased net square footage by 1 percent from the same period last year. The company reiterated its guidance for 2003 of an expected 2 percent decline in square footage for the full fiscal year.
 
Gap brand stores are reported based on concepts and locations. Any Gap Adult, GapKids, babyGap or GapBody that meets a certain square footage threshold has been counted as a store concept, even when residing within a single physical location that may have other concepts. The following table represents the number of store concepts and the number of locations.
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Sabrina Simmons, senior vice president, Treasury and Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s second quarter results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern time today. Ms. Simmons will be joined by Paul Pressler, Gap Inc. president and chief executive officer, Byron Pollitt, executive vice president and chief financial officer, and Jenny Ming, president of Old Navy, to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168 or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Financials & Media section of Replay of this event will be made available on (800) GAP-NEWS for four weeks after this announcement and archived on gapinc.com.
www.gapinc.com.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release, conference call and webcast contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate", "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on (800) GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOWS BEFORE FINANCING ACTIVITIES TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
(a) We believe cash flows before financing activities is an important metric, as it represents a measure of cash flow available to debtholders and shareholders. We use this metric internally, as we believe our sustained ability to grow this measure is an important driver of value creation.
 
(b) For the twenty-six weeks and thirteen weeks ended August 2, 2003, net cash used for financing activities includes the restriction of $1.2 billion cash that backs our letter of credit agreements. This restricted cash is separately presented on our balance sheet under the caption restricted cash.
 
(c) Amounts for the thirteen weeks ended August 2, 2003, were calculated by subtracting the thirteen weeks ended May 3, 2003, as presented in our first quarter Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, from the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2003, as presented in our second quarter Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
 
(d) Amounts for the thirteen weeks ended August 3, 2002, were calculated by subtracting the thirteen weeks ended May 4, 2002, as presented in our first quarter Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, from the twenty-six weeks ended August 3, 2002, as presented in our second quarter Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.


