FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20031120162905.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 20, 2003, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the third quarter ended November 1, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
On November 20, 2003, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the third quarter ended November 1, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported that earnings for the third quarter, which ended November 1, 2003, rose 94 percent over last year to $263 million driven by increased sales, product acceptance and improved margins.
SAN FRANCISCO  November 20, 2003 
 
Earnings per share for the third quarter on a diluted basis were $0.28, compared with $0.15 per share for the same period last year. Net income was $263 million, compared with $135 million for the same period last year.
 
Third quarter net sales increased 8 percent to $3.9 billion, compared with $3.6 billion for the same period last year. Comparable store sales were up 6 percent, compared with a prior year increase of 2 percent.
 
"We delivered a very solid performance for third quarter supported by better product assortments and more effective marketing to core customer segments, and a strong operational focus on flowing top-line gains through to bottom-line earnings growth," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "I'm pleased with how well our teams at Gap, Old Navy and Banana Republic are executing against our priorities. We continue to improve our customer focus and strengthen our foundation for longer-term growth."
 
Store Sales Results By Division
The company's third quarter comparable store sales by division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales for the third quarter in each division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Year-to-Date Results
Year-to-date sales of $11.0 billion for the 39 weeks ended November 1, 2003, represent an increase of 12 percent over sales of $9.8 billion for the same period last year. The company's year-to-date comparable store sales increased 9 percent compared with a decrease of 7 percent
in the prior year. Year-to-date earnings are $674 million for the 39 weeks ended November 1, 2003, compared with earnings of $229 million for the same period last year.
 
Updated 2003 and 2004 Outlook
Capital Expenditures
Year-to-date, through November 1, 2003, the company recorded $181 million in capital expenditures. For fiscal 2003, the company expects capital spending to be about $275 million, less than previous estimates of $300 million to $325 million. For fiscal 2004, the company expects capital expenditures of about $500 million.
 
Inventory
For the third quarter 2003, the company supported positive comparable store sales growth and margin improvement at lower inventory levels than prior year. The company ended the third quarter 2003 with a 7 percent decrease over prior year in inventory per square foot. The company remains focused on optimizing inventory productivity and will continue efforts to properly balance inventory with sales, while ensuring that stores are well stocked. At the end of the fourth quarter 2003, the company is planning inventory per square foot to be down on a percentage basis; the decrease is expected to be in the mid- to high-teens compared with a 13 percent increase last year. By the end of the first quarter of 2004, the company also is planning a decrease, expected to be in the high-single digits compared with a 17 percent increase in the prior year.
 
Real Estate
Year-to-date through November 1, 2003, the company opened 33 store locations and closed 75. Net square footage for the third quarter 2003 decreased by 2 percent from the same period last year. For fiscal 2003, the company expects to open about 35 store locations, weighted toward Old Navy, and close about 135 store locations, weighted toward Gap U.S. The company reiterated its guidance for 2003 of an expected 2 percent decline in net square footage for the full fiscal year. For fiscal 2004, the company expects to open about 125 store locations, weighted toward Old Navy, and expects to close about 125 store locations, weighted toward Gap U.S. Net square footage is expected to remain flat for fiscal 2004.
 
Gap brand stores are reported based on concepts and locations. Any Gap Adult, GapKids, babyGap or GapBody that meets a certain square footage threshold has been counted as a store concept, even when residing within a single physical location that may have other concepts. The following table represents the number of store concepts and the number of locations.
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
Sabrina Simmons, Senior Vice President, Treasury and Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s third quarter results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern time today. Ms. Simmons will be joined by Paul Pressler, Gap Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer, Byron Pollitt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Marka Hansen, President of Banana Republic, to discuss details on the business.
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168 or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Financials & Media section of . Replay of this event will be made available on (800) GAP-NEWS for four weeks after this announcement and archived on gapinc.com.
www.gapinc.com
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The information made available on this press release, conference call and webcast contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate", "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
All recordings made on (800) GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOWS BEFORE FINANCING ACTIVITIES TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
 
Certain amounts from prior period have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on cash flows before financing activities as previously reported.
 
(a) The thirteen weeks ended November 1, 2003, was calculated by subtracting the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2003, as presented in our second quarter Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, from the thirty-nine weeks ended November 1, 2003, as presented in our third quarter Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
 
(b) For the thirty-nine weeks and thirteen weeks ended November 1, 2003, and the twenty-six weeks ended August 2, 2003, net cash used for financing activities includes the restriction of cash that backs our letter of credit agreements and other cash which is restricted to withdrawal for use. This restricted cash is separately presented on our balance sheet under the caption restricted cash.
 
(c) We believe cash flows before financing activities is an important metric, as it represents a measure of cash flow available to debtholders and shareholders. We use this metric internally, as we believe our sustained ability to grow this measure is an important driver of value creation.
 
(d) The thirteen weeks ended November 2, 2002, was calculated by subtracting the twenty-six weeks ended August 3, 2002, as presented in our second quarter Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, from the thirty-nine weeks ended November 2, 2002, as presented in our third quarter Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.


