FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20030522161309.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On May 22, 2003, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the first quarter ended May 3, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7. Exhibits.
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and is being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure" pursuant to interim guidance issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47583. On May 22, 2003, the Company issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the first quarter ended May 3, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported significant sales and earnings growth for the first quarter as customers responded positively to improved product, marketing and customer service initiatives, particularly at the company's Gap and Old Navy brands.
SAN FRANCISCOMay 22, 2003
 
Earnings for the first quarter were $0.22 per diluted share, compared with $0.04 per diluted share for the same period of the prior year. Net income was $202 million, compared with $37 million the prior year.
 
Net sales for the first quarter, which ended on May 3, 2003, increased 16 percent to $3.4 billion, compared with $2.9 billion for the first quarter last year. Comparable store sales increased 12 percent, compared with a decrease of 17 percent during the first quarter of the prior year.
 
"I am extremely proud of what our teams accomplished in the first quarter as we continue our turnaround, build momentum and more consistently meet and exceed our customers' expectations," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "Strong product assortments with more brand-appropriate styles and color palettes, more effective marketing, and improved service in our stores clearly helped us gain traction and deliver quality earnings."
 
This quarter marks the company's third consecutive quarter of earnings growth. The company also has reported seven consecutive months of positive comparable store sales results.
 
Store Sales Results By Division
 
The company's first quarter comparable store sales by division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales for the first quarter in each division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Real Estate Outlook
 
For the first quarter, Gap Inc. increased net square footage by 1 percent from the same period in 2002. The company reiterated its guidance for 2003 of an expected 2 percent decline in square footage for the full fiscal year.
 
Gap brand stores are reported based on concepts and locations. Any Gap Adult, GapKids, babyGap or GapBody that meets a certain square footage threshold has been counted as a store concept, even when residing within a single physical location that may have other concepts. The following table represents the number of store concepts and the number of locations.
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Sabrina Simmons, senior vice president, Treasury and Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s first quarter results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern time today. Ms. Simmons will be joined by Paul Pressler, Byron Pollitt, executive vice president and chief financial officer, and Gary Muto, president of Gap, to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168 or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Financials & Media section of www.gapinc.com.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release, conference call and webcast contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate", "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on (800) GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 
Gap Inc.
 
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
Gap Inc.
 
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Gap Inc.
 
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
Gap Inc.
 
SEC REGULATION G
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOWS BEFORE FINANCING ACTIVITIES
TO OUR FIRST QUARTER 2003 UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 


