FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20041202163545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On December 2, 2004, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's sales for the month ended November 27, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
On December 2, 2004, the Company also issued a press release announcing an additional $250 million for the Company's existing share repurchase program. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported net sales of $1.4 billion for the four-week period ended November 27, 2004, even with net sales of $1.4 billion for the same period ended November 29, 2003. The company's comparable store sales for November 2004 decreased 4 percent, compared with a 6 percent increase in November 2003.
SAN FRANCISCO  December 2, 2004 
 
Comparable store sales by division for November 2004 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
"Although customer response to holiday merchandise in October was initially promising, demand slowed in November," said Sabrina Simmons, Senior Vice President, Treasury and Investor Relations. "As customers head into the peak holiday shopping period, we are closely managing our holiday promotions to offer compelling value."
 
Year-to-date net sales of $12.8 billion for the 43 weeks ended November 27, 2004, increased 3 percent compared with net sales of $12.4 billion for the same period ended November 29, 2003. The company's year-to-date comparable store sales increased 1 percent compared with a 9 percent increase in the prior year.
 
Based on November performance and its revised outlook for the fourth quarter, the company announced that it now expects operating margins for fiscal 2004, not including expenses related to early retirement of debt, of 12.5 percent to 13 percent, below prior guidance.
 
As of November 27, 2004, Gap Inc. operated 3,069 store locations compared with 3,070 store locations last year.
 
For more detailed information, please call 800-GAP-NEWS to listen to Gap Inc.'s monthly sales recording. International callers may call 706-634-4421.
 
Share Repurchase Program
 
In a separate release issued today, the company also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized an additional $250 million for its share repurchase program, effective immediately, and that it has nearly completed the initial $750 million share repurchase authorization. The share repurchase program totals $1 billion with today's announcement.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release and recording contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used,
the words "estimate," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on 800-GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today announced the company's Board of Directors has authorized an additional $250 million for its share repurchase program, effective immediately, underscoring the company's continued confidence in the long-term growth of its business. Shares may be repurchased over the next twelve months.
SAN FRANCISCO  December 2, 2004 
 
The company previously announced a $750 million share repurchase program. Through December 1, 2004, the company has repurchased about 33 million shares for $686 million.
 
"We're pleased to extend our share repurchase program to $1 billion and continue returning excess cash to our shareholders," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler.
 
As with the previous share repurchase programs, the company may repurchase shares of its common stock on the open market at times and prices considered appropriate by management. Repurchasing may take place through brokers and dealers or in privately negotiated transactions with nonaffiliated stockholders, and may be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
 
Gap Inc. has made significant progress in strengthening its balance sheet and improving its credit rating. Since May 2003, the company has reduced debt by more than $1.5 billion, including debt retirement in the third quarter.
 
Forward-looking statements
 
The information made available on this press release contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 


