FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20040520163059.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On May 20, 2004, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the first quarter ended May 1, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7. Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 20, 2004, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the first quarter ended May 1, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported that net earnings for the first quarter, which ended May 1, 2004, rose 54 percent over prior year to $312 million, or $0.32 per share on a diluted basis, compared with $202 million for the same period last year. Results were driven by significant gross profit improvement and higher sales.
SAN FRANCISCO  May 20, 2004 
 
As previously announced with the company's April sales release on May 6, 2004, reported earnings per share include about $0.02, or about $30 million, of expenses related to premiums paid on early retirement of $170 million of funded debt. This $30 million is included in operating expenses for the first quarter.
 
First quarter net sales increased 9 percent to $3.7 billion, compared with $3.4 billion for the same period last year. Comparable store sales increased 7 percent, compared with a prior year increase of 12 percent.
 
"Strong product acceptance at Gap, Old Navy and Banana Republic and tight inventory management drove record earnings for our shareholders in the first quarter," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "We're pleased with our continued progress in better serving customers in our existing business as we build a foundation for longer-term growth."
 
Store Sales Results By Division
 
The company's first quarter comparable store sales by division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales for the first quarter in each division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
2004 Results and Outlook
 
Cash and Debt
 
The company announced that it ended the quarter with $2 billion more in cash and short-term investments than funded debt. Consistent with the goal to return credit ratings to investment grade, the company continues to execute on opportunities to pay down debt, and retired an additional $170 million during the first quarter of 2004, reducing funded debt to $2.6 billion.
 
Margins
 
Improved merchandise margins and the leveraging of rent, occupancy and depreciation helped drive an almost five-point improvement in gross margin in the first quarter over prior year. Operating margins, excluding charges related to early debt retirement, are expected to reach the low end of the mid-teens range for the full year 2004.
 
Inventory
 
The company reported that inventory per square foot decreased 12 percent at the end of the first quarter. The company will continue its focus on inventory productivity, and expects inventory per square foot at the end of the second quarter to be down on a percentage basis in the low single digits, compared with a 10 percent increase in the prior year. Inventory per square foot at the end of the third quarter is also expected to be down in the low single digits, compared with a 7 percent decline in the prior year.
 
Operating Expenses
 
The company expects operating expense dollars for 2004 to increase by 9 to 10 percent for the full year and 15 percent for the first half. This increase is driven by both non-operational factors and strategic growth initiatives in addition to variable expense.
 
Interest Expense
 
The company expects full year 2004 gross interest expense to be about $200 million and about $50 million per quarter for the remaining quarters. The decrease from previous guidance is due to the reduction in interest expenses related to first quarter debt retirement and the recent credit ratings upgrade.
 
Real Estate
 
For the first quarter, net square footage declined by 2 percent from the same period in 2003, and the company ended the quarter with 3,016 store locations. New store openings for fiscal 2004 are anticipated to be about 125 locations, weighted toward Old Navy, and closings are expected to be about 135 store locations, weighted toward Gap U.S. A summary of 2004 store opening and closure guidance by division is posted on the company's Web site at www.gapinc.com. The company reiterated its expectation that net square footage would remain flat for the full year 2004.
 
The following table represents store location openings and closings, and square footage by brand.
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Sabrina Simmons, senior vice president, Treasury and Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s first quarter results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern time today. Ms. Simmons will be joined by Paul Pressler, Gap Inc. president and chief executive officer, Byron Pollitt, executive vice president and chief financial officer, and Jenny Ming, president of Old Navy, to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168 or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Financials & Media section of www.gapinc.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release, conference call and webcast contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on (800) GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOWS BEFORE FINANCING AND SHORT-TERM INVESTING ACTIVITIES TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
Certain amounts from prior period have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on cash flow before financing and short-term investing activities as previously reported.
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
 
RECONCILIATION OF NET EARNINGS BEFORE LOSS ON EARLY RETIREMENT OF DEBT AND NET EARNINGS PER SHARE BEFORE LOSS ON EARLY RETIREMENT OF DEBT TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 


