FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20040226163138.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On February 26, 2004, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the fourth quarter and the year ended January 31, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7. Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 26, 2004, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the fourth quarter and year ended January 31, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today announced that fourth quarter earnings were $0.37 per share on a diluted basis, a 37 percent increase over prior year, with full-year 2003 earnings more than doubling prior year to $1 billion, or $1.09 per share on a diluted basis. The strong year-over-year increase resulted from positive comparable store sales at higher margins, driven by customer acceptance of improved product assortments and tighter inventory management, the company said.
SAN FRANCISCO  Feb. 26, 2004 
 
"We achieved strong earnings performance in 2003 by better understanding and serving our customers and improving our operating discipline," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "We also significantly improved our cash flow and lowered our debt, which puts our company in a healthier financial position to further strengthen our brands and to begin funding longer term growth opportunities."
 
Fourth Quarter Results
 
Net sales for the fourth quarter, which ended Jan. 31, 2004, increased 5 percent to $4.9 billion, compared with $4.7 billion for the fourth quarter last year. Comparable store sales increased 3 percent, compared with an increase of 8 percent during the same period last year.
 
The company reported net income of $356 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter, compared with net income of $249 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, in the same period last year.
 
Fiscal 2003 Results
 
Net sales of $15.9 billion for the 52 weeks ended Jan. 31, 2004, increased 10 percent, compared with net sales of $14.5 billion for same period ended Feb. 1, 2003. The company's comparable store sales for the year increased 7 percent, compared with a decrease of 3 percent in the prior year.
 
For the year, the company reported net income of $1.0 billion, or $1.09 per diluted share, compared with net income of $477 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, last year.
 
Fourth Quarter Store Sales Results By Division
 
The company's fourth quarter comparable store sales by division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales for the fourth quarter in each division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year Store Sales Results By Division
 
For fiscal 2003, the company's comparable store sales by division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales for fiscal 2003 in each division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
Gap Inc. decreased net square footage by 2 percent in 2003 and ended the quarter with 4,147 concepts in 3,022 store locations.
 
The following table represents the number of store concepts and locations, and square footage by brand.
 
 
(Note: Brand totals include outlet locations; Banana Republic and Old Navy store counts include stores located in Canada)
 
Gap Inc. also announced today a change in how store openings and closings are reported, in addition to how stores are counted. Effective first quarter 2004, the company will report actual store openings and closings by division on a quarterly basis. Store concept reporting will not be provided beyond fiscal 2003; instead, the company will count stores only by locations. Because concept reporting is based on square footage thresholds that change over time as our businesses change, store location reporting is a more useful and clearly defined measure.
 
2004 Outlook
 
Inventory
 
The company reported that inventory per square foot decreased 16 percent at the end of the fourth quarter, resulting from more disciplined inventory management. In 2004, the company will continue its focus on inventory productivity, and expects inventory per square foot at the end of the first quarter to be down on a percentage basis in the low- to mid-teens, compared with a 17 percent increase in 2003. Inventory per square foot at the end of the second quarter of 2004 is expected to be down in the low- to mid-single digits, compared with a 10 percent increase the prior year.
 
Operating Expenses
 
The company expects operating expense dollars for 2004 to increase 5 percent to 6 percent. This increase is driven by both non-operational factors and strategic growth initiatives in addition to normal payroll increases. During the first half of 2004, operating expense dollars are expected to increase about 10 percent, driven primarily by investments in advertising expenses and growth
initiatives. The incremental advertising spend includes Hispanic marketing and increased newspaper circular frequency at Old Navy, and an additional summer TV campaign at Gap.
 
Margins
 
Improved product assortments and better inventory management helped drive a four-point improvement in gross margin for 2003, and the company anticipates further margin improvement in 2004. Over the next two years, the company expects it can achieve operating margins in the mid-teens.
 
Capital Expenditures
 
The company said it expects capital spending to be about $500 million in 2004, primarily to fund new and existing stores and information technology. Capital expenditures for 2003 were approximately $272 million, down 10 percent compared with the prior year.
 
Interest Expense
 
The company expects full year gross interest expense to be $210 to $220 million dollars, compared with $234 million dollars in 2003. The decrease is due to the reduction in interest expenses related to the debt the company retired in 2003.
 
Real Estate
 
The company announced net square footage is expected to remain flat for 2004. The following table represents the number of store openings and closings by division expected in the full year. These numbers may vary based on final lease negotiations.
 
 
February Sales
 
The company will report February sales on March 4, 2004.
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Evan Price, Director, Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s fourth quarter and fiscal 2003 results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern time today. Paul Pressler, Gap Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer; Byron Pollitt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Gary Muto, President of Gap U.S., will join Mr. Price to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168 or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Financials & Media section of gapinc.com. Replay of this event will be made available on (800) GAP-NEWS for four weeks after this announcement and archived on gapinc.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release, conference call and webcast contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking
statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on 800-GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOW BEFORE FINANCING ACTIVITIES TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
Certain amounts from prior period have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on cash flow before financing activities as previously reported.
 


