FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20040930160851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On September 28, 2004, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing Judge Glenda Hatchett's resignation from the Company's Board of Directors, effective October 31, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today announced that Judge Glenda Hatchett has decided to leave the company's Board of Directors, effective October 31, due to professional commitments.
SAN FRANCISCO  September 28, 2004 
 
A former judge in Georgia, Ms. Hatchett presided over the Fulton County Juvenile Court for eight years, making her the first African-American chief presiding justice of a Georgia state court. Today, she is well known as the judge on the syndicated courtroom television program "Judge Hatchett," which premiered in 2000.
 
Ms. Hatchett informed the company's board of her decision during a regularly scheduled board meeting. She has served on Gap Inc.'s Board of Directors since 1999 and is a member of the board's Governance, Nominating and Social Responsibility Committee, and has also served in the past on the Compensation and Management Development Committee.
 
"For the past five years, Glenda has provided valuable support and insight to Gap Inc.'s board and management team," said Bob Fisher, Chairman, Gap Inc. Board of Directors. "On behalf of the board, I'd like to thank Glenda for her many contributions."
 
With this announcement, Gap Inc.'s board will have 13 directors  nine of whom are independent as defined by the New York Stock Exchange. All board members are elected annually at the company's shareholders' meeting to one-year terms.
 
With Ms. Hatchett's departure, seven independent board members continue to serve on the company's Governance, Nominating and Social Responsibility Committee, which is chaired by Bob L. Martin, the board's Lead Independent Director.
 
More information about Gap Inc.'s Board of Directors and corporate governance practices can be found on the company's Web site at gapinc.com.
 
 
Gap Inc. is a leading international specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy brand names. Fiscal 2003 sales were $15.9 billion. As of August 28, 2004, Gap Inc. operated 3,016 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France and Japan. In the United States, customers also may shop the company's online stores at gap.com, BananaRepublic.com and oldnavy.com.
 


