FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20041118163737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On November 18, 2004, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the third quarter ended October 30, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On November 18, 2004, the Company also issued a press release announcing plans to expand its Banana Republic brand to Japan. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported that net earnings for the third quarter, including the loss on early retirement of debt, increased 1 percent to $265 million, or $0.28 per share on a diluted basis. Year-to-date earnings for the 39 weeks ended October 30, 2004 increased 14 percent to $771 million, or $0.81 cents per share, compared to $0.72 per share for the same period last year.
SAN FRANCISCO  November 18, 2004 
 
As previously announced with the company's October sales release on November 4, 2004, reported earnings per share reflects about $10 million of pre-tax expenses related to premiums paid on early retirement of $122 million of debt in the third quarter. Year-to-date earnings reflects $105 million in premiums and about $20 million in interest savings.
 
Third quarter net sales increased 1 percent to $4.0 billion, compared with $3.9 billion for the same period last year. Comparable store sales were down 1 percent for the quarter compared with a prior year increase of 6 percent.
 
Year-to-date sales of $11.4 billion for the 39 weeks ended October 30, 2004, represent an increase of 4 percent for the same period last year. The company's year-to-date comparable store sales increased 2 percent compared with an increase of 9 percent in the prior year.
 
Consistent with its goal to strengthen its balance sheet and return excess cash to shareholders, the company continued to execute on opportunities to pay down debt and announced a $750 million share repurchase plan. Through October 30, 2004, the company has repurchased about 17 million shares for $338 million.
 
"We're pleased with our strong year-to-date earnings. For the third quarter, we delivered solid margins and earnings while using our strong cash position to retire debt early and launch a $750 million share repurchase program," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "As we head into the fourth quarter, we are well positioned for holiday."
 
Store Sales Results By Division
 
The company's third quarter comparable store sales by division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales for the third quarter in each division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
Additional Results and 2004 Outlook
 
Cash and Debt
 
After retiring $397 million in debt and repurchasing about 17 million shares for $338 million, the company ended the quarter with $1.9 billion more in cash and short-term investments than debt. Year-to-date the company has retired about $871 million in debt. During the quarter, Moody's upgraded the company's credit rating to one notch below investment grade.
 
Margins
 
Disciplined inventory and fleet management helped drive a 50 basis point improvement in gross margin over the prior year. Operating margin for the full year 2004, excluding charges related to early retirement of debt, is still expected to reach the low end of the mid-teens range, which the company defines as 13.5 percent to 16.4 percent.
 
Inventory
 
The company reported that inventory per square foot increased 1 percent year-over-year at the end of the third quarter. The company expects inventory per square foot at the end of the fourth quarter to be up in the low-single digits, versus down 16 percent last year. Inventory per square foot at the end of the first quarter of 2005 is expected to be flat versus a 12 percent decrease for the same period last year.
 
Operating Expenses
 
The company now expects operating expenses for 2004, including charges related to early retirement of debt, to increase by about 10 percent over 2003, with operating expenses still expected to be up about 3 percent in the fourth quarter. Marketing expenses are expected to be about $540 million for the full year.
 
Interest Expense
 
The company now expects full year 2004 gross interest expense to be about $170 million, below prior guidance of about $200 million due to reduced interest related to third quarter bond repurchases, a renegotiated credit facility, and recent credit upgrade, which reduces interest on the company's 2008 bonds. Gross interest expense is now expected to be about $36 million for the fourth quarter.
 
Capital Expenditures, Depreciation and Amortization, and Effective Tax Rate
 
The company now expects its full-year 2004 capital spending to be about $450 million, which is lower than the company's prior guidance. The company reiterated that it expects depreciation and amortization of about $600 million and an effective tax rate of 38.5 percent to 39.5 percent.
 
Real Estate
 
Year-to-date through October 30, 2004, the company opened 102 store locations and closed 73. Net square footage for the third quarter 2004 was flat compared with the same period last year. For fiscal 2004, the company expects to open about 125 store locations, weighted toward Old Navy, and close about 160 store locations, weighted toward Gap U.S. Net square footage is expected to remain flat for fiscal 2004.
 
The following table represents the number of store location openings and closings, and square footage by brand.
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Sabrina Simmons, Senior Vice President, Treasury and Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s third quarter results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern time today. Ms. Simmons will be joined by Paul Pressler, Gap Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer, Byron Pollitt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Nick Cullen, Chief Supply Chain Officer, to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168 or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Financials & Media section of . Replay of this event will be made available on (800) GAP-NEWS for four weeks after this announcement and archived on gapinc.com.
www.gapinc.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release, conference call and webcast contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate", "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on (800) GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOWS BEFORE FINANCING AND SHORT-TERM INVESTING ACTIVITIES TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
Certain amounts from prior period have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on cash flow before financing and short-term investing activities as previously reported.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today announced plans to expand its Banana Republic brand to Japan. Three stores are scheduled to open in leading Tokyo shopping areas in the fall of 2005 with additional openings to follow in the spring of 2006.
SAN FRANCISCO  November 18, 2004
 
With its affinity for fashion and luxury products, Japan offers a strong market for Banana Republic. The brand, which currently has more than 450 stores and annual sales of more than $2 billion in North America, is known for offering modern interpretations of classic fashion for women and men through elevated design and luxurious fabrications at affordable prices.
 
"Many Japanese tourists and business travelers are loyal shoppers at our Banana Republic flagship locations in cities such as New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco. We're often asked, when is Banana Republic coming to Japan?" said Paul Pressler, President and CEO, Gap Inc. "We're pleased to bring Banana Republic to Tokyo, making Japan the brand's first market outside of North America. Expanding our brand portfolio in Japan builds on almost a decade's worth of retail experience in the country. Japan will continue to be an important long-term growth market for us."
 
Gap currently is the company's only brand operating outside of North America, with about 240 store locations in the United Kingdom, France and Japan. Growing Gap brand in those markets and exploring opportunities to expand the company's Banana Republic and Old Navy brands is a key focus of the company's long-term international growth strategy. Gap brand opened its first store location in Tokyo in 1995. Today, the company operates approximately 75 Gap store locations in major cities such as Osaka, Nagoya, Kobe, Fukuoka, and Tokyo, including a flagship store in the city's trendy Harajuku district.
 
Andrew Rolfe, President of Gap Inc.'s International Division, will oversee Banana Republic's expansion in Japan. A Japan-based merchandising team will tailor style, color and fit assortments to satisfy customer preferences in the more fashion-forward Japanese market. The Banana Republic Japan team will leverage the design, marketing talent and operational expertise of Banana Republic's North American team, led by Marka Hansen, brand president for Banana Republic.
 
"As we grow internationally, we're balancing the global strength and appeal of our brands with a sensitivity toward local customer style and fashion preferences," Mr. Rolfe said. "Japan offers an exciting fashion market with sophisticated shoppers. We look forward to serving them with the Banana Republic brand."
 
Gap Inc. is a leading international specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy brand names. Fiscal 2003 sales were $15.9 billion. As of October 30, 2004, Gap Inc. operated 3,051 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France and Japan. In the United States, customers also may shop the company's online stores at gap.com, BananaRepublic.com and oldnavy.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release and recording contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject
to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
 


