FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20041104155052.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On November 4, 2004, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's sales for the month and quarter ended October 30, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On November 4, 2004, the Company also issued a press release announcing an increase of $250 million to the Company's existing $500 million share repurchase program. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported net sales of $1.3 billion for the four-week period ended October 30, 2004, which represents a 5 percent increase compared with net sales of $1.2 billion for the same period ended November 1, 2003. The company's comparable store sales for October 2004 increased 3 percent compared with a 1 percent increase in October 2003.
SAN FRANCISCO  November 4, 2004 
 
Comparable store sales by division for October 2004 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
"We're pleased with how our overall performance improved in October as Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy continued to clear fall merchandise," said Sabrina Simmons, Senior Vice President, Treasury and Investor Relations. "We're well positioned for holiday and the launch of our marketing campaigns this month."
 
Third Quarter Sales Results and Earnings Guidance
 
For the 13 weeks ended October 30, 2004, net sales of $4.0 billion represent an increase of 1 percent compared with net sales of $3.9 billion for the same period ended November 1, 2003. The company's third quarter comparable store sales decreased 1 percent compared with an increase of 6 percent in the third quarter of the prior year.
 
The company announced that it expects earnings per share for the third quarter to be 27 to 28 cents, which reflects about $0.01 in expenses related to premiums paid on the early retirement of debt due in 2005.
 
The company reiterated that it expects inventory per square foot at the end of the third quarter to be flat.
 
Comparable store sales by division for the third quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
As of October 30, 2004, Gap Inc. operated 3,051 store locations compared with 3,075 store locations last year.
 
For more detailed information, please call 800-GAP-NEWS to listen to Gap Inc.'s monthly sales recording. International callers may call 706-634-4421.
Share Repurchase Program
 
In a separate release issued today, the company also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized an additional $250 million for its share repurchase program, effective immediately. The share repurchase program totals $750 million with today's announcement. The program is the first since the fourth quarter of 2000, reflecting the company's turnaround efforts during the past two years and improved performance of its Gap, Old Navy and Banana Republic brands.
 
More information about the share repurchase program can be found in the press release in the Financials & Media section of gapinc.com.
 
Gap Inc. will release its third quarter earnings via press release on November 18, 2004, at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time. In addition, the company will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s third quarter results in a live conference call and webcast at approximately 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. The conference call can be accessed by calling 800-374-0168 and international callers may dial 706-634-0994. The webcast can be accessed at .
www.gapinc.com
 
Gap Inc. will announce November sales on December 2, 2004.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release and recording contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on 800-GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today announced the company's Board of Directors has authorized an additional $250 million for its share repurchase program, effective immediately. Shares may be repurchased through September 2005.
SAN FRANCISCO  November 4, 2004 
 
This announcement underscores the company's continued confidence in the long-term growth of its business and reflects the success of its $500 million share repurchase program, announced on October 7, which is near completion.
 
"We're pleased to announce an additional $250 million, which reflects our strong cash balance and reinforces our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders while maintaining a strong balance sheet," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler.
 
As with the previous share repurchase program, the company may repurchase shares of its common stock on the open market at times and prices considered appropriate by management. Repurchasing may take place through brokers and dealers or in privately negotiated transactions with nonaffiliated stockholders, and may be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
 
The share repurchase program, totaling $750 million with today's announcement, is the first since the fourth quarter of 2000, reflecting the company's turnaround efforts during the past two years and improved performance of its Gap, Old Navy and Banana Republic brands.
 
Gap Inc. has made significant progress in strengthening its balance sheet and improving its credit rating. Since May 2003, the company has reduced debt by more than $1.5 billion, including debt retirement in the third quarter.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 


