FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20040819163154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 19, 2004, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the second quarter ended July 31, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today announced that second quarter net earnings before loss on early retirement of debt were $234 million, a 12 percent increase over prior year, or $0.25 per share. Reported net earnings, including the loss on early retirement of debt, for the second quarter, which ended July 31, 2004, were $194 million, or $0.21 per share on a diluted basis, compared with $209 million, or $0.22 per share, for the same period last year.
SAN FRANCISCO  August 19, 2004 
 
As previously announced with the company's July sales release on August 5, 2004, reported earnings per share reflects $0.04, or $65 million, of pre-tax expenses related to premiums paid on early retirement of $303 million of debt.
 
Second quarter net sales increased 1 percent to $3.72 billion, compared with $3.69 billion for the same period last year. Comparable store sales were flat, compared with a prior year increase of 10 percent.
 
"We delivered solid second quarter margin gains and double-digit earnings growth before expenses related to our debt repurchase, despite summer clearance against weaker traffic trends driving disappointing results in June and July," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "Our priorities remain focused on driving growth within each brand, actively exploring new growth opportunities, reducing our debt and returning to investment grade standing."
 
Store Sales Results By Division
 
The company's second quarter comparable store sales by division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales for the second quarter in each division were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Year-to-Date Results
 
Year-to-date sales of $7.4 billion for the 26 weeks ended July 31, 2004, represent an increase of 5 percent over sales of $7.0 billion for the same period last year. The company's year-to-date comparable store sales increased 3 percent compared with an increase of 11 percent in the prior year. Net earnings before loss on early retirement of debt for the first half of 2004 were $564 million, a 37 percent increase over prior year. Reported net earnings for the first half of 2004, reflecting expenses related to early retirement of debt, were $506 million, compared with $412 million for the same period last year.
Additional Results and 2004 Outlook
 
Cash and Debt
 
The company announced that it ended the quarter with $2.0 billion more in cash and short-term investments than debt. Consistent with its goal to strengthen its balance sheet, the company continues to execute on opportunities to pay down debt. During the second quarter, the company retired $303 million, reducing funded debt to $2.3 billion. Early in the quarter, Moody's upgraded the company's credit rating, and Standard and Poor's recently raised its outlook on the company's credit rating from stable to positive. Year to date the company has repurchased $473 million in debt through early retirement.
 
Margins
 
Disciplined inventory management supported year-over-year merchandise margin improvement of 2 percentage points in the second quarter, and helped drive a three-point improvement in gross margin over prior year. Operating margins for the full year 2004, excluding charges related to early retirement of debt, are still expected to reach the low-end of the mid-teens range, which the company defines as 13.5 to 16.4 percent.
 
Inventory
The company reported that inventory per square foot decreased 7 percent year-over-year at the end of the second quarter. The company will continue its focus on inventory productivity, and now expects inventory per square foot at the end of the third quarter to be flat on a percentage basis, compared with a 7 percent decrease in the prior year. Inventory per square foot at the end of the fourth quarter is expected to be up in the low-single digits, compared with a 16 percent decline in the prior year.
 
Operating Expenses
 
The company now expects operating expenses for 2004, including loss on early retirement of debt in the first half, to increase by about 11 percent over 2003, with operating expenses up about 11 percent in the third quarter and up about 3 percent in the fourth quarter. The company's prior guidance of an expected 9 to 10 percent increase in total year operating expense dollars did not contemplate early debt retirement in the second quarter. Marketing expenses are still expected to be about $560 million for the full year 2004.
 
Interest Expense
 
The company now expects full year 2004 gross interest expense to be about $180 million, below prior guidance of about $200 million due to reduced interest expense related to second quarter debt retirement. Gross interest expense is now expected to be about $43 million for the third quarter and about $41 million for the fourth quarter.
 
Capital Expenditures, Depreciation and Amortization, and Effective Tax Rate
 
The company reiterated its expectation for full-year 2004 capital spending of about $500 million, depreciation and amortization of $600 to $625 million and effective tax rate of 38.5 to 39.5 percent.
 
Real Estate
 
For the second quarter, net square footage declined by 2 percent from the same period in 2003, and the company ended the quarter with 2,999 store locations. New store openings for fiscal 2004 are still anticipated to be about 125 locations, weighted toward Old Navy, and closings are now expected to be about 150 store locations, weighted toward Gap U.S. Compared with previous guidance, this reflects 15 more store closings, all of which are in Gap U.S. A summary of 2004 store opening and closure guidance by division is posted on the company's Web site at www.gapinc.com. The company reiterated its expectation that net square footage would remain flat for the full year 2004. The following table represents store location openings and closings, and square footage by brand.
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Sabrina Simmons, Senior Vice President, Treasury and Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s second quarter results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern time today. Ms. Simmons will be joined by Paul Pressler, Gap Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer, Byron Pollitt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Marka Hansen, President of Banana Republic, to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168 or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Financials & Media section of www.gapinc.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The information made available on this press release, conference call and webcast contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect Gap Inc.'s current view of future events and financial performance. Wherever used, the words "estimate," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "may" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and the company's future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks include, without limitation, ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in countries where the company's goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings and/or other factors that may be described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and/or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenues and profitability are difficult to predict. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on (800) GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOWS BEFORE FINANCING AND SHORT-TERM INVESTING ACTIVITIES TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Certain amounts from prior period have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on cash flow before financing and short-term investing activities as previously reported.
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
 
RECONCILIATION OF NET EARNINGS BEFORE LOSS ON EARLY RETIREMENT OF DEBT AND NET EARNINGS PER SHARE BEFORE LOSS ON EARLY RETIREMENT OF DEBT TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 


