FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20050818163027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 18, 2005, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the second quarter ended July 30, 2005. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported that net earnings for the second quarter, which ended July 30, 2005, increased 39 percent versus prior year to $272 million, or $0.30 per share on a diluted basis, compared with $195 million, or $0.21 per share, for the same period last year.
SAN FRANCISCO  August 18, 2005 
 
Second quarter net sales were $3.7 billion, compared with $3.7 billion for the same period last year. Comparable store sales decreased 3 percent, compared with a flat comp in the prior year.
 
"In the second quarter, we delivered respectable financial results with an increase in earnings per share, but our summer product performance continued to be challenging," said Gap Inc. CEO and President Paul Pressler. "Although we are still facing challenges, we are committed to executing our strategies to improve business performance for the second-half of the year. Across all of our brands, the teams are focused on creating stronger product assortments and improving the store experience for our customers."
 
Store Sales Results By Division
 
The following table represents the company's second quarter comparable store sales and net sales by division:
 
 
Additional Results and 2005 Outlook
 
Earnings
 
The company had expected fiscal year 2005 earnings per share of $1.44 to $1.48. This previous guidance was predicated in part on the belief that the company's efforts to improve performance would begin to gain momentum by fall. In part due to August month-to-date results, which are significantly below expectations, and concerns about the macro-economic climate, the company has revised its estimate for fiscal year 2005 earnings per share to $1.30 to $1.34.
Cash and Debt
 
The company announced that it ended the second quarter with $2.6 billion in cash and short-term and long-term investments, of which $97 million was restricted. This represents $2.1 billion more in cash and investments than funded debt. For the 26 weeks ended July 30, 2005, free cash flow was an inflow of $21 million, compared with an inflow of $88 million last year. The company still expects to generate at least $1 billion in free cash flow in fiscal 2005. Please see the reconciliation of free cash flow to the GAAP financial measure in the table at the end of this release.
 
Share Repurchases
 
During the second quarter, the company purchased 45 million shares for $944 million and announced that its Board of Directors authorized an additional $500 million for its share repurchase program. Since October 2004, the company has utilized $2.5 billion to repurchase 119 million shares. At the end of the second quarter, the company's outstanding shares were 881 million.
 
Margins
 
Gross margins declined 1.2 points in the second quarter compared to the prior year. Operating margin for the second quarter was 11.5 percent. As previously announced, the company reversed a sublease loss reserve during the second quarter that benefited operating margins. The amount of the reserve reversal was $58 million pre-tax. For reasons similar to those stated for the revised earnings guidance, the company also revised its guidance for full year 2005 operating margins to about 11.5 percent, down from previous guidance of about 13 percent.
 
Inventory
 
The company reported that inventory per square foot was down 3 percent at the end of the second quarter as compared to a 7 percent decline in the second quarter of the prior year. Inventory per square foot at the end of the third quarter is expected to be down in the low single digits, compared with a 1 percent increase last year. Inventory per square foot for the fourth quarter is expected to be flat compared with a 6 percent increase last year.
 
Interest Expense
 
The company reiterated that it expects full year 2005 gross interest expense to be about $55 million.
 
Depreciation and Amortization
 
The company expects depreciation and amortization expense for fiscal year 2005 to be about $550 million.
 
Capital Expenditures
 
Fiscal year to date capital expenditures were approximately $259 million compared with $147 million last year. The company reiterated that it expects its full-year 2005 capital spending to be about $625 million.
 
Effective Tax Rate
 
The company's tax rate for the second quarter 2005 was 38.7 percent. The effective tax rate is still expected to be 38 percent to 39 percent for fiscal 2005.
 
Real Estate
 
Through July 30, 2005, the company opened 81 store locations and closed 46. Net square footage for the second quarter increased 2 percent compared to the same period last year. For fiscal 2005, the company now expects to open about 190 store locations weighted toward Old Navy, up from its previous guidance of 170 store locations. Furthermore, the company now expects to close about 140 store locations weighted toward Gap North America, up from its previous guidance of 135. Net square footage is now expected to increase 3 percent for fiscal 2005.
The following table represents the number of store location openings and closings, and square footage by brand.
 
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Sabrina Simmons, Senior Vice President, Treasury and Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s second quarter results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern time today. Ms. Simmons will be joined by Paul Pressler, Gap Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168, or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Investors - Financials section of gapinc.com. Replay of this event will be made available on (800) GAP-NEWS for four weeks after this announcement and archived on gapinc.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release and related conference call and webcast contain forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: (i) earnings per share for 2005; (ii) free cash flow for 2005; (iii) operating margins for 2005; (iv) year over year change in inventory per square foot at the end of the third and fourth quarters of 2005; (v) gross interest expense in 2005; (vi) depreciation and amortization expense for 2005; (vii) capital expenditures for 2005; (viii) effective tax rate for 2005; (ix) store openings and closings in 2005 and weightings by brand; (x) real estate square footage for 2005; (xi) creating and delivering long-term value for shareholders; and (xii) business performance strategies for the second-half of 2005.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in gauging fashion trends and changing consumer preferences; the highly competitive nature of the company's business in the U.S. and internationally and its dependence on consumer spending patterns, which are influenced by numerous other factors; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in identifying and negotiating new store locations effectively; the risk that comparable store sales and margins will experience fluctuations; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in implementing its strategic, operating and people initiatives; the risk that adverse changes in the company's credit ratings may have a negative impact on its financing costs and structure in future periods; the risk that trade matters, events causing disruptions in product shipments from China and other foreign countries, or IT systems changes may disrupt the company's supply chain or operations; and the risk that the company will not be successful in defending various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, claims, and audits; any of which could impact net sales, costs and expenses, and/or planned strategies. Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005. Readers should also consult the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2005.
 
Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact net sales and profitability are difficult to predict. These forward-looking statements are based on information as of August 18, 2005 and the company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on 800-GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
 
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
 
RECONCILIATION OF FREE CASH FLOW TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAP INC.'S EXPECTATION OF AT LEAST $1 BILLION IN FREE CASH FLOW FOR FISCAL 2005 TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
 


