FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20050519163556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On May 19, 2005, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the first quarter ended April 30, 2005. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1        Press Release dated May 19, 2005
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported that net earnings for the first quarter, which ended April 30, 2005, declined 7 percent versus prior year to $291 million, or $0.31 per share on a diluted basis, compared with $312 million, or $0.33 per share, for the same period last year.
SAN FRANCISCO  May 19, 2005 
 
First quarter net sales decreased 1 percent to $3.6 billion, compared with $3.7 billion for the same period last year. Comparable store sales decreased 4 percent, compared with a prior year increase of 7 percent.
 
"Overall, our first quarter results were disappointing as we were up against record high earnings from last year," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "Our teams understand our challenges and they are taking the necessary steps to improve. We remain focused on operational discipline and executing our growth strategies."
 
Store Sales Results By Division
 
The following table represents the company's first quarter comparable store sales and net sales by division:
 
 
Headquarter Facilities Needs
 
In the past the company has recorded sub-lease loss reserves for facilities space on which it is obligated to pay rent but does not occupy. The company recently assessed its future office space needs and in mid-May 2005 management decided that it would occupy one of the properties in San Francisco for which such a reserve had been recorded. As a result, the company will reverse the reserve related to the property it will now occupy and will begin expensing rent. The amount of the reserve reversal is $58 million in pre-tax income, and is a second quarter event. The pre-tax impact to fiscal year 2005 earnings will be approximately $51 million in income, which reflects the amount of the reserve reversal, less additional rent expense and related items including interest.
 
Additional Results and 2005 Outlook
 
Earnings
 
The company is revising its earnings per share guidance for 2005 and 2006. The revisions are based solely on the real estate decision, discussed above. The company now expects to report earnings per share of $1.44 to $1.48 for fiscal year 2005. Previous earnings per share guidance was $1.41 to $1.45. The company expects earnings per share for 2006 to be $1.58 to $1.62. This guidance does not reflect the new accounting requirement to expense stock options beginning in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Cash and Debt
 
The company announced that it ended the quarter with $3.7 billion in cash and short-term and long-term investments, of which $1.0 billion were restricted. This represents $3.2 billion more in cash and investments than funded debt. For the first quarter, free cash flow was an inflow of $113 million, compared with an inflow of $130 million last year. The company expects to generate at least $1 billion in free cash flow in fiscal 2005. Please see the reconciliation of free cash flow to the GAAP financial measure in the table at the end of this release.
On April 5, 2005, Moody's Investors Service upgraded the company's credit rating to investment grade with a Baa3 rating.
 
The company has fully completed the conversion of its $1.38 billion convertible bond into about 86 million shares, leaving just $513 million of debt on the balance sheet.
 
Dividends
 
The company declared a dividend during the first quarter, doubling the amount from $0.0222 to $0.045 per share. The company also paid a $0.0222 per share dividend declared in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
Share Repurchases
 
During the first quarter, the company purchased 26 million shares at an average price of $21.53 per share. Since October 2004, the company has repurchased about 74 million shares at an average price of $21.14. At the end of the first quarter, the company's diluted shares outstanding were 932 million.
 
Margins
 
Gross margins declined 2.3 points in the first quarter compared to the prior year, which was entirely driven by lower merchandise margins. Operating margin for the first quarter was 12.8 percent. The company reiterated that operating margins are still expected to be about 13 percent for the full year 2005.
 
Inventory
 
The company reported that inventory per square foot was up 5 percent at the end of the first quarter as compared to last year, primarily driven by the timing associated with the early receipt of merchandise. The company will continue its focus on inventory productivity, and expects inventory per square foot at the end of the second quarter to be down on a percentage basis in the low single digits, compared with a 7 percent decline in the prior year. Inventory per square foot at the end of the third quarter is also expected to be down in the low single digits, compared with a 1 percent increase last year.
 
Interest Expense
 
In part, as a result of the sublease loss reversal, the company now expects full year 2005 gross interest expense to be about $55 million.
 
Capital Expenditures
 
First quarter capital expenditures were approximately $112 million compared with $35 million last year, primarily due to a higher number of new stores and remodels during the quarter. The company expects its full-year 2005 capital spending to be about $625 million.
 
Effective Tax Rate
 
The company's tax rate for the first quarter was 37.7 percent, reflecting favorable tax audit resolutions, primarily on state audits. The effective tax rate is expected to be 38 percent to 39 percent for fiscal 2005.
 
Real Estate
 
Through April 30, 2005, the company opened 41 store locations and closed 25. Net square footage for the first quarter 2005 increased 1 percent compared with the same period last year. For fiscal 2005, the company still expects to open about 170 store locations, weighted toward Old Navy, and close about 135 store locations, weighted toward Gap North America. Net square footage is still expected to increase 2 percent for fiscal 2005.
The following table represents the number of store location openings and closings, and square footage by brand.
 
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Sabrina Simmons, Senior Vice President, Treasury and Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s first quarter results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5:00 p.m. Eastern time today. Ms. Simmons will be joined by Paul Pressler, Gap Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer, Byron Pollitt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Jenny Ming, President of Old Navy, to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168 or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Financials & Media section of . Replay of this event will be made available on (800) GAP-NEWS for four weeks after this announcement and archived on gapinc.com.
gapinc.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release and related conference call and webcast contain forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding: (i) executing growth strategies; (ii) earnings per share for 2005 and 2006; (iii) impact and timing of stock option expensing; (iv) free cash flow for 2005; (v) operating margins for 2005; (vi) year over year change in inventory per square foot at the end of the second and third quarters of 2005; (vii) gross interest expense in 2005; (viii) capital expenditures for 2005; (ix) effective tax rate for 2005; (x) store openings and closings in 2005 and weightings by brand; and (xi) real estate square footage for 2005.
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in gauging fashion trends and changing consumer preferences; the highly competitive nature of the company's business in the U.S. and internationally and its dependence on
consumer spending patterns, which are influenced by numerous other factors; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in identifying and negotiating new store locations effectively; the risk that comparable store sales and margins will experience fluctuations; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in implementing its strategic, operating and people initiatives; the risk that adverse changes in the company's credit ratings may have a negative impact on its financing costs and structure in future periods; the risk that trade matters, events causing disruptions in product shipments from China and other foreign countries, or IT systems changes may disrupt the company's supply chain or operations; and the risk that the company will not be successful in defending various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, claims, and audits; any of which could impact net sales, costs and expenses, and/or planned strategies. Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005.
 
Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact net sales and profitability are difficult to predict. These forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 19, 2005 and the company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on 800-GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
 
RECONCILIATION OF FREE CASH FLOW TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAP INC.'S EXPECTATION OF AT LEAST $1 BILLION IN FREE CASH FLOW FOR FISCAL 2005, 2006, AND 2007 TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 


