FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20050107172253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On January 6, 2005, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") suspended the use of the Nonemployee Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") and any further deferrals or grants of stock options under the Plan.
 
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On January 6, 2005, the Company suspended the use of the Plan and any further deferrals or grants of stock options under the Plan.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and any related transition rules (the "Act") may have an adverse effect on any discounted stock options granted under the Nonemployee Director Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated December 9, 2003 (the "Plan") on or after January 1, 2005; and
 
WHEREAS, on December 1, 2004, the Board of Directors of The Gap, Inc. delegated to each of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, the power and authority, each acting alone, to amend, terminate, and suspend the Plan as such officer deems necessary or appropriate in light of the Act (the "Authority").
 
RESOLVED, that pursuant to the Authority, use of the Plan and any further deferrals or grants of stock options thereunder are hereby suspended.
 
FURTHER RESOLVED, that all deferral elections under the Plan are hereby suspended and all future Compensation (as defined in the Plan) shall be paid to the Participants (as defined in the Plan) in cash beginning with the Compensation due and payable with respect to the fiscal quarter ending January 29, 2005.
 
January 6, 2005
 
The Gap, Inc.
 


