FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20050224164253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 24, 2005, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's preliminary earnings for the fourth quarter and the year ended January 29, 2005. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On February 24, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the Company's preliminary earnings for the fourth quarter and the year ended January 29, 2005, and announcing expected lease-related accounting adjustments. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
On February 24, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing an additional $1.5 billion share repurchase program and announcing cash dividend plans. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today announced that preliminary earnings for the 2004 fourth quarter increased 4 percent to $370 million, or $0.40 per share on a diluted basis. Full year 2004 earnings increased 11 percent to $1.1 billion, or $1.20 per share, compared to $1.09 per share for full year 2003. The company also announced that fourth quarter and full year earnings and earnings per share are subject to adjustments based on the outcome of a pending review by the company of its lease-related accounting.
SAN FRANCISCO  Feb. 24, 2005 
 
"In 2004, we delivered solid earnings performance, while mining growth opportunities within our brands, significantly strengthening our balance sheet, retiring debt and completing a $1 billion share repurchase program," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "Having stabilized our operations and well positioned our brands in the marketplace, we have a strong foundation for 2005. Going forward we will focus on driving growth opportunities across our brand portfolio, strengthening operating performance and enhancing shareholder value through cash distributions."
 
Fourth Quarter Results
 
Net sales for the fourth quarter, which ended Jan. 29, 2005, were flat to last year at $4.9 billion. Comparable store sales decreased 3 percent, compared with an increase of 3 percent during the same period last year.
 
The company reported preliminary net income of $370 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter, compared with net income of $356 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, in the same period last year.
 
Fiscal 2004 Results
 
Net sales of $16.3 billion for the 52 weeks ended Jan. 29, 2005, increased 3 percent, compared with net sales of $15.9 billion for same period ended Jan. 31, 2004. The company's comparable store sales for the year were flat, compared with an increase of 7 percent in the prior year.
 
For the year, the company reported preliminary net income of $1.1 billion, or $1.20 per diluted share, compared with net income of $1.0 billion, or $1.09 per diluted share, last year.
 
The following table represents the company's fourth quarter comparable store sales, fourth quarter net sales, fiscal year 2004 comparable store sales and fiscal year 2004 sales by division.
 
Lease-Related Accounting Adjustments
 
In light of a recent SEC clarification and consultation with its auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, the company has re-evaluated its lease accounting practices. Like many other public companies that are correcting commonly accepted lease accounting practices, the company will change the way it accounts for its leases, including the accounting for rent holidays and tenant allowances.
 
These adjustments will have no impact on cash, revenues and comparable store sales.
 
The company currently believes that these adjustments will reduce net income on a pre-tax basis for fiscal year 2004 and prior fiscal years by an aggregate amount of $170 million to $200 million, the vast majority of which relates to periods prior to fiscal year 2002. The company has not yet reached a final decision as to whether these matters will require a restatement of its previously issued annual and interim financial statements or whether the adjustments will all be reflected in the fiscal year 2004 financial statements, but believes that restatement of prior periods is likely. This estimate is subject to change as the company completes its internal review and the results are reviewed by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
 
In prior periods, and consistent with industry practice, the company had recognized the straight line expense for leases beginning on the commencement date of the lease, which had the effect of excluding the construction period of its stores from the calculation of the period over which it expenses rent. In addition, a portion of tenant allowances were reflected as a reduction to store build out costs instead of being classified as deferred lease credits and were amortized over the asset life instead of the lease term. The accounting for rent expense and tenant allowances will be corrected.
 
Additional Results and 2005 Outlook
 
Earnings
 
The company stated that it expects earnings per share to be $1.41 to $1.45 per share for fiscal year 2005. This estimate does not reflect expenses related to stock option expensing, which are expected to begin in the third quarter. This estimate reflects the proper accounting for leases.
 
Cash and Debt
 
After repurchasing about 48 million shares for $1 billion, the company ended the fourth quarter with $2.2 billion more in cash and short-term investments than debt. Fiscal year 2004 free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchase of property and equipment, was an inflow of $1.2 billion. The company expects at least $1 billion in free cash flow for fiscal 2005. Please see the reconciliation of free cash flow to a GAAP financial measure in the table at the end of this release.
 
During fiscal year 2004, the company retired a total of $871 million in debt, of which $596 million was retired early. Full year earnings reflect $105 million in losses on early retirement of debt due to premiums paid and $36 million in pretax interest savings.
 
Standard and Poor's recently raised the company's credit rating to investment grade, BBB-. Moody's currently has the company's credit rating one notch below investment grade and is reviewing the company for a possible upgrade.
 
The company expects to call its convertible bond in late March 2005.
 
Dividends
 
The company announced in a separate release today that its Board of Directors intends to increase the annual dividend per share from $0.0888 to $0.18 for fiscal year 2005, not including the previously announced $0.0222 per share dividend payable on February 23, 2005. The dividend is expected to be payable quarterly in late April, July, October and January.
Share Repurchase Program
 
In a separate release issued today, the company also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized an additional $1.5 billion for its share repurchase program, effective immediately. The company has completed a $1 billion share repurchase program, repurchasing about 48 million shares in 2004.
 
Margins
 
Disciplined inventory and fleet management helped drive a 150 basis point improvement in gross margin for the year. Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 36.6 percent. Operating margin for the full year 2004, excluding charges related to early retirement of debt, was 12.7 percent. Operating margin for the full year of 2005 is expected to be about 13 percent. This estimate does not reflect expenses related to the expensing of stock options, which are expected to begin in the third quarter. This estimate reflects the proper accounting for leases.
 
Inventory
 
The company reported that inventory per square foot increased 6 percent year-over-year at the end of the fourth quarter. The company expects inventory per square foot at the end of the first quarter of 2005 to be flat, versus down 12 percent last year. Inventory per square foot at the end of the second quarter of 2005 is expected to be a low-single-digit decrease versus a 7 percent decrease for the same period last year.
 
Capital Expenditures and Effective Tax Rate
 
The company expects capital spending to be about $625 million in 2005. Full-year 2004 capital spending was $441 million. The company said that it expects an effective tax rate of 38 to 39 percent for 2005.
 
Real Estate
 
During the fiscal year 2004, the company opened 130 store locations and closed 158. Net square footage for the fourth quarter 2004 was up slightly compared with last year. For fiscal 2005, the company expects to open about 175 store locations, weighted toward Old Navy, and close about 135 store locations, weighted toward Gap brand. Square footage is expected to increase 2 percent for fiscal 2005.
 
The following table represents the number of store location openings and closings, and square footage by brand.
 
 
Reporting
 
The company announced that starting with fiscal 2005, it is changing external reporting to reflect Gap United States and Gap Canada together as Gap North America. This change aligns Gap division to be consistent with how the company reports North American operations at Old Navy and Banana Republic. Starting with fiscal 2005, International reporting will include stores in the United Kingdom, France and Japan. This reporting change will be fully implemented in the company's February 2005 sales release and will also be reflected in the company's Annual Report.
 
Webcast and Conference Call Information
 
Sabrina Simmons, Senior Vice President, Treasury and Investor Relations, will host a summary of Gap Inc.'s fourth quarter and fiscal 2004 results in a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern time today. Ms. Simmons will be joined by Paul Pressler, Gap Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer, and Byron Pollitt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to discuss details on the business.
 
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-0168 or (706) 634-0994 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Conference Calls & Webcasts page in the Financials & Media section of . Replay of this event will be made available on (800) GAP-NEWS for four weeks after this announcement and archived on gapinc.com.
www.gapinc.com
 
February Sales
 
The company will report February sales on March 3, 2005.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release and related conference call and webcast contain forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," plan," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding: (i) driving growth opportunities; (ii) enhancing shareholder value; (iii) revenue growth; (iv) impact of lease accounting adjustments on 2004 and prior periods; (v) earnings per share for 2005; (vi) timing of stock option expensing; (vii) free cash flow for 2005; (viii) calling our convertible bond in March 2005; (ix) dividend amounts and timing in 2005 and over time; (x) operating margin for 2005; (xi) year over year change in inventory per square foot at the end of the first and second quarters of 2005; (xii) capital expenditures for 2005; (xiii) effective tax rate for 2005; (xiv) store openings and closings in 2005 and weightings by brand; (xv) real estate square footage for 2005; (xvi) share repurchases in 2005 and over next 2 years; (xvii) restricted and unrestricted cash balances in future periods; and (xviii) gross interest expense in 2005.
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: the risk that the Company will be unsuccessful in gauging fashion trends and changing consumer preferences; the highly competitive nature of the company's business in the U.S. and internationally and its dependence on consumer spending patterns, which are influenced by numerous other factors; the risk that comparable store sales and margins will experience fluctuations; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in implementing its strategic and operating initiatives; the risk that adverse changes in the Company's credit ratings may have a negative impact on its financing costs and structure in future periods; the risk that trade matters, events causing disruptions in product shipments from China and other foreign countries, or IT systems changes may disrupt the Company's supply chain or operations; and the risk that the Company will not be successful in defending various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, claims, and audits; any of which could impact net sales, costs and expenses, and/or planned strategies; and the risk that any additional information may arise from the Company's due diligence during the close process or other subsequent events that would require the Company to reevaluate its assumptions or make other adjustments. Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004. Readers should also consult the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 20, 2004.
Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact net sales and profitability are difficult to predict. These forward-looking statements are based on information as of February 24, 2005 and the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
Gap Inc. Copyright Information
 
All recordings made on 800-GAP-NEWS have been recorded on behalf of Gap Inc. and consist of copyrighted material. They may not be re-recorded, reproduced, retransmitted or rebroadcast without Gap Inc.'s express written permission. Your participation represents your consent to these terms and conditions, which are governed under California law.
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Gap Inc.
UNAUDITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
Gap Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
 
RECONCILIATION OF FREE CASH FLOW TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAP INC.'S EXPECTATION OF AT LEAST $1 BILLION IN FREE CASH FLOW FOR FISCAL 2005 TO GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today announced its goal to deliver greater shareholder value through increased dividends and cash distribution. In line with this goal, the company's Board of Directors has authorized an additional $1.5 billion for its share repurchase program, effective immediately. In addition, the company's Board of Directors intends to double the annual dividend.
SAN FRANCISCO  Feb. 24, 2005 
 
The share repurchase program, totaling $2.5 billion with today's announcement, underscores the company's continued confidence in the long-term growth prospects of its business. As of January 29, 2005, the company has successfully completed a $1 billion share repurchase program, repurchasing about 48 million shares.
 
The company intends to increase the annual dividend per share from $0.0888 to $0.18 for the fiscal year 2005. This does not include the previously announced $0.0222 per share dividend paid on February 23, 2005. The dividend is expected to be payable quarterly in late April, July, October and January.
 
"We are committed to delivering superior shareholder value through growth in revenue and earnings, and cash distribution," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "I am pleased to report that in 2005 we intend to double our annual dividend. With the new share repurchase program, we have now authorized $2.5 billion in share repurchases."
 
As with the previous share repurchase program, the company may repurchase shares of its common stock on the open market at times and prices considered appropriate by management. Repurchasing may take place through brokers and dealers or in privately negotiated transactions with nonaffiliated stockholders, and may be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Under the additional $1.5 billion share repurchase program, shares may be repurchased over the next 24 months.
 
Over the past two years Gap Inc. has made significant progress in strengthening its balance sheet and improving its credit rating. Since May 2003, the company has reduced debt by more than $1 billion.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding: (i) dividend amounts and timing in 2005 and (ii) executing our share repurchase program.
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: the risk that the Company will be unsuccessful in gauging fashion trends and changing consumer preferences; the highly competitive nature of the Company's business in the U.S. and internationally and its dependence on consumer spending patterns, which are influenced by numerous other factors; the risk that comparable store sales and margins will experience fluctuations; the risk that the Company will be unsuccessful in implementing its strategic and
operating initiatives; the risk that adverse changes in the Company's credit ratings may have a negative impact on its financing costs and structure in future periods; the risk that trade matters, events causing disruptions in product shipments from China and other foreign countries, or IT systems changes may disrupt the Company's supply chain or operations; and the risk that the Company will not be successful in defending various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, claims, and audits; any of which could impact net sales, costs and expenses, and/or planned strategies. Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004. Readers should also consult the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 20, 2004.
 
Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact net sales and profitability are difficult to predict. These forward-looking statements are based on information as of February 24, 2005 and the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 


