FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20050331130532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
On March 30, 2005, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the departure of Anne Gust, Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Compliance Officer. The Company also announced that Lauri Shanahan will assume the role of Chief Compliance Officer. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today announced that Anne Gust will be stepping down as Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Compliance Officer of Gap Inc., effective May 13, 2005.
SAN FRANCISCO  March 30, 2005 
 
The company and Gust mutually agreed that with a strong compliance team and standards in place, the timing was appropriate for her departure.
 
"Anne Gust's leadership, integrity and community spirit have helped shape our company's values," said Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler. "We thank Anne for her tremendous work over the past 14 years and wish her well in her new adventures."
 
"While I'll miss the rewarding experience I've had working for Gap Inc., I felt that the time was right for me to move on to the next phase of my life," said Gust.
 
Effective May 13, 2005, Lauri Shanahan, 42, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and a 13-year veteran of the company, will assume the additional role of Chief Compliance Officer, reporting directly to Gap Inc. President and CEO Paul Pressler.
 
Gust's Chief Administrative responsibilities will be divided among senior leaders at Gap Inc., including Byron Pollitt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, who will oversee real estate.
 
About Gap Inc.
 
Gap Inc. is a leading international specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy brand names. Fiscal 2004 sales were $16.3 billion. Gap Inc. operates about 3,000 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France and Japan. For more information, please visit gapinc.com.
 


