FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20061027125047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 26, 2006, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Diane Neal, president of its Outlet division, will be leaving the Company. Her last day will be November 3, 2006. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) has announced that Diane Neal, 50, president of its Outlet division, will leave the company effective November 3.
SAN FRANCISCO  October 26, 2006
"I want to thank Diane for her many contributions to the Outlet division and to the company," said Paul Pressler, president and CEO of Gap Inc. "With stores throughout the country, the Outlet division continues to be an important way for us to reach customers who love the Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy brands."
The company is conducting a search for a successor to Ms. Neal. In the interim, the Outlet division leadership team will report to Mr. Pressler.
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading international specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy and Forth & Towne brand names. Fiscal 2005 sales were $16.0 billion. Gap Inc. operates about 3,000 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Ireland and Japan. For more information, please visit gapinc.com.
 


