FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20060125130520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 23, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing that Meg Whitman will not seek re-election to Gap Inc.'s Board of Directors when her current term expires in May 2006. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today announced that Meg Whitman, President and CEO of eBay, Inc. has decided not to stand for re-election to the company's board of directors when her current term expires in May, due to her other professional commitments.
SAN FRANCISCO  January 23, 2006 
 
Ms. Whitman, 48, has served on Gap Inc.'s board of directors since 2003.
 
"Meg's strategic and brand building expertise have made her a valuable asset to Gap Inc.'s board," said Bob Fisher, chairman of the board. "We will miss her, and on behalf of the board, I'd like to thank Meg for her many contributions over the past two years."
 
Ms. Whitman noted that she and Mr. Pressler are long-time business colleagues. "It's been a great experience to serve on Gap Inc.'s board with Bob, Paul and so many other qualified directors; however, given eBay's recent acquisition and international expansion plans, I will need to devote additional time and resources to the eBay business," said Ms. Whitman.
 
With Ms. Whitman's departure, Gap Inc.'s board will include 12 directors, eight of whom are independent of the company and its management.
 
More information about Gap Inc.'s Board of Directors and corporate governance practices can be found on the company's Web site at gapinc.com.
 
About Gap Inc.
 
Gap Inc. is a leading international specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy and Forth & Towne brands. Gap Inc. operates about 3,000 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France and Japan. For more information, please visit gapinc.com.
 


