FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20061016165931.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On October 16, 2006, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the appointment of Dawn Robertson as the new President of Old Navy, effective October 30, 2006. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) announced that Dawn Robertson will join the company as president of Old Navy, effective October 30. Ms. Robertson, 51, has nearly 30 years of apparel retail experience, having most recently served as managing director of Myer, Australia's leading department store. During her four years at Myer, Ms. Robertson successfully repositioned the brand and improved its financial performance.
SAN FRANCISCO  October 16, 2006 
"We are very pleased to bring Dawn's deep merchandising and marketing experience to Old Navy," said Gap Inc. president and CEO Paul Pressler. "She has a strong track record invigorating apparel retail companies, and I believe she will build an exciting vision for the future of Old Navy."
Before joining Myer, Ms. Robertson served as president and chief merchandising officer of Federated Direct, a division of Federated Department Stores, overseeing the online and catalog businesses for Macy's and Bloomingdale's. Ms. Robertson was previously executive vice president of the Federated Merchandising Group for men's, kids and home. Prior to that, she held several senior positions across various divisions of The May Company for 13 years and was president and CEO of McRae's, a division of Saks Inc. based in Jackson, Mississippi, operating 46 department stores.
"I am thrilled to have the opportunity to work with the talented Old Navy team," said Ms. Robertson. "I look forward to helping shape the future of such an iconic fashion brand."
Ms. Robertson will be based at the company's San Francisco headquarters and will oversee all aspects of Old Navy's operations. She will report directly to Mr. Pressler. She succeeds Jenny Ming who left the company, as previously announced, on October 15.
 
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading international specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy and Forth & Towne brand names. Fiscal 2005 sales were $16.0 billion. Gap Inc. operates about 3,000 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, France and Japan. For more information, please visit gapinc.com.


