FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20070726163128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On July 26, 2007, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the naming of Glenn Murphy as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, taking over for Robert J. Fisher, the current Chairman who has served as the Company's Interim Chief Executive Officer since January 2007. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Murphy previously served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Shoppers Drug Mart from 2001 to March 2007.
On July 25, 2007, the Company and Mr. Murphy executed an employment agreement (the "Agreement"). The Agreement was approved by the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Committee"), which is composed solely of independent directors, and ratified by the Board of Directors. The Agreement provides for compensation that is significantly performance-based.
The following description of the Agreement is only a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
On July 24, 2007, the Compensation and Management Development Committee approved a form of Performance Share Agreement to be used from time to time by the Company under the Company's 2006 Long-term Incentive Plan. A copy of the Performance Share Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2
 
On July 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company amended and restated the Bylaws of the Company effective July 24, 2007, to reflect two changes: (1) Article III, Section 3(b), was amended to further clarify the notice of special meetings of the Board of Directors by e-mail; and (2) Article III, Section 7, was amended to eliminate the requirement that the Chairman of the Board shall not be an officer or employee of the Company.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1. .
Registered Office
The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
Section 2. .
Other Offices
The Corporation also may have offices at such other places both within and outside the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Section 1. .
Stockholders' Meetings
(a) . Meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such times and places, either within or outside the State of Delaware, as may from time to time be fixed by the Board of Directors and stated in the notices or waivers of notice of such meetings.
Time and Place of Meetings
(b) . The annual meeting of the stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as may be designated by the Board of Directors, for the election of directors and the transaction of such other business properly brought before such annual meeting of the stockholders in accordance with these Bylaws (as they may be amended from time to time, these "Bylaws") and within the powers of the stockholders.
Annual Meeting
(c) . Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation for any purpose or purposes may be called only (i) by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors constituting the whole Board of Directors or (ii) at the request in writing of stockholders owning not less than 10% of the voting power of the Corporation. Such resolution or request in writing shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting. Business transacted at any special meeting of the stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice of such meeting.
Special Meetings
(d) . Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (as it may be amended from time to time, the "Certificate of Incorporation") or these Bylaws, written notice of each meeting of the stockholders shall be
Notice of Meetings
given not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of such meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat, directed to such stockholder's address as it appears upon the books of the Corporation, such notice to specify the place, date, hour and purpose or purposes of such meeting. When a meeting of the stockholders is adjourned to another time and/or place, notice need not be given of such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting of the stockholders at which the adjournment is taken, unless the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days or unless after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for such adjourned meeting, in which event a notice of such adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote thereat. Notice of the time, place and purpose of any meeting of the stockholders may be waived in writing either before or after such meeting and will be waived by any stockholder by such stockholder's attendance thereat in person or by proxy. Any stockholder so waiving notice of such a meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given.
(e) . Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the holders of not less than a majority of the shares entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. If a quorum is present at any meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at such meeting on the subject matter and present thereat in person or by proxy shall be deemed the act of the stockholders. If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting of the stockholders, the presiding officer of such meeting may adjourn such meeting from time to time to another place, date or time, without notice other than announcement at such meeting, until a quorum is present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting of the stockholders as originally noticed. The foregoing notwithstanding, if a notice of any adjourned special meeting of the stockholders is sent to all stockholders entitled to vote thereat which states that such adjourned special meeting will be held with those present in person or by proxy constituting a quorum, then, except as otherwise required by law, those present at such adjourned special meeting of the stockholders shall constitute a quorum and all matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast at such special meeting.
Quorum
Section 2. .
Determination of Stockholders Entitled to Notice and to Vote
To determine the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting of the stockholders or to vote thereat, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a record date as provided in Article VII, Section 1 of these Bylaws, or if no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, a record date shall be determined as provided by law.
Section 3. .
Voting
(a) Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, each stockholder present in person or by proxy at a meeting of the stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each full share of stock registered in the name of such stockholder at the time fixed by the Board of Directors or by law as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting.
 
(b) Every stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of the stockholders may do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by a written proxy executed by the person or such stockholder's duly authorized agent whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission, facsimile signature or otherwise.
(c) Voting may be by voice or by ballot as the presiding officer of the meeting of the stockholders shall determine. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by such stockholder's proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.
(d) In advance of any meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors shall appoint one or more persons as inspectors of election ("Inspectors") to act at such meeting and make a written report thereof. If Inspectors are not so appointed, or if an appointed Inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act at a meeting of the stockholders, the presiding officer of any such meeting may, and on the request of any stockholder or such stockholder's proxy shall, appoint Inspectors at such meeting. Each Inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of Inspector, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of Inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of such Inspector's ability. Such Inspectors shall take charge of the ballots at such meeting. Also, such Inspectors shall (A) ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each; (B) determine the shares represented at such meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots; (C) count all votes and ballots; (D) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the Inspectors; and (E) certify their determination of the number of shares represented at such meeting, and their count of all votes and ballots. The Inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the Inspectors in the performance of the duties of the Inspectors. An Inspector need not be a stockholder of the Corporation and any officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation may be an Inspector on any question other than a vote for or against such person's election to any position with the Corporation or on any other questions in which such officer, employee, or agent may be directly interested. If there are three Inspectors, the determination, report or certificate of two such Inspectors shall be effective as if unanimously made by all Inspectors.
(e) The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxies or votes, nor any revocation thereof or changes thereto, shall be accepted by the Inspectors after the closing of the polls unless the Delaware Court of Chancery upon application by a stockholder shall determine otherwise.
Section 4. .
List of Stockholders
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make available, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of and the number of shares registered in the name of each such stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to such meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to such meeting, at the principal place of business of the corporation. The list also shall be produced and kept throughout the time and at the place of the meeting of the stockholders and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
 
Section 5. .
Action by Consent of Stockholders
(a) Except as otherwise restricted by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, upon the setting of a record date in accordance with Section 5(b), any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice to the stockholders and without a vote, if a consent in writing setting forth the action so taken shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Prompt notice of any corporate action taken without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing.
(b) In order for the Corporation to determine the stockholders entitled to consent to any corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within ten (10) days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within ten (10) days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of stockholders meetings are recorded, to the attention of the Secretary of the Corporation. Delivery shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Section 6. .
Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees and Stockholder Business
(a) At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be: (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. In addition to any other applicable requirements (including, without
 
limitation, that any business brought before a meeting must be a proper matter for stockholder action), for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, the stockholder must have been a holder of record of the Corporation at the time such notice is delivered, and the stockholder, or his or her representative who is qualified under law to present the business on his or her behalf, must attend the meeting to present the business. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation no later than the close of business on the forty-fifth (45th) day and no earlier than the close of business on the seventy-fifth (75th) day prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than thirty (30) days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received no earlier than the close of business on the one hundred fifth (105th) day prior to the date of the annual meeting and no later than the close of business on the later of (A) the seventy-fifth (75th) day prior to such annual meeting date or, (B) in the event public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is first made by the Corporation fewer than eighty-five (85) days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. A stockholder's notice shall be made to the Secretary and shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (1) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (2) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (3) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder, (4) any material interest of the stockholder in such business, and (5) any other information that is required to be provided by the stockholder pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), in his or her capacity as a proponent of a stockholder proposal. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (a). The presiding officer of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (a), and, if he or she should so determine, such presiding officer shall so declare at the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
(b) In addition to any other applicable requirements, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (b) shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by any stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this paragraph (b). Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made only after timely notice (as set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 6. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (i) as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder intends to nominate for election or
 
re-election as a director: (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (B) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (C) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (D) a description of all relationships, arrangements, and understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the stockholder, and (E) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the 1934 Act (including without limitation such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (ii) as to such stockholder giving notice, the information required to be provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 6 of this Article II. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall not be required to solicit proxies for the election of any person the stockholder intends to nominate at the meeting. At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by a stockholder for election as a director shall furnish to the Secretary of the Corporation that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (b). The presiding officer of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures provided by this paragraph (b), and if he or she should so determine, such presiding officer shall so declare at the meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
(c) For purposes of this Section 6 of this Article II, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act.
Section 1. .
General Powers
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 2. .
Election of Directors
(a) . Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, the authorized number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, but shall not be less than three (3). The exact number of directors shall be determined from time to time, either by a resolution or Bylaw provision duly adopted by the Board of Directors. Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, each of the directors of the Corporation shall be elected at the annual meeting of the stockholders and each director so elected shall hold office until such director's successor shall be elected and shall qualify (subject, however, to such director's prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office).
Number of Directors and Term of Office
 
(b) . Except as otherwise required by these Bylaws, any vacancy in the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the authorized number of directors shall be filled only by vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors constituting the whole Board of Directors, provided that a quorum is present, and any other vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Stockholders shall have no right to fill, or take any action to fill, any vacancy in the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with this Section 2(b) shall hold office until such director's successor shall be elected and shall qualify (subject, however, to such director's prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office).
Vacancies
(c) . Any director may resign from the Board of Directors at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Secretary of the Corporation. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or, if the time when such resignation shall become effective shall not be so specified, then such resignation shall take effect immediately upon its receipt by the Secretary; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
(d) Except as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any director of the Corporation may be removed from office with or without cause, but only by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Removal.
Section 3. .
Meetings of the Board of Directors
(a) . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors and committees thereof shall be held without call or notice at such times and places as the Board of Directors shall from time to time determine.
Regular Meetings
(b) . Special meetings of the Board of Directors and committees thereof may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, by the Chief Executive Officer, by the President, or by the Board of Directors, or in the case of committees, by the Chair thereof. Notice of the time and place of special meetings of the Board of Directors and committees thereof shall be given by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, or by any other officer authorized by the Board of Directors. Such notice shall be given to each director personally, by email, or by mail, messenger, telephone, facsimile transmission, overnight courier, or telegraph at such director's business or residence address. Notice by mail shall be deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, not later than the third day prior to the date fixed for such special meeting. Notice by email, telephone, facsimile transmission or telegraph shall be sent, and notice given personally, by messenger or by overnight courier shall be delivered, at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time set for such special meeting. Notice of a special meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof need not contain a statement of the purpose of such special meeting.
Special Meetings
 
(c) . A majority of directors present at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof, whether or not constituting a quorum, may adjourn any meeting from time to time until a quorum is present or otherwise. Notice of the time and place of holding any adjourned meeting shall not be required if the time and place are fixed at the meeting adjourned.
Adjourned Meetings
(d) . Meetings of the Board of Directors and committees thereof, both regular and special, may be held at any place within or outside the state of Delaware which has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or if there is no notice, designated by the Board of Directors. In the absence of any such designation, meetings of the Board of Directors and committees thereof shall be held at the Corporation's principal executive offices.
Place of Meetings
(e) . Members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may participate in any meeting of the Board of Directors or committee through the use of conference telephone, videoconference or similar communications equipment, so long as all members participating in such meeting can hear one another, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation by Telephone or Videoconference
(f) . At all meetings of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof, a majority of the authorized number of directors constituting the whole Board of Directors or serving on such committee, as applicable, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any such meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors or such committee, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. A meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof at which a quorum initially is present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors so long as any action is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for such meeting.
Quorum
(g) . The transactions of any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof, however called and noticed or wherever held, shall be as valid as if taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not present signs a written waiver of notice, or a consent to hold such meeting, or an approval of the minutes thereof. All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
Waiver of Notice
Section 4. .
Action without Meeting
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors at any meeting thereof or at any meeting of a committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or such committee thereof consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors or such committee thereof.
 
Section 5. .
Compensation of Directors
Unless otherwise restricted by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Section 6. .
Committees of the Board
(a) . The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, designate one or more committees of the Board of Directors, each committee to consist of one or more directors. Each such committee, to the extent permitted by law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these Bylaws, shall have and may exercise such powers of the Board of Directors in the management and affairs of the Corporation as may be prescribed by the resolutions creating such committee. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. The Board of Directors shall have the power, at any time for any such reason, to change the members of any such committee, to fill vacancies, and to discontinue any such committee.
Committees
(b) . Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required.
Minutes of Meetings
(c) . No committee shall have the power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the Board of Directors as provided in Section 151(a) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, fix the designations and any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the Corporation, or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the Corporation or fix the number of shares of any series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease of the shares of any series), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending any provision of these Bylaws; nor, unless the resolutions establishing such committee or the Certificate of Incorporation expressly so provide, shall any committee have the power or authority to declare a dividend, authorize the issuance of stock, adopt a certificate of ownership and merger, or fill vacancies in the Board of Directors.
Limits on Authority of Committees
 
Section 7. .
Chairman of the Board
The Chairman of the Board, who shall be a member of the Board of Directors, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and, subject to Article IV, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders. The Chairman of the Board shall exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to the Chairman by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at its next regular meeting following the annual meeting of the stockholders and shall serve in such capacity until the next annual election of the Chairman of the Board and until his or her successor is elected or until his or her death, resignation or removal. The Chairman of the Board may be removed from this position (but not as a director) at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors. If a director has not been elected as Chairman of the Board, or if the Chairman of the Board is not present at a meeting of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors shall elect a member of the Board of Directors to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors for such meeting.
Section 1. .
Officers
(a) . The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary and a Chief Financial Officer. The Corporation may also have, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, one or more Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as the Board of Directors may deem appropriate. The same person may hold any two or more offices, except those of President and Secretary.
Number
(b) . The officers shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at its next regular meeting following the annual meeting of the stockholders and each officer shall hold office until the next annual election of officers and until such officer's successor is elected or until such officer's death, resignation or removal. Any officer may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in any office may be filled by the Board of Directors.
Election and Term of Office
(c) . The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officers or agents, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
Delegation of Authority
(d) . The salary, bonus, and long-term incentive compensation of all executive officers of the Corporation (as defined in Rule 3b-7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) shall be fixed by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof from time to time.
Salaries
 
Section 2. .
Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and officers of the Corporation. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer shall, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board or at his or her request, preside at all meetings of the stockholders and shall exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to the Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Directors.
Section 3. .
President
The President shall, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer or at their request, preside at all meetings of the stockholders, and shall exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to the President by the Board of Directors.
Section 4. .
Chief Financial Officer
The Chief Financial Officer, who may, but need not, be the Treasurer, shall keep and maintain adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the Corporation, and shall see that all moneys and other valuables of the Corporation are deposited in the name and to the credit of the Corporation with such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Chief Financial Officer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as directed by the Board of Directors, shall render to the Chairman of the Board and the directors, whenever they request it, an account of all transactions in such officer's official capacity and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
Section 5. .
Vice Presidents
The Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them, respectively, by the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer or President.
Section 6. .
Secretary and Assistant Secretaries
The Secretary shall record or cause to be recorded, in books provided for the purpose, minutes of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and all committees of the Board of Directors; see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws as required by law; in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and President or at their request, preside at all meetings of the stockholders; be custodian of all corporate records (other than financial) and of the seal of the Corporation, and have authority to affix the seal to all documents requiring it and attest to the same; give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors; and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to the Secretary by the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer or President. At the request of the Secretary, or in the Secretary's absence or disability, any Assistant Secretary shall perform any of the duties of the Secretary and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the Secretary.
 
Section 7. .
Treasurer and Assistant Treasurers
The Treasurer shall perform all other duties commonly incident to the Treasurer's office and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Financial Officer shall designate from time to time. At the request of the Treasurer, or in the Treasurer's absence or disability, any Assistant Treasurer may perform any of the duties of the Treasurer and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the Treasurer. Except where by law the signature of the Treasurer is required, each of the Assistant Treasurers shall possess the same power as the Treasurer to sign all certificates, contracts, obligations and other instruments of the Corporation.
Section 1. .
Indemnification
(a) . The Corporation shall to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that he or she is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another affiliated corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, service with respect to employee benefit plans) against all costs, charges, expenses (including attorneys' fees), liabilities and losses, judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and excise taxes or penalties assessed with respect to any employee benefit or welfare plan reasonably incurred or suffered by him or her or on his or her behalf in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, that the person had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
Actions, Suits or Proceedings Other Than By or in the Right of the Corporation
(b) . The Corporation shall indemnify to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he or she is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another affiliated corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, service with respect to employee benefit plans), against all costs,
Actions or Suits by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
charges, expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, amounts paid in settlement and excise taxes or penalties assessed with respect to any employee benefit or welfare plan reasonably incurred or suffered by him or her or on his or her behalf in connection with such action or suit and any appeal therefrom, if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, except that no indemnification shall be made under this Section 1(b) in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation, unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of Delaware or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of such liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such costs, charges and expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
(c) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article V, to the extent that a director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Sections 1(a) or 1(b) of this Article V or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he or she shall be indemnified against all costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her or on his or her behalf in connection therewith.
Indemnification for Costs, Charges and Expenses of Successful Party
(d) . Any indemnification under Sections 1(a) or 1(b) of this Article V (unless ordered by a court) shall be paid by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because the indemnified person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Sections 1(a) and 1(b) of this Article V. Such determination shall be made (1) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (2) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel (who may be the regular counsel of the Corporation) in a written opinion, or (3) by the stockholders.
Determination of Right to Indemnification
(e) . Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a director or officer referred to in Sections 1(a) or 1(b) of this Article V in defending a civil or criminal action, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation, in advance of a determination of right to indemnification pursuant to Section 1(d) of this Article V or the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding, upon the written request of such director or officer; provided, however, that the payment of such expenses in advance of the determination of right to indemnification or the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Section 1 of Article V; and provided further that the payment of such expenses shall not be made if a court of competent jurisdiction enters a final nonappealable judgement that such payment would violate Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Board of Directors may, in such case, authorize the Corporation's counsel to represent such person, in any action, suit or proceeding, whether or not the Corporation is a party to such action, suit or proceeding. Such costs, charges and expenses incurred by other employees and agents may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Board of Directors deems appropriate.
Advancement of Costs, Charges and Expenses
 
(f) . Any indemnification under Sections 1(a), 1(b) or 1(c) of this Article V or advance of expenses under Section 1(e) of this Article V shall be made promptly, and in any event within sixty (60) days, upon the written request of the indemnified person. The right to indemnification or advances as granted by this Section 1 of this Article V shall be enforceable by the indemnified person in any court of competent jurisdiction, if the Corporation denies such request, in whole or in part, or if no disposition thereof is made within such sixty (60) day period. Such person's costs and expenses actually and reasonably incurred in connection with successfully establishing his or her right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such action shall also be indemnified by the Corporation. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for the advance of costs, charges and expenses under Section 1 of this Article V where the required undertaking, if any, has been received by the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct set forth in Section 1(a) or 1(b) of this Article V, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Sections 1(a) or 1(b) of this Article V nor the fact that there has been an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Procedure for Indemnification
(g) . The indemnification and advancement of costs, charges and expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Section 1 of this Article V shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a person seeking indemnification or advancement of costs, charges and expenses may be entitled under any law (common or statutory), agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office as set forth in Sections 1(a) and 1(b) of this Article V or otherwise, and, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, shall continue as to a person who has ceased to hold such office and shall inure to the benefit of the estate, heirs, executors and administrators of such person. All rights to indemnification under this Section 1 of this Article V shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director and officer of the Corporation who serves or served in such capacity at any time while this Section 1 of this Article V is in effect. Any repeal or modification of this Section 1 of this Article V or any repeal or modification of Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law or any other law affecting the rights of directors and officers of the Corporation to indemnification shall not adversely affect any rights of any such director or officer to indemnification or the obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Section 1, Article V, with respect to any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
Other Rights; Continuation of Right to Indemnification
 
(h) . The Board of Directors in its discretion shall have power on behalf of the Corporation, subject to applicable law, to indemnify any person made a party to any action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that such person, or his or her testator or intestate, is or was an employee or other agent of the Corporation and to advance costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by such person in defending any such action, suit or proceeding.
Indemnification of Employees and Other Agents
Section 2. .
Insurance, Trust Fund, Etc
The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was or has agreed to become a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person, or arising out of such person's capacity as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. The Corporation may create a trust fund, grant a security interest and/or use other means (including, without limitation, letters of credit, surety bonds and/or other similar arrangements), as well as enter into contracts providing indemnification to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws and including as a part thereof provisions with respect to any or all of the foregoing to ensure the payment of such amounts as may become necessary to effect indemnification as provided in these Bylaws or elsewhere.
Section 3. .
Limitations
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article V to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification provided by these Bylaws, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any person or advance any expenses in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person or service by such person as a witness adverse to the Corporation, unless such proceeding (or part thereof) or such service was authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 4. .
Savings Clause
If this Article V or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each director and officer of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article V that shall not have been invalidated and to the full extent permitted by applicable law.
 
Section 1. .
Certificates for Shares
Unless otherwise provided by a resolution of the Board of Directors, the shares of the Corporation shall be represented by a certificate. The certificates of stock of the Corporation shall be numbered and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation as they are issued. They shall exhibit the holder's name and number of shares and shall be signed by or in the name of the Corporation by (a) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President and (b) the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary. Any or all of the signatures on a certificate may be by facsimile. In case any officer of the Corporation, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate, shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, such certificate may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issuance.
Section 2. .
Transfer
Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books.
Section 3. .
Record Owner
The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof, and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, save as expressly provided by the laws of the State of Delaware or federal laws.
Section 4. .
Lost Certificates
The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or certificates to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
 
Section 1. .
Record Date
(a) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of the stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days prior to the date of such meeting nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action. If not fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date shall be determined as provided by the laws of the State of Delaware.
(b) A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall apply to any adjournments of the meeting, unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(c) Holders of stock on the record date are entitled to notice and to vote or to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights or to exercise the rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the Corporation after the record date, except as otherwise provided by agreement or by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Section 2. .
Execution of Instruments
The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine the method and designate the signatory officer or officers, or other persons, to execute any corporate instrument or document or to sign the corporate name without limitation, except where otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. Such designation may be general or confined to specific instances.
Section 3. .
Voting of Securities Owned by the Corporation
All stock and other securities of other corporations held by the Corporation shall be voted, and all proxies with respect thereto shall be executed, by the person so authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of such authorization, by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, or the Secretary.
Section 4. .
Amendments
In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, make, repeal, alter, amend and rescind from time to time any or all of the Bylaws of the Corporation, including, without limitation, Bylaw amendments increasing or reducing the authorized number of directors constituting the whole Board of Directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding capital stock of the Corporation having general voting power, voting together as a single class, shall be required for the Corporation's stockholders to adopt, make, repeal, alter, amend or rescind the Bylaws of the Corporation (notwithstanding any other provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition and subject to any vote of the holders of any class or series of stock of the Corporation required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation).
 

Exhibit 10.1
Dear Glenn,
This letter and your employment will be effective on your Start Date (defined below) and sets forth our offer to you to join The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") as Chief Executive Officer. Your "Start Date" shall be July 30, 2007 if you obtain admission to the United States by the United States Customs and Border Protection Agency in a classification authorizing work for the Company in the United States ("Admission") on or before July 30, 2007, or if not, then your Start Date shall be the business day after the date you obtain Admission, provided that this letter and your employment will only be effective if the Company receives your authorization to work in the United States on or prior to your Start Date. You agree that (i) if you personally receive the Form I-797 Approval Notice issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services classifying you as an O-1 nonimmigrant ("Form I-797 Approval Notice") by 9:00 a.m Eastern Time on July 29, 2007, you will seek Admission on July 29, 2007, and (ii) if you personally receive the Form I-797 Approval Notice after 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time on July 29, 2007, you will seek Admission within 24 hours of receipt of the Form I-797 Approval Notice.
The Company agrees to employ you on an "at-will" basis in the position of Chief Executive Officer. You will report directly to the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") and be given such duties, authorities, and responsibilities that are consistent with your being the Company's most senior executive officer as determined by the Board. During your employment, you will devote your full business efforts and time to the Company. You may engage in civic and charitable activities in your individual capacity, and, subject to the consent of the Board, may serve on the board of directors of another company so long as such activities do not interfere with the performance of your responsibilities to the Company. Your primary work place will be at the Company's corporate headquarters in San Francisco, California.
1. Duties and Scope of Employment.
The Governance, Nominating and Social Responsibility Committee of the Board will recommend to the Board that you be made a Director of the Board without prejudice to the shareholders' ability to remove or not re-elect you. The Governance, Nominating and Social Responsibility Committee of the Board will also recommend to the Board that you be made Chairman of the Board without prejudice to the Board's ability to remove you as Chairman.
2. Board Service.
3. Salary and Incentive Compensation.
Your annual salary will be U.S. $1,500,000, payable every two weeks in accordance with the Company's normal payroll practices. The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board ("the Committee") will review your salary at least annually.
(a) Salary.
You will receive a bonus of U.S. $1,000,000 within 30 days of your Start Date. In the event you voluntarily terminate your employment without Good
(b) Initial Bonus.
Reason (as defined in Section 13(b)) or your employment is terminated for Cause prior to the second anniversary of your Start Date, you will be required to repay a pro rata portion (based on the number of full calendar months remaining in the initial 24 months of employment divided by 24 months) of this bonus (net of any associated income or employment taxes not recovered in a later period) within sixty (60) days of your Termination Date (as defined in Section 9). For all purposes under this letter, the term "Cause" shall mean any of the following committed by you: (i) willful failure to follow the reasonable and lawful directions of the Board; (ii) conviction of a felony (or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere by you to a felony); (iii) acts of fraud, material dishonesty or misappropriation committed by you against the Company and intended to result in personal enrichment; (iv) willful misconduct by you in the performance of your material duties required by this letter which is likely to materially damage the Company's financial position or reputation; (v) a material breach of this letter; (vi) your material breach of the Company's policies and procedures; or (vii) any breach by you of the Company's Code of Business Conduct. To terminate your employment for "Cause", the Board must determine in good faith that Cause has occurred, the Company must give you written notice detailing the specific clause of the definition of Cause on which termination is based and the Company must deliver to you a copy of a resolution duly adopted by a majority of the entire Board (excluding you) at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose that finds in the good faith opinion of the Board, Cause has occurred and states the basis of that belief. With respect to Sections 3(b)(i), (v), (vi), and (vii), the Board shall give you 10 business days notice of its good faith determination that Cause has occurred and shall give you 10 business days following the end of such notice period during which to cure the applicable failure or breach to the good faith satisfaction of the entire Board (excluding you) at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose.
You will be eligible for an annual bonus based on achievement of the Company's financial objectives, subject to the terms and conditions of the Executive Management Incentive Compensation Award Plan or any successor plan. Your annual target bonus will be 150% of your base salary. Depending on results, your actual bonus, if any, may be higher or lower. Your maximum annual bonus will be 300% of your base salary. Any bonus payments will be prorated based on changes in base salary or incentive target that may occur during the fiscal year. The Committee has the right to modify the program at any time. Committee discretion can be used to modify the final award amount.
(c) Annual Bonus.
For fiscal year 2007 only, in lieu of the annual bonus described in this Section 3(c), you will receive a bonus equal to 150% of your base salary, prorated based on the Start Date for the time you are employed by the Company during fiscal 2007, provided you are employed by the Company on the date bonuses are paid to other executives of the Company.
Starting in fiscal year 2008, while you are employed under the terms of this letter, you will recommend performance measures and payout levels with respect to the Company's annual bonus program for yourself and other senior executives, but such performance measures and payout levels will be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable bonus program.
Your offer includes long-term incentive awards, which give you the opportunity to share in the Company's success over time.
(d) Long-Term Incentive Awards.
The Committee approved a stock option grant to you effective on your Start Date to purchase 2,000,000 shares of Company common stock, subject to the provisions of the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the award agreement thereunder. The option price is determined by the fair market value of the stock on the Start Date. These options will become vested and exercisable as shown in the schedule below, provided you are employed by the Company on the vesting date. These options must be exercised within ten years from the Start Date or within three months, or in the case of termination due to death or Retirement (as defined in the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan), within 12 months, of your Termination Date (as defined in Section 9), whichever is earlier, or you will lose your right to do so.
(i) Fair Market Value Stock Options.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee approved a stock option grant to you effective on your Start Date to purchase 2,000,000 shares of the Company common stock, subject to the provisions of the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the award agreement thereunder. The option price will be 115% of the fair market value of the stock on the Start Date. These options will become vested and exercisable as shown in the schedule below, provided you are employed by the Company on the vesting date. These options must be exercised within ten years from the Start Date or within three months, or in the case of termination due to death or Retirement (as defined in the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan), within 12 months, of your Termination Date (as defined in Section 9), whichever is earlier, or you will lose your right to do so.
(ii) Premium-Priced Stock Options.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee approved a performance share award for you with a target payout opportunity equal to 1,000,000 shares, effective on your Start Date, subject to the provisions of the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the award agreement thereunder (the "Initial Performance Share Award"). The Initial Performance Share Award will be paid in Company common stock upon vesting. The actual payout (ranging from zero to 2,000,000 shares) will be determined based upon cumulative reported net earnings (subject to adjustment for those items specified in the resolutions of the Committee approving the Initial Performance Share Award) for fiscal years 2008, 2009, 2010, and 2011, as follows:
(iii) Performance Share Award.
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to Section 11(iv), the award will become vested and paid out in Company common stock as shown in the schedule below, provided that the award is earned as set forth in this Section 3(d)(iii) and provided you are employed with the Company on the vesting date.
 
 
 
 
Except as set forth in this letter or as may otherwise be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, you will not be eligible to receive any other long-term incentive awards (whether stock or cash-based) until 2011. Beginning in 2011, during your employment hereunder, you will be eligible to participate in the Company's long-term incentive compensation arrangements as in effect from time to time subject to the sole discretion of the Committee.
During your employment with the Company hereunder, you will be eligible to participate in the Company's employee benefit plans on terms and conditions generally applicable to other senior executives of the Company. Under the current policy (which is subject to change from time to time), you will be eligible for 30 days of Paid Time Off ("PTO") on an annual basis in addition to seven company-paid holidays. PTO accrues each pay period up to a cap of 35 days based on regular hours paid, and can be used for vacation, illness or charitable, non-profit or other personal business.
4. Benefits.
The Company shall indemnify you to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law and the Company's bylaws with respect to your employment hereunder and you shall also be covered under a directors and officers liability insurance policy(ies) paid for by the Company during your employment hereunder. The Company shall maintain directors and officers liability insurance for your benefit on terms and conditions generally applicable to the Company's other senior executives. The Company's obligations under this Section 5 are only for acts and omissions by you while you are employed by the Company under the terms of this letter but, with respect to such acts and omissions, shall survive termination of your employment and also termination or expiration of this letter.
5. Indemnification.
During your employment hereunder, you will be authorized to incur necessary and reasonable travel, entertainment and other business expenses in connection with your duties hereunder, and the Company shall promptly reimburse you for such expenses upon presentation of appropriate supporting documentation, all in accordance with the Company's applicable policies.
6. Expenses.
The Company will reimburse you for your reasonable relocation expenses related to your move from the Toronto, Ontario (Canada) metropolitan area to the San Francisco Bay Area (including temporary living expenses in the San Francisco Bay Area for up to 12 months until your family moves to California from Toronto). You will receive U.S. income tax restoration with respect to the relocation expenses in this Section 7, in the manner set forth in the Company's relocation policy. You will also receive Canadian income tax restoration with respect to the relocation expenses in this Section 7, in a manner substantially consistent with the Company's relocation policy as it applies to U.S. income tax restoration. In the event you voluntarily terminate your employment without Good Reason or your employment is terminated for Cause (as defined in Section 3(b)) prior to the first anniversary of your Start Date, you will be required to repay all of the reimbursements described in this Section 7 within thirty (30) days of the Termination Date (as defined in Section 9). In the event you voluntarily terminate your employment without Good Reason or your employment is terminated for Cause (as defined in Section 3(b)) on or after the first anniversary of your Start Date but prior to the second anniversary of your Start Date, you will be required to repay a pro-rata portion of the reimbursements described in this Section 7 within thirty (30) days of the Termination Date (as defined in Section 9) based on the number of calendar days remaining in the two year period commencing on the Start Date. For purposes of the preceding sentence, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Company's relocation policy, "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) of this letter.
7. Relocation.
The Company will pay for all fees and expenses associated with your obtaining a visa and authorization to work for the Company in the United States.
8. Visa Fees.
 
Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you will be entitled to: (a) all unpaid salary and unpaid PTO accrued through the Termination Date and (b) any unreimbursed business expenses. You may also be eligible for other post-employment payments and benefits as provided in this letter or pursuant to other agreements or plans with the Company. For all purposes under this letter, "Termination Date" means the effective date of your termination of employment with the Company.
9. Termination for Any Reason.
Except in a termination related to a Change-in-Control (as defined in Section 13(c)), in the event that your employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company for reasons other than for Cause (as defined in Section 3(b)), death or Disability (as defined in Section 13(a)), or you voluntarily terminate your employment for Good Reason (as defined in Section 13(b) and subject to the notice and cure provisions described therein) or Material Diminution of Responsibilities (as defined in Section 13(d) and subject to the notice and cure provisions described therein), the Company will provide you the following in exchange for your release of any claims in a form reasonably acceptable to the Company:
10. Termination Not Related to a Change-in-Control.
Subject to the last paragraph of this Section 10, your then current salary, at regular pay cycle intervals, for 24 months from the Termination Date, as defined in Section 9 (the "Severance Period").
(a)
Subject to the last paragraph of this Section 10, a pro-rated amount of your annual bonus that you would otherwise have received had you continued to be employed through the applicable payment date for the annual bonus performance period in which your termination occurs (without any discretionary downward individual adjustments), payable, if and when paid to other executives and based on actual performance results for the annual bonus performance period in question. Such bonus will be pro-rated based on the number of days you were employed by the Company during the applicable annual bonus performance period.
(b)
Subject to the last paragraph of this Section 10, your annual bonus that you would otherwise have received had you continued to be employed through the applicable payment dates for the two annual bonus performance periods following the annual bonus performance period in which your termination occurs (without any discretionary downward individual adjustments), up to an annual maximum payment equal to 150% of your base salary at the rate in effect on the Termination Date (as defined in Section 9), payable, if and when paid to other executives and based on actual performance results for the annual bonus performance period(s) in question.
(c)
The accelerated vesting of 25% of the unvested portion (determined as of the Termination Date, as defined in Section 9) of both the Fair Market Value Stock Options and Premium-Priced Stock Options granted on the Start Date.
(d)
During the period in which you are receiving payments under Section 10(a), to the extent you continue your medical coverage under COBRA, reimbursement for a portion of your COBRA premiums equal to the Company-paid portion of the cost of such coverage for active employees under the plan as of the Termination Date (based on the level of coverage (e.g., individual or family coverage) that you have in effect under COBRA), provided that you substantiate to the reasonable satisfaction of the Company the payment of such premiums.
(e)
If at any time during the period commencing on the Termination Date (as defined in Section 9) and ending on the latest date that any amount is payable to you under this Section 10, you accept other employment or professional relationship with a competitor of the Company (defined as either (i) another company primarily engaged in the apparel design or apparel retail business or (ii) any retailer with apparel sales in excess of $500 million annually (a "Competitor")), or if you breach your remaining obligations to the Company (e.g., your duty to protect confidential information, agreement not to solicit Company employees), then the Company's obligations under Sections 10(a), 10(b), and
 
10(c) will cease such that you will not be entitled to any further payments thereunder. In addition, cash payments under Sections 10(a), 10(b), and 10(c) will be reduced by any cash compensation you earn (whether paid, deferred, base, incentive, or otherwise) other than the Excepted Fees (defined in the next sentence) during the Severance Period (as defined in Section 10(a)) and beyond with respect to the bonuses in Section 10(c) from other employment or any other professional relationship with a non-Competitor and you shall inform the Company in advance and keep the Company reasonably informed on a continuing basis of the terms of such employment or other professional relationship for this purpose. The Excepted Fees are fees up to $500,000 per 12-month period commencing on the Termination Date earned for providing director and/or consulting services to a non-Competitor while you are unemployed.
In the event that one of the following occurs:
11. Termination Related to a Change-in-Control.
Your employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company for reasons other than for Cause (as defined in Section 3(b)), death, or Disability (as defined in Section 13(a)) either in connection with a Change-in-Control (as defined in Section 13(c)) or within 12 months after such Change-in-Control;
(a)
OR
You voluntarily terminate your employment for Good Reason (as defined in Section 13(b) and subject to the notice and cure provisions described therein) within 12 months after such Change-in-Control;
(b)
OR
You voluntarily terminate your employment during the 30-day period commencing on the six-month anniversary of such Change-in-Control due to a Material Diminution of Responsibilities (as defined in Section 13(d) and subject to the notice and cure provisions described therein) that occurred on or after such Change-in-Control.
(c)
then the Company will provide you the following in exchange for your release of any claims in a form reasonably acceptable to the Company:
A lump sum equivalent of 24 months of your then current salary.
(i)
A pro-rated amount of your annual bonus that you would otherwise have received had you continued to be employed through the applicable payment date for the annual bonus performance period in which your termination occurs (without any discretionary downward individual adjustments), payable, if and when paid to other executives and based on actual performance results for the annual bonus performance period in question. Such bonus will be pro-rated based on the number of days you were employed by the Company during the applicable annual bonus performance period.
(ii)
Your annual bonus that you would otherwise have received had you continued to be employed through the applicable payment dates for the two annual bonus performance periods following the annual bonus performance period in which your termination occurs (without any discretionary downward individual adjustments), up to an annual maximum payment equal to 150% of your base salary at the rate in effect on the Termination Date (as defined in Section 9), payable, if and when paid to other executives and based on actual performance results for the annual bonus performance period(s) in question.
(iii)
If your Termination Date (as defined in Section 9) occurs in Fiscal Year 2010 or 2011, in full satisfaction of the Initial Performance Share Award, you shall be entitled to receive such pro-rated number of shares of Company common stock (which shall be fully vested) subject to the Company's achievement of the cumulative reported net earnings targets (as
(iv)
 
adjusted for those items specified in the resolutions of the Committee approving the Initial Performance Share Award) for the completed fiscal years prior to the beginning of the fiscal year of your termination (i.e., Fiscal Years 2008 and 2009 for a Termination Date in Fiscal Year 2010, and Fiscal Years 2008, 2009, and 2010 for a Termination Date in Fiscal Year 2011), as set forth under the "Acceleration of Performance Shares in Change-in-Control" heading contained in the Committee's resolutions approving the Initial Performance Share Award.
If your Termination Date (as defined in Section 9) occurs after the end of fiscal year 2011, full vesting of any portion of the Initial Performance Share Award that has been earned based on performance (as set forth in Section 3(d)(iii) of this letter) but has not otherwise vested.
(v)
Full vesting of your Fair Market Value Stock Options and Premium-Priced Stock Options granted on the Start Date that otherwise are not vested as of the Termination Date (as defined in Section 9).
(vi)
To the extent you continue your medical coverage under COBRA, reimbursement for a portion of your COBRA premiums equal to the Company-paid portion of the cost of such coverage for active employees under the plan as of the Termination Date (based on the level of coverage (e.g., individual or family coverage) that you have in effect under COBRA), provided that you substantiate to the reasonable satisfaction of the Company the payment of such premiums.
(vii)
For purposes of Section 11(a), your employment shall be deemed to be involuntarily terminated by the Company for reasons other than for Cause (as defined in Section 3(b)) in connection with such Change-in-Control if such termination occurs prior to such Change-in-Control and (i) is expressly required by the merger agreement or other instrument definitively governing such Change-in-Control or (ii) is made at the express written request of the other party (or parties) to the transaction constituting such Change-in-Control.
Without limiting Section 18, in the event you are terminated for Cause (as defined in Section 3(b)), you will be eligible for none of the transition or severance benefits described in Sections 10 and 11. In addition, you will forfeit all unvested Company equity-based awards.
12. Termination for Cause.
13. Certain Definitions Relating to Termination.
"Disability" means a permanent and total disability within the meaning of section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), provided that the Committee in its discretion may determine whether a permanent and total disability exists in accordance with uniform and non-discriminatory standards adopted by the Committee from time to time. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, under no circumstances shall you be considered to have a Disability for purposes of this Section 13(a) if you are not eligible for long-term disability coverage under a Company-sponsored long-term disability plan that provides substantially comparable salary continuation benefits as those provided under the Company's long-term disability plan in effect on the Start Date.
(a) Disability Definition.
"Good Reason" shall mean any of the following that occur without your consent: (1) relocation of your primary work location by more than fifty (50) miles from San Francisco, (2) any reduction in your base salary or target annual bonus
(b) Good Reason Definition.
 
percentage opportunity, (3) your ceasing to be Chief Executive Officer of the Company, (4) the Company's material breach of this letter or (5) the failure by the Company, following your written request to the Company's General Counsel, to procure and deliver to you reasonably satisfactory evidence of the assumption of this Agreement by any successor as required by Section 21. Before "Good Reason" has been deemed to have occurred, you must give the Company written notice detailing why you believe a Good Reason event has occurred and such notice must be provided to the Company within thirty days of your actual knowledge of the initial occurrence of such alleged Good Reason event. The Company shall then have thirty days after its receipt of written notice to cure the item cited in the written notice so that "Good Reason" will have not formally occurred with respect to the event in question.
"Change-in-Control" means the consummation of one or more of the following events: (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of shares representing more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock (as defined below in this Section 13(c)) of the Company; provided, however, that a "Change of Control" shall not be deemed to occur solely as the result of the acquisition by Donald G. Fisher, Doris F. Fisher, John J. Fisher, William Fisher and/or Robert R. Fisher (collectively, the "Fishers") and the Permitted Designees (as defined below in this Section 13(c)) of shares representing in the aggregate more than 50% but less than 75% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Company; (ii) the Company consolidates with or merges into any other corporation, any other corporation merges into the Company, or the Company effects a share exchange or the Company conveys, sells, transfers or leases all or substantially all (more than 75%) of its assets (other than to one or more of its wholly-owned subsidiaries), and, in the case of any such consolidation, merger or share exchange transaction, the outstanding Common Stock of the Company is reclassified into or exchanged for any other property or securities, unless the shareholders of the Company immediately before such transaction own, directly or indirectly immediately following such transaction, at least a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the entity resulting from such transaction in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Stock of the Company immediately before such transaction, or unless such transaction is effected solely to change the jurisdiction of incorporation of the Company and results in a reclassification, conversion or exchange of outstanding shares of Common Stock solely into shares of Common Stock; (iii) the Company or the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, sells, assigns, conveys, transfers or leases all or substantially all (more than 75%) of the assets of the Company or of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole over a 12-month period, as applicable (other than to one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company); or (iv) any time the Continuing Directors (as defined below in this Section 13(c)) do not constitute a majority of the Board (or, if applicable, a successor entity to the Company).
(c) Change-in-Control Definition.
For purposes of the above definition of Change-in-Control, "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board who (A) was a member of such Board on the Start Date (the "Original Directors") or (B) was appointed, nominated for election, or elected to such Board with the approval of a majority of the Original Directors or Continuing Directors who were members of such Board at the time of such nomination or election.
For purposes of the above definition of Change-in-Control, "Permitted Designees" means (i) a spouse or lineal descendent by blood or adoption of any of the Fishers; (ii) trusts solely for the benefit of any of the Fishers, one or more charitable foundations, institutions or entities or any of the individuals referred to in clause (i); (iii) in the event of the death of a Fisher, his or her estate, heirs, executor, administrator, committee or other personal representative; or (iv) any Person (as defined below in this Section 13(c)) so long as any of the Fishers or any of the individuals referred to in clause (i) are the sole beneficial owners of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such Person and constitute a majority of the board of directors of such Person, in the case of a corporation, or of the individuals exercising similar functions, in the case of an entity other than a corporation.
 
For purposes of the above definition of Change-in-Control, "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, estate, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
For purposes of the above definition of Change-in-Control, "Voting Stock" means all classes of capital stock (shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of the applicable entity, but excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity) of the applicable Person then outstanding and normally entitled to vote in the election of directors.
"Material Diminution of Responsibilities" means the occurrence of any of the following without your consent (i) you cease to report directly to the Board of the ultimate parent entity, (ii) one or more of your direct reports is required by the Board to report directly and solely to the Board instead of to you, (iii) you are required by the Board to report to another officer, (iv) you are no longer the CEO of the ultimate parent entity, (v) you remain the CEO of the ultimate parent entity but you are not the sole highest ranking officer of such entity in terms of responsibility and authority, or (vi) following a Change-in-Control as a result of which the Company ceases to be publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq or otherwise, you suffer a material adverse change in your authority as compared to your authority immediately prior to such Change-in-Control. In the event the Company ceases to be publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq or otherwise, the term "ultimate parent entity" used in this Section 13(d) shall not include any direct or indirect shareholders of the Company that are not publicly traded (other than parent entities that are both (i) operating companies whose primary purpose is not investment related and (ii) not directly or indirectly owned by a company whose primary purpose is investment related). A Material Diminution of Responsibilities shall not be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of the Company's sale of one or more of its businesses or by an action taken in good faith to comply with applicable law, generally accepted accounting principles, regulatory guidance, or other similar guidance. Before "Material Diminution of Responsibilities" has been deemed to have occurred, you must give the Company written notice detailing why you believe a Material Diminution of Responsibilities event has occurred and such notice must be provided to the Company within thirty days of your actual knowledge of the initial occurrence of such alleged Material Diminution of Responsibilities event. The Company shall then have thirty days after its receipt of written notice to cure the item cited in the written notice so that "Material Diminution of Responsibilities" will have not formally occurred with respect to the event in question.
(d) Material Diminution of Responsibilities Definition.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this letter to the contrary, if you are deemed by the Company at the time of your "separation from service" with the Company to be a "specified employee," each within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code ("409A"), any compensation or benefits to which you become entitled under this letter (or any agreement or plan referenced in this letter) in connection with such separation shall not be made or commence until the date which is six (6) months after your "separation from service" (or, if earlier, your death). Such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to avoid adverse tax treatment to you, including (without limitation) the additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which you would otherwise be liable under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral. Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, any compensation or benefits which would have otherwise been paid during that period (whether in a single sum or in installments) in the absence of this Section shall be paid to you or your beneficiary in one lump sum.
14. Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.
In the event that it is determined that any payment or distribution of any type to you or for your benefit made by the Company, by any of its affiliates, by any person who acquires ownership or effective control or ownership of a substantial portion of the
15. Section 280G.
 
Company's assets (within the meaning of Code Section 280G and the regulations thereunder) or by any affiliate of such person, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this letter or otherwise, would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Code Section 4999 or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest or penalties, are collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then such payments or distributions or benefits shall be payable either: (i) in full or (ii) as to such lesser amount which would result in no portion of such payments or distributions or benefits being subject to the Excise Tax. You shall determine whether to receive the amounts provided in (i) or (ii) and if you select to reduce payments pursuant to (ii), then you shall also determine which payments or benefits will be reduced and in what magnitude. You and the Company shall furnish such documentation and documents as may be necessary for the Company's independent external accountants to perform the requisite Code Section 280G computations and analysis.
You represent and warrant that you do not have any agreements, obligations, relationships or commitments to any other person or entity that conflict or would conflict with accepting this offer or fully performing your duties and obligations of this position, including, without limitation any ongoing obligations you may have to your former employer. You further represent that the credentials and information you provided to Company (or its agents) related to your qualifications and ability to perform this position are true and correct.
16. No Conflicts with this Offer/Representations.
You agree to abide by all applicable Company policies including, but not limited to, policies contained in the Code of Business Conduct and the Securities Law Compliance Manual. You also agree to execute and abide by the attached Confidentiality, Non-Solicitation & Non-Disparagement Agreement before, during and after your employment with Company.
17. Abide by Company Policies.
You hereby agree and understand that you will be subject to the Company's recoupment policy in effect from time to time. Under the current policy applicable to the Company's senior executives, subject to the discretion and approval of the Board, the Company will, to the extent permitted by governing law, in all appropriate cases as determined by the Board, require reimbursement and/or cancellation of any bonus or other incentive compensation, including stock-based compensation, awarded to an executive officer or other member of the Company's executive leadership team where all of the following factors are present: (a) the award was predicated upon the achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a restatement, (b) in the Board's view, the executive engaged in fraud or intentional misconduct that was a substantial contributing cause to the need for the restatement, and (c) a lower award would have been made to the executive based upon the restated financial results. In each such instance, the Company will seek to recover the individual executive's entire annual bonus or award for the relevant period, plus a reasonable rate of interest.
18. Recoupment Policy.
Under Company policy, you are required to comply with certain stock ownership requirements as determined by the Board. Under current policy, you are required to own 150,000 shares of Company common stock within five years of the Start Date.
19. Stock Ownership.
The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this letter shall be governed by the laws of the State of California (except their provisions governing the choice of law). It is specifically understood and agreed that any breach of the attached Confidentiality, Non-Solicitation and Non-Disparagement Agreement and certain provisions of this letter (including, without limitation, Sections 1, 10, and 17) is likely to result in irreparable injury to the Company and that, in addition to any other remedy it may have, the Company shall, to the extent enforceable, be entitled to seek to enforce the specific performance of any obligation by you and to obtain both temporary and permanent injunctive relief without the necessity of proving actual damages. The parties hereby submit themselves to the Superior Court of California in and for the County of San Francisco for the purpose of enforcing this letter.
20. Choice of Law/Remedies for Breach.
 
This letter shall be binding upon any successor (whether direct or indirect and whether by purchase, lease, merger, consolidation, liquidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets, and the Company will require any such successor to expressly assume and agree in writing to perform this letter in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. For all purposes under this letter, the term "Company" shall include any successor to the Company's business and/or assets which becomes bound by this letter by contract, operation of law or otherwise. This letter will inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by you and your personal or legal representatives, executors, estate, trustee, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees, as applicable. If you die and any amounts become payable under this letter, the Company will pay those amounts to your estate or named beneficiary, as applicable, except as otherwise may be required by applicable law.
21. Successors.
Notices and all other communications contemplated by this letter shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered, mailed by overnight courier, or sent by confirmed facsimile. In your case, mailed notices shall be addressed to you at the home address that you most recently communicated to the Company in writing. In the case of the Company, mailed notices shall be addressed to its corporate headquarters, and all notices shall be directed to the attention of its Chief Legal and Administrative Officer or General Counsel.
22. Notice.
No provision of this letter shall be modified, waived or discharged unless the modification, waiver or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by you and by the Chief Legal and Administrative Officer or General Counsel of the Company. No waiver by either party of any breach of, or of compliance with, any condition or provision of this letter by the other party shall be considered a waiver of any other condition or provision or of the same condition or provision at another time.
23. Modifications and Waivers.
Except for those agreements or plans specifically referenced herein, this letter contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any other agreements, representations or understandings (whether oral or written and whether express or implied) with respect to the subject matter hereof. In the event of any conflict in terms between this letter and any other agreement not specifically referenced herein executed by and between you and the Company, the terms of this letter shall prevail and govern. For the avoidance of doubt, in the case of a conflict between this letter and the terms of the Fair Market Value Stock Options, Premium-Priced Stock Options, and the Initial Performance Share Award, as set forth in the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (and the related award agreements), except as set forth in Section 10(d), 11(iv), 11(v), and 11(vi) of this letter, the terms set forth in the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (and the related award agreements) shall control. The attached Confidentiality, Non-Solicitation & Non-Disparagement Agreement shall be considered part of this letter for all purposes.
24. Whole Agreement.
The Company shall reimburse you for all reasonable legal fees and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees for your immigration counsel) and reasonable fees of your tax advisors incurred in connection with the negotiation, preparation and execution of this letter not to exceed $50,000 in the aggregate.
25. Legal Fees.
All payments made under this letter shall be subject to reduction to reflect taxes or other charges required to be withheld by law.
26. Withholding Taxes.
 
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision or provisions of this letter shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof, which shall remain in full force and effect.
27. Severability.
The Company may assign its rights under this letter to any entity that expressly in writing assumes the Company's obligations hereunder in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform such obligations in connection with any sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to such entity.
28. Assignment.
In the event of your termination of your employment, you will be under no obligation to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable, or benefits provided, to you under this letter.
29. No Mitigation.
Except as specifically set forth in this letter and without limiting the Committee's sole discretion to provide otherwise, nothing in this letter will prevent or limit your future participation in any benefit or compensation plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company and for which you may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as you may have under any other contract or agreement entered into after the Start Date. Amounts that are vested benefits or that you are entitled to receive under any benefit or compensation plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract or agreement entered into after the date hereof with, the Company at or subsequent to the date your employment with the Company terminates will be payable in accordance with such benefit or compensation plan, policy, practice, program, contract or agreement, except as explicitly modified by this letter.
30. Non-Exclusivity of Rights.
Following termination of your employment for any reason, you shall reasonably cooperate with, assist and provide information to the Company and its respective affiliates concerning any matters about which you have knowledge because of your prior employment with the Company or their respective affiliates or your prior involvement as an officer or director of the Company and/or any of its affiliates. Your agreement to cooperate with, assist and/or provide information to the Company and their respective affiliates includes, if necessary, assistance by you in any litigation matters. Such assistance and cooperation will be scheduled at times and locations personally convenient for you and not inconsistent with the responsibilities you may have with subsequent employment or rendering of services, except where such scheduling is unreasonable or impracticable (giving the needs of both parties equal weight) under all of the circumstances. The Company or their respective affiliates shall pay, or reimburse you, for reasonable, out-of-pocket costs incurred by you in providing such assistance (e.g., reasonable travel costs and reasonable legal fees). In the event that you shall be required to provide services pursuant to this Section in excess of ten (10) hours in any month, you shall be compensated at a rate of $5,000 per 8-hour day (pro-rated for any partial days of service); provided, however, that you shall not be compensated for any service that you otherwise are required to perform pursuant to applicable law.
31. Cooperation.
 
This letter may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
32. Counterparts.
Please review and sign this letter, which incorporates the Confidentiality, Non-Solicitation & Non-Disparagement Agreement attached, and return them to Chief Legal and Administrative Officer. We must receive your signed letter before the Start Date.
Glenn, it is our pleasure to extend this offer. We look forward to working with you.
 
 
I, Glenn Murphy, in consideration of the offer of employment with The Gap, Inc. (the "Company"), acknowledge that the services I will perform for the Company are unique and extraordinary and that I will be in a relationship of confidence and trust with the Company. As a result, during my employment with the Company, I will acquire "Confidential Information" that is (1) owned or controlled by the Company, (2) in the possession of the Company and belonging to third parties, and/or (3) conceived, originated, discovered or developed in whole or in part by me. Confidential Information includes trade secrets and other confidential or proprietary business, technical, strategic, marketing, legal, personnel or financial information (including, without limitation, financial forecasts or reports and pro-forma financial models), whether or not my work product, in written, graphic, oral or other tangible or intangible forms, including, but not limited to: board or executive presentations; strategic plans; unannounced product information, specifications, samples or designs; sales and pricing practices; computer programs; drawings, photographs, diagrams, models; vendor or customer names; the products a vendor supplies to the Company; customer research results; employee lists or organizational charts; company e-mail or telephone directories; individual employee compensation and benefits information; business or marketing plans; studies, analyses, projections and reports; communication with attorneys; and software systems and processes. Any information that is not readily available to the public shall be considered to be a trade secret and confidential and proprietary.
I agree that I will keep the Confidential Information in strictest confidence and trust. I will not, without the prior written consent of the Company's General Counsel, directly or indirectly use or disclose to any person or entity any Confidential Information, during or after my employment, except as is necessary in the ordinary course of performing my duties while employed by the Company, or if required to be disclosed by order of a court of competent jurisdiction, administrative agency or governmental body, or by subpoena, summons or other legal process, provided that prior to such disclosure, the Company is given reasonable advance notice of such order and an opportunity to object to such disclosure.
I agree that in the event of my employment termination for any reason, I will immediately deliver to the Company all company property, including all documents, materials or property of any description, or any reproduction of such materials, containing or pertaining to any Confidential Information.
In order to protect the Confidential Information, I agree that so long as I am employed by the Company, and for a period of two years thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of me, any other person or entity, solicit, call upon, recruit, or attempt to solicit any of the Company's employees or in any way encourage any Company employee to leave their employment with the Company. For this purpose, advertisements for employment that do not directly or indirectly identify me placed in newspapers of general circulation will not be considered solicitation. I further agree that I will not directly or indirectly, on behalf of me, any other person or entity, interfere or attempt to interfere with the Company's relationship with any person who at any time was an employee, consultant, customer or vendor or otherwise has or had a business relationship with the Company.
I agree now, and after my employment with the Company terminates, not to directly or indirectly, disparage the Company in any way or to make negative, derogatory or untrue statements about the Company, its business activities, or any of its directors, managers, officers, employees, affiliates, agents or representatives to any person or entity.
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED TO THIS 25
TH
DAY OF JULY, 2007.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
        
Award No.
            
The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") hereby grants to (the "Employee"), an award (the "Award") of Performance Shares, which represent the right to receive shares of the Company's common stock, $0.05 par value (the "Shares") subject to the fulfillment of the performance and vesting conditions and other conditions set forth in the attached Appendix A. This Award is granted pursuant to The Gap, Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and is subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in this Performance Share Agreement (the "Agreement"), including the terms and conditions contained in the attached Appendix A. The date of this Agreement is . Subject to the provisions of Appendix A and of the Plan, the principal features of this Award are as follows:
                    
            
 
As provided in the Plan and in this Agreement, this Award may terminate before the scheduled vest date(s) of the Performance Shares. For example, if Employee's employment ends before the date this Award vests, this Award will terminate at the same time as such termination. Important additional information on vesting and forfeiture of the Performance Shares covered by this Award including those due to changes in employment is contained in paragraphs 3 through 5 of Appendix A.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Employee have executed this Agreement, in duplicate, to be effective as of the date first above written.
 
I understand that this Award is 1) subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement (including the attached Appendix A) and of the Plan, 2) not considered salary, nor is it a promise for future grants of Performance Shares, 3) not a term or condition of my employment with the Company, and 4) made at the sole discretion of the Company.
 
1. . The Company hereby grants to the Employee as a separate incentive in connection with his or her employment and not in lieu of any salary or other compensation for his or her services, an Award with respect to the number of Performance Shares set forth on page 1 of this Agreement, subject to all the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan. Employee understands and agrees that this Award does not guarantee any future Performance Share grants and that grants are made at the sole discretion of the Company.
Grant of Performance Shares
2. . On any date, a Performance Share has a value equal to the Fair Market Value of one Share. Unless and until a Performance Share has vested in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth on the first page of this Agreement, the Employee will have no right to payment of a Share with respect to the Performance Share. Prior to actual payment of any Shares pursuant to vested Performance Shares, each Performance Share represents an unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company.
Company's Obligation to Pay
3. . Subject to paragraphs 4 and 5, the Performance Shares subject to this Agreement will vest as to the number of Performance Shares, and on the dates shown, on the first page of this Agreement (each a "Vesting Date"), but in each case, only if the Employee has been continuously employed by the Company or by one of its Affiliates from the date of this Award until the applicable Vesting Date of the Performance Shares. If Employee is not employed on such date(s), the Award shall terminate, as set forth in paragraph 5. Upon each Vesting Date, one Share shall be issued for each Performance Share that vests on such Vesting Date, subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan and this Agreement. No fractional Shares shall be issued under this Agreement.
Vesting of Performance Shares and Issuance of Shares
4. . In the event of the Employee's death or Retirement (as defined in the Plan), the remaining Performance Shares shall become fully vested on the date of death or Retirement, as applicable, provided that the Performance Goals have been achieved as of the date of death or Retirement, as applicable.
Death or Retirement
5. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement, the balance of the Performance Shares that have not vested pursuant to paragraph 3 or 4 will be forfeited and cancelled automatically at the time of the Employee's Termination of Service.
Termination of Service.
6. . On each Vesting Date, the Employee agrees that the Company will withhold a portion of the Shares scheduled to be issued pursuant to vested Performance Shares that have an aggregate market value sufficient to pay the federal, state and local income, employment and any other applicable taxes required to be withheld by the Company or its designated Affiliate. The Company will only withhold whole Shares and therefore the Employee also authorizes deduction without notice from salary or other amounts payable to the Employee of cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy the Company's remaining tax withholding obligation. Notwithstanding the previous two sentences, the Employee, if the Company in its sole discretion so agrees, may elect to furnish to the Company written notice, no more than 30 days and no less than 5 days in advance of a scheduled Vesting Date, of his or her intent to satisfy the tax withholding requirement by remitting the full amount of the tax withholding to the Company on the scheduled Vesting Date. In the event that Employee provides such written notice and fails to satisfy the tax withholding requirement by the Vesting date, the Company shall satisfy the tax withholding requirement pursuant to the first two sentences of this section.
Withholding Taxes
7. . Any distribution or delivery to be made to the Employee under this Agreement will, if the Employee is then deceased, be made to the Employee's designated beneficiary, or if no such beneficiary survives the Employee, the person or persons entitled to such distribution or delivery under the Employee's will or, if the Employee should fail to make testamentary disposition of such property, the executor of his or her estate. In order to be effective, a beneficiary designation must be made by the Employee in a form and manner acceptable to the Company. Any transferee must furnish the Company with (a) written notice of his or her status as transferee, and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Company to establish the validity of the transfer and compliance with any laws or regulations pertaining to said transfer.
Beneficiary Designation
8. . The Shares deliverable to the Employee on the Vesting Date(s) may be either previously authorized but unissued Shares or issued Shares that have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares hereunder so long as the Company reasonably anticipates that such issuance will violate Federal securities law or other applicable law; provided however, that in such event the Company shall issue such Shares at the earliest possible date at which the Company reasonably anticipates that the issuance of the shares will not cause such violation. For purposes of the previous sentence, any issuance of Shares that would cause inclusion in gross income or the application of any penalty provision or other provision of the Internal Revenue Code shall not be treated as a violation of applicable law.
Conditions to Issuance of Shares
9. . Neither the Employee nor any person claiming under or through the Employee will have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Performance Share unless and until Shares have been issued in accordance with paragraph 3, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Employee. Except as provided in paragraph 10, after such issuance, recordation, and delivery, the Employee will have all the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to voting such Shares and receipt of dividends and distributions on such Shares.
Rights as Stockholder
10. . In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, separation, liquidation, stock dividend, split-up, Share combination, or other change in the corporate structure of the Company affecting the Shares, the Committee shall adjust the Performance Shares subject to the Award, in such manner as the Committee (in its sole discretion) shall determine to be appropriate.
Changes in Stock
11. . This Agreement is subject to all the terms and provisions of the Plan. In the event of a conflict between one or more provisions of this Agreement and one or more provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan will govern. Terms used in this Agreement that are not defined in this Agreement will have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
Plan Governs
12. . The Committee will have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether or not any portion of the Performance Share has vested). All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee in good faith will be final and binding upon the Employee, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Committee will be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement.
Committee Authority
13. . The Employee understands and agrees that this Agreement does not impact in any way the right of the Company, or the Affiliate employing the Employee, as the case may be, to terminate or change the terms of the employment of the Employee at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without good cause. The Employee understands and agrees that his or her employment is "at-will" and that either the Company or the Employee may terminate the Employee's employment at any time and for any reason. The Employee also understands and agrees that his or her "at-will" status can only be changed by an express written contract signed by an authorized officer of the Company and the Employee.
No Modification of At-Will Status
14. . Except as otherwise herein provided, the Performance Shares herein granted and the rights and privileges conferred hereby will not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise) and will not be subject to sale under execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of such Performance Share, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions hereof, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, such Performance Share and the rights and privileges conferred hereby will immediately become null and void.
Non-Transferability of Award
15. . Subject to the limitation on the transferability of the Performance Share contained herein, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the Employee and the Company.
Binding Agreement
16. . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement will be addressed to the Company, in care of its Legal Department, at The Gap, Inc., Two Folsom, San Francisco, California 94105, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to the Employee will be addressed to the Employee at the address set forth on the records of the Company. Any such notice will be deemed to have been duly given if and when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, in a United States post office.
Addresses for Notices
17. . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Captions
18. . In the event that any provision in this Agreement will be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Agreement Severable
19. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties on the subjects covered. The Employee expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. Modifications to this Agreement or the Plan can be made only in an express written agreement executed by a duly authorized officer of the Company.
Modifications to the Agreement
20. . By accepting this Award, the Employee expressly warrants that he or she has received a right to an equity based award under the Plan, and has received, read, and understood a description of the Plan. The Employee understands that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be modified, suspended, or terminated by the Company at any time.
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan

Exhibit 99.1
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) announced today that its board of directors has appointed Glenn Murphy to serve as chairman and chief executive officer of the company. Mr. Murphy, 45, has more than 20 years of retail experience across three distinct retail sectors, and has demonstrated the ability to consistently drive both top and bottom line results.
SAN FRANCISCO  July 26, 2007 
Most recently, Mr. Murphy served for six years as chairman and CEO of Shoppers Drug Mart, the largest drug store chain in Canada. He led the company through an unprecedented period of growth and shareholder returns during which revenues increased 22 consecutive quarters year-over-year and its earnings per share doubled.
"I'm thrilled with this opportunity to lead Gap Inc. given the company's iconic stature and heritage of innovation and creativity," said Mr. Murphy. "Alongside some of the most talented people in the apparel industry, we'll work to reestablish each brand's leadership position and set the company along a path of sustained earnings performance."
Underscoring his commitment and belief in the long-term potential of the company, Mr. Murphy has stated his intention to purchase 150,000 shares of Gap Inc. common stock in the next few weeks. He is expected to start with the company in the next week pending receipt of his U.S. work authorization.
Mr. Murphy succeeds Robert J. Fisher, the current chairman of the board of directors who has served as interim CEO since January of this year. Mr. Fisher will continue to serve on the board.
"Glenn is known for being a decisive leader with great retail instincts who understands his customers," said Mr. Fisher. "He has revitalized major retail brands by offering new products and significantly improving the store experience. He's well qualified to return Gap Inc. to the level of sustained performance we all expect."
During his more than 20 years of experience in retail, Mr. Murphy successfully reinvigorated retail brands in the areas of food, health and beauty, and books. Most recently, at Shoppers Drug Mart, he differentiated the brand with new products and better service, and grew the company's market capitalization from about CAD $3 billion to over CAD $10 billion following its public offering. He left the company in March of this year, after guiding the transition to his successor, to pursue other international opportunities.
Prior to this success, Mr. Murphy held several positions at Loblaw Companies Ltd., the leading retail and wholesale food company in Canada. He drove substantial improvements at the company in the face of competition from big box retailers and led the integration of a significant acquisition into Loblaw's portfolio. He also served as president and CEO of Chapters, a major book retailer in Canada with separate retail, online and distribution businesses.
 
A committee of Gap Inc.'s board of directors oversaw the search for a new CEO. The search committee was led by independent Gap Inc. director Adrian Bellamy, chairman of The Body Shop International plc and Reckitt Benckiser plc. The committee also included Donald G. Fisher, Gap Inc.'s founder and chairman emeritus; Domenico De Sole, former president and chief executive officer, Gucci Group NV; and Bob L. Martin, the board's lead independent director and a former Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. executive.
"The search committee undertook a rigorous process and when we met Glenn the entire board unanimously agreed that we'd found the right leader for our company," said Mr. Bellamy. "His proven retail skills and demonstrated financial results complement the strong brand leaders we have running our core businesses. We are confident he will prove to be a very successful leader of our management team in the years ahead."
"On behalf of the board, I also want to thank Bob Fisher for his tireless dedication and leadership during his six-month tenure as interim CEO," said Mr. Bellamy. "Under Bob's direction, Gap Inc. has made important progress on the long-term changes needed to improve the business."
Gap Inc. will disclose the details of Mr. Murphy's compensation package in its Form 8-K filing today. A significant portion of his compensation will require sustained improvements in the company's performance. The primary cash components of Mr. Murphy's compensation, pursuant to his employment agreement dated July 25, 2007, include: an annual salary of $1.5 million; a sign-on bonus of $1.0 million; a pro-rated target bonus for 2007; and annual performance-based bonuses targeted at 150 percent of annual salary. The primary equity components of his compensation include four million stock options, half of which will carry a premium price; and a target award of one million performance shares that is dependent on the company's improved earnings over time. The company intends that these will be the only equity grants for Mr. Murphy over the next three years.
The company estimates that Mr. Murphy's fiscal 2008 compensation at target performance, as calculated for proxy statement purposes, will be about $12 million.
A biography and photograph of Mr. Murphy are available at
http://www.gapinc.com/wps/portal/gapinc/media
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading international specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, and Piperlime brand names. Fiscal 2006 sales were $15.9 billion. Gap Inc. operates more than 3,100 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Ireland and Japan. In addition, Gap Inc. is expanding its international presence with franchise agreements for Gap and Banana Republic in Asia and the Middle East. For more information, please visit gapinc.com.
 
 


