FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20070122215419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On January 22, 2007, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Paul Pressler is stepping down from his position as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and has resigned from the Board of Directors of the Company, both effective January 22, 2007, and that Robert Fisher will serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer commencing January 22, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Pursuant to Mr. Pressler's Employment Agreement dated September 25, 2002 (the "Agreement"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and was disclosed at the time of Mr. Pressler's hire, Mr. Pressler is eligible for severance benefits subject to certain conditions as described in more detail below and in the Agreement:
 
 
 
In total, and subject to reduction if Mr. Pressler accepts other employment or compensation during the 24-month period, Mr. Pressler is eligible for up to approximately $14 million associated with his severance with the Company, assuming a Company stock price of $20 per share. He is also eligible to receive nominal health benefits.
. Under the terms of the Agreement, Mr. Pressler is eligible to remain a non-executive employee of the Company for up to 24 months after termination as Chief Executive Officer and receive the following during the 24-month "Income Continuation Period" beginning January 22, 2007:
Details of Severance
 
 
 
In accordance with the Agreement, and as more fully described in the Agreement, if Mr. Pressler accepts other employment during the Income Continuation Period with a competitor (defined as another company primarily engaged in the apparel design or apparel retail business or any retailer with apparel sales in excess of $500 million annually), Mr. Pressler ceases to be a non-executive employee and forfeits all unaccrued pay and benefits (salary, bonus, and health insurance). If Mr. Pressler accepts other employment with a for-profit non-competitor during the period, Mr. Pressler ceases to be a non-executive employee and salary payments are reduced by the amount of any new cash compensation, while all other payments (bonus and health insurance) cease. If Mr. Pressler accepts any other compensation for services during the Income Continuation Period (e.g., services provided to a charitable organization, or as a director or consultant), Mr. Pressler continues to receive all benefits under the Agreement, except that salary and bonus payments are reduced by the amount of such cash compensation.
Under the Agreement, Mr. Pressler also agrees not to solicit certain employees of the Company for the period in which he is a non-executive employee and for one year thereafter.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
SAN FRANCISCO, January 22, 2007  The board of directors of Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) and Paul Pressler announced today that they have mutually agreed that Mr. Pressler will step down from his position as president and chief executive officer of the company, as well as resign his seat on the company's board, effective immediately. Robert J. Fisher, the company's current non-executive chairman of the board of directors, will also serve as president and chief executive officer on an interim basis, effective immediately.
Robert J. Fisher, chairman of Gap Inc.'s board of directors said, "We want to thank Paul for the hard work and dedication that he has shown Gap Inc. over the past four years. Under his leadership, the company has meaningfully improved its operations, strengthened its balance sheet, greatly enhanced its on-line presence across the brand portfolio and improved its standing as a global corporate citizen. We appreciate all of his efforts and wish Paul every success in the future."
"I have enjoyed the opportunity to lead this iconic company over the past four years. It has been a pleasure to work with the management team and such talented people throughout the organization," said Mr. Pressler, "Gap Inc. is a company with tremendous potential and I wish all the employees much success in the years ahead."
The board will begin a search for a new chief executive officer. A search committee has been formed by the board and will be led by independent Gap Inc. director Adrian D. Bellamy, chairman of The Body Shop International plc. Additional directors serving on the committee include Donald G. Fisher, Gap Inc.'s founder and Chairman Emeritus, Domenico De Sole, former president and chief executive officer, Gucci Group NV and Bob L. Martin, the company's lead independent director and former president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart International. The search committee's preference is to focus their efforts on recruiting a chief executive officer who has deep retailing and merchandising experience ideally in apparel, understands the creative process and can effectively execute strategies in large, complex environments while maintaining strong financial discipline.
"I look forward to serving our employees, customers and shareholders as interim CEO," said Mr. Fisher. "My personal ties and nearly thirty year professional history in operating roles at the company and as a board member have resulted in a deep appreciation for the creative process, gratitude to our customers who have supported us for the past 38 years and profound respect for the talented and passionate employees, past and present who have built this company. During this important transition period for our company, the board of directors and I are committed to working with our employees to enhance our focus on what has been at the heart of the company's past success, reinvigorating our brands and charting a new course for the future that will deliver strong returns for our shareholders."
During his nearly 30-year history at Gap Inc., Mr. Fisher started with the company as a store manager in 1980 and worked his way up through the company's merchandising ranks. He also held a variety of senior executive leadership positions at the company, including chief operating officer, chief financial officer, president of Banana Republic and president of Gap brand. Mr. Fisher has served on the company's board of directors since 1990.
Pursuant to Mr. Pressler's employment agreement dated September 25, 2002, which was disclosed at the time of his hire, Mr. Pressler is eligible for severance benefits subject to certain conditions as described in more detail in his agreement:
 
 
 
In total, and subject to reduction if Mr. Pressler accepts other employment or compensation during the 24-month period, he is eligible for up to approximately $14 million associated with his severance with the company, assuming a company stock price of $20 per share. He is also eligible to receive nominal health benefits.
The company will release 2006 fourth quarter and full-year earnings on March 1, 2007 and continues to expect 2006 earnings per share of $0.83-$0.87 per share, 2006 full-year operating margins of about 7 percent and free cash flow to be about $650 million for the full year. The company also continues to expect the percent increase in inventory per square foot at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 to be in the low-single-digits versus prior year. Please see the reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to the GAAP financial measure in the table at the end of our January 4, 2007 December sales press release, which is available on
gapinc.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: (i) earnings per share for fiscal year 2006; (ii) operating margins for fiscal year 2006; (iii) free cash flow for fiscal year 2006; (iv) inventory per square foot at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006; (v) projected net cash provided by operating activities and (vi) projected purchase of property and equipment.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in gauging fashion trends and changing consumer preferences; the highly competitive nature of the company's business in the U.S. and internationally and its dependence on consumer spending patterns, which are influenced by numerous other factors; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in identifying and negotiating new store locations effectively; the risk that comparable store sales and margins will experience fluctuations; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in implementing its strategic, operating and people initiatives; the risk that adverse changes in the company's credit ratings may have a negative impact on its financing costs and structure in future periods; the risk that trade matters, events causing disruptions in product shipments from China and other foreign countries, or IT systems changes may disrupt the company's supply chain or operations; and the risk that the company will not be successful in defending various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, claims, and audits; any of which could impact net sales, costs and expenses, and/or planned strategies. Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006. Readers should also consult the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 28, 2006.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of January 4, 2007, and the company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading international specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Forth & Towne and Piperlime brand names. Fiscal 2005 sales were $16.0 billion. Gap Inc. operates more than 3,100 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Ireland and Japan. In addition, Gap Inc. is expanding its international presence with franchise agreements for Gap and Banana Republic in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. For more information, please visit
gapinc.com.
 

Exhibit 99.2
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into as of the 25th day of September, 2002 (the "Effective Date"), by and between Paul S. Pressler (the "Executive") and The Gap, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company").
Section 1.
Term of Agreement
Unless earlier terminated as provided below, the term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall conclude on the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date (the "Term").
Section 2.
Duties and Scope of Employment
 
 
Section 3.
Base Compensation and Initial Bonus
 
 
Section 4.
Incentive Compensation
Beginning with fiscal year 2003, Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Management Incentive Award Program ("MICAP"). Executive's eligibility will continue so long as Executive remains as an executive of the Company. MICAP provides cash incentives as a reward for achieving multiple company financial goals. Subject to any shareholder approval required to make the awards eligible for the performance based compensation exception to the deductibility limit under section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the awards shall be based upon a target of 125% of the Base Compensation and a maximum of 250% of Base Compensation. For fiscal year 2003, the actual Incentive Compensation payment (payable in April 2004) shall be at least $1,875,000.
Section 5.
Equity Compensation
 
 
Additional terms regarding all such grants shall be as set forth in the Company's standard stock option agreement generally applicable to senior executives and in Section 8.
 
 
Section 6.
Executive Benefits
 
 
 
Section 7.
Business Expenses and Travel
Executive shall be authorized to incur and shall be reimbursed for all necessary and reasonable travel, entertainment and other business expenses in connection with Executive's duties hereunder.
Section 8.
Termination Without Cause
In the event that Executive's employment as CEO is terminated during the Term by the Company due to a change in control or for any reason other than Cause as defined in Section 9(a) (the "Termination Decision"), subject to the provisions of Sections 8(b)-(e), Executive shall be entitled to receive the payments and benefits described in Section 8(a).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 9.
Other Employment Terminations
 
. For all purposes under this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean termination of Executive's employment based on a good faith determination by the Board that Executive's employment be terminated for any of the following reasons: (1) Executive's participation in, indictment, conviction or admission of any crime involving
Definition of Cause
 
dishonesty or moral turpitude; (2) Executive's participation in any act of fraud or intentional malfeasance against the Company; (3) Executive's material violation of the Company's Code of Business Conduct; (4) Executive's material breach of any provision of this Agreement; (5) Executive's use of alcohol or drugs which interferes with the performance of Executive's duties under this Agreement or which compromises the integrity and reputation of the Company, its employees or products; or (6) Executive's absence from employment for a period of more than four (4) weeks in violation of Company policies and without prior notice to the Board of Directors.
 
 
Section 10.
Confidential Information
 
 
 
 
 
Section 11.
Other Responsibilities of Executive
 
 
 
Section 12.
Remedies
It is specifically understood and agreed that any breach of the provisions of Section 10 or 11 of this Agreement is likely to result in irreparable injury to the Company and that the remedy at law alone will be an inadequate remedy for such breach, and that in addition to any other remedy it may have, the Company shall be entitled to enforce the specific performance of this Agreement by Executive and to obtain both temporary and permanent injunctive relief without the necessity of proving actual damages.
 
Section 13.
Severable Provisions
The provisions of this Agreement are severable and the invalidity of any one or more provisions shall not affect the validity of any other provision. In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction shall determine that any provision of this Agreement or the application thereof is unenforceable in whole or in part because of the duration or scope, the parties agree that the court in making such determination shall have the power to reduce the duration and scope of such provision to the extent necessary to make it enforceable and that the Agreement in its reduced form shall be valid and enforceable to the full extent permitted by law.
Section 14.
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, each of the parties has executed this Agreement, in the case of the Company by the Chairman of the Board, as of the day and year above written. Executive has consulted (or has had the opportunity to consult) with Executive's own counsel (who is other than the Company's counsel) prior to execution of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
This Amendment is entered into by and between Paul S. Pressler ("Executive") and The Gap Inc., a Delaware Corporation (the "Company").
The Company and Executive entered into an Employment Agreement on September 25, 2002 ("Agreement"). Executive and the Company hereby agree to amend section 8(a)(1) of the Agreement to strike the language in that section in the Agreement, and replace it with the following:
 
EXECUTIVE
 
The GAP, INC.
 


