FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20070831162909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On August 28, 2007, Byron H. Pollitt, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for The Gap, Inc. (the "Company"), resigned as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective on September 14, 2007.
On August 29, 2007, Sabrina Simmons, 44, the Company's Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance, was promoted to Executive Vice President of Gap Inc. Finance, also serving as acting chief financial officer and principal financial officer of the Company, effective on September 14, 2007.
Ms. Simmons has had senior financial responsibilities for the Company since joining in 2001 as Vice President and Treasurer. She currently has responsibility for all corporate finance functions including controllership, corporate financial planning and analysis, investor relations, treasury, tax, corporate shared service center, and risk management.
On August 29, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the resignation of Mr. Pollitt and the promotion of Ms. Simmons. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today announced that chief financial officer Byron Pollitt, 56, has decided to leave the company to pursue an opportunity in another industry. His last day as chief financial officer will be September 14, 2007.
SAN FRANCISCO  AUGUST 29, 2007 
The company also announced Sabrina Simmons, 44, currently senior vice president of corporate finance and a six-year Gap Inc. finance veteran, is being promoted to the newly-created position of executive vice president of Gap Inc. finance and will serve as acting chief financial officer. Ms. Simmons will report directly to Glenn Murphy, Gap Inc.'s chairman and chief executive officer.
Mr. Murphy said, "On behalf of all of us at Gap Inc., I want to thank Byron for his tremendous contributions to our company. He's played an integral role in restoring the company's financial health and instilling the strong financial discipline across the organization that exists today."
Commenting on his time with the company, Mr. Pollitt said, "I'm proud of what we've accomplished over the past five years and the financial strength of the company. I am confident the talented team at Gap Inc. will continue to build on the progress that we've made. I wish the company every success in the future."
Ms. Simmons joined Gap Inc. in 2001 as vice president and treasurer. She currently has responsibility for all corporate finance functions including controllership, corporate financial planning and analysis, investor relations, treasury, tax, corporate shared service center, and risk management. In her expanded role as executive vice president, Ms. Simmons will serve on the company's Executive Leadership Team and will oversee all business-related financial matters.
"For the past six years, Sabrina has been critical in bringing financial discipline to Gap Inc., restoring the strength of the company's balance sheet and returning cash to our shareholders," Mr. Murphy added. "I look forward to working more closely with her in the coming months and together, executing on our near-term priorities to continue to enhance shareholder value."
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading international specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, and Piperlime brand names. Fiscal 2006 sales were $15.9 billion. Gap Inc. operates more than 3,100 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Ireland and Japan. In addition, Gap Inc. is expanding its international presence with franchise agreements for Gap and Banana Republic in Asia and the Middle East. For more information, please visit gapinc.com.
 


