FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20100408143804.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 8, 2010, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's sales for the fiscal month ended April 3, 2010. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
99.1 Press Release dated April 8, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today reported that March 2010 net sales were up 12 percent from last year. Net sales for the five-week period ended April 3, 2010 were $1.45 billion compared with net sales of $1.29 billion for the five-week period ended April 4, 2009. The company's comparable store sales for March 2010 increased 11 percent compared with an 8 percent decrease in March 2009.
SAN FRANCISCO  April 8, 2010 
Comparable store sales for March 2010 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
"We're pleased that we continued to make progress on our goal of driving top line sales and that we delivered merchandise margins significantly above last year," said Sabrina Simmons, chief financial officer of Gap Inc. "While we benefited from the Easter shift, our improved sales also reflect that customers are responding well to our brands' spring assortments and value proposition."
Year-to-date net sales were $2.28 billion for the nine weeks ended April 3, 2010, an increase of 10 percent compared with net sales of $2.08 billion for the nine weeks ended April 4, 2009. The company's year-to-date comparable store sales increased 8 percent compared with a 10 percent decrease last year.
For more detailed information, please call 1-800-GAP-NEWS (1-800-427-6397) to listen to Gap Inc.'s monthly sales recording. International callers may call 706-634-4421.
April Sales
The company will report April sales on May 6, 2010.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release and related recording contain forward-looking statements within the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "project," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding: (i) growing top line sales and sales comps, and (ii) expanding gross margin.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: the risk that additional information may arise during the company's close process or as a result of subsequent events that would require the company to make adjustments to the financial information; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in gauging fashion trends and changing consumer preferences; the risk that changes in general economic conditions or consumer spending patterns will have a negative impact on the company's financial performance or strategies; the highly competitive nature of the company's business in the United States and internationally and its dependence on consumer spending patterns, which are influenced by numerous other factors; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in identifying and negotiating new store
locations and renewing or modifying leases for existing store locations effectively; the risk that comparable store sales and margins will experience fluctuations; the risk that the company will be unsuccessful in implementing its strategic, operating and people initiatives; the risk that adverse changes in the company's credit ratings may have a negative impact on its financing costs, structure and access to capital in future periods; the risk that changes to the company's information technology systems may disrupt its operations; the risk that trade matters, events causing disruptions in product shipments from China and other foreign countries, or an inability to secure sufficient manufacturing capacity may disrupt the company's supply chain or operations; the risk that the company's efforts to expand internationally may not be successful and could impair the value of its brands; the risk that acts or omissions by the company's third party vendors, including a failure to comply with the company's code of vendor conduct, could have a negative impact on the company's reputation or operations; the risk that changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations; the risk that the company does not repurchase some or all of the shares it anticipates purchasing pursuant to its repurchase program; and the risk that the company will not be successful in defending various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, claims, and audits; any of which could impact net sales, expenses, and/or planned strategies. Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of April 8, 2010. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading global specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta brands. Fiscal 2009 sales were $14.2 billion. Gap Inc. operates about 3,100 stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, and Japan. In addition, Gap Inc. is expanding its international presence with franchise agreements in Asia, Australia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East. For more information, please visit .
www.gapinc.com
Investor Relations:
Aina Konold
(415) 427-4454
Media Relations:
Kris Marubio
(415) 427-1798
press@gap.com


