FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20100621202146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On June 16, 2010, the Board of Directors of The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") elected Katherine Tsang to serve as a director of the Company, effective August 16, 2010. On June 21, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the election of Ms. Tsang to the Company's Board of Directors. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1        Press Release dated June 21, 2010
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

SAN FRANCISCO - June 21, 2010 - Gap Inc. announced today that Katherine Tsang, Chairperson for Greater China at Standard Chartered PLC, a leading international bank, has been appointed to the company's board of directors, effective August 16, 2010. Ms. Tsang is based in Hong Kong. With Ms. Tsang's appointment, the company's board will expand from 10 to 11 members.
"Katherine's successful track record leading and growing a multinational business in China's flourishing consumer market makes her a tremendous resource to our board as we embark on a new phase of international expansion," said Glenn Murphy, Gap Inc. Chairman and CEO. "She will also bring a unique dimension to our board as one of the top women executives in China." 
Ms. Tsang, 53, is a leading executive at Standard Chartered PLC, an international bank with more than $430 billion in assets, headquartered in the United Kingdom with the majority of its operations in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. With over 30 years of professional experience, she is currently Chairperson for Greater China, spanning China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Prior to this position, she was the company's Executive Vice Chairman and CEO for China. Under her leadership, Standard Chartered PLC has seen unprecedented growth and financial performance in China including a twelve-fold increase in operations.
"I'm excited by the opportunity to join Gap Inc. especially now as it prepares to open its doors in China," said Ms. Tsang. "I hope to be able to contribute to the long-term success and shareholder value of the company."
Ms. Tsang continued: "On a personal note, having spent a great deal of time in North America, I deeply admire the company's brands, cultural relevance and commitment to social responsibility. It will be my honor to contribute in some way to building upon the legacy of the company's founders, Doris and Don Fisher."
Over the past two decades with Standard Chartered, Ms. Tsang has demonstrated strong and innovative leadership. She was the first woman and China native in the company appointed as a regional head of human resources.  Prior to joining Standard Chartered, Ms. Tsang worked in both the public and private sectors, including Arco Chemical Asia Pacific, Kowloon-Canton Railway and the Hong Kong Government. 
Since 2006, Ms. Tsang has served on the Board of Directors for Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. Limited, a $21.7 billion steel manufacturer publicly traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange.
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading global specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories and personal care products for men, women, children and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime and Athleta brand names. Fiscal 2009 sales were $14.2 billion. Gap Inc. operates about 3,100 stores in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Japan and Ireland. In addition, Gap Inc. is expanding its international presence with franchise agreements in Asia, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. For more information, please visit www.gapinc.com.
Media Relations:
Louise Callagy
415-427-3502
press@gap.com
Investor Relations:
Aina Konold
415-427-4454


