FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20111013150724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 13, 2011, The Gap, Inc. issued a press release announcing that it presented an update on its strategies at an investor update meeting on October 13, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today provided a comprehensive business update, detailing its plans to build upon the momentum of its growth strategy, and addressed product and marketing changes underway in its North America business.
NEW YORK  October 13, 2011 
With about 3,100 company-operated stores and about 200 franchise stores in 36 countries and online orders shipped to over 90 countries, the company reaffirmed its goal of growing total sales outside of North America and online to about 30 percent by the end of fiscal 2013. At today's event, leaders shared that retail sales outside North America increased 16 percent in the first half of the year, while revenue from its e-commerce business during this period increased 19 percent across its entire portfolio.
The company plans to bring the first store expression of its value brand, Old Navy, outside of North America, to Japan within the next 18 months, and plans to nearly triple the number of Gap stores in greater China from roughly 15 at the end of this year to about 45 by the end of 2012. The first Gap flagship in Hong Kong is set to open in a matter of weeks on Queen's Road, as is the company's first Banana Republic flagship in Paris later this year. The company's athletic apparel brand, Athleta, is also on target to open over 50 stores by the end of 2013.
"The combination of our global strategy and formidable growth platform puts us in a strong position to expand our reach into the top 10 apparel markets worldwide," said Glenn Murphy, chairman and chief executive officer of Gap Inc. "In North America, we're taking a number of steps to improve sales in the near-term, and I'm confident that with a strong management team in place, we're well positioned for sustained growth across the business."
Speaking at its Gap Global Creative Center in New York City, brand presidents and merchants presented their plans to grow sales, such as: Gap brand, led by Art Peck, is making immediate adjustments across the business and testing provocative ideas, especially around product, store experience and marketing; Old Navy, led by Tom Wyatt, is building upon its improved performance from 2006 to 2010 through a new store model and overhauled marketing campaign in November that will reflect the brand's sense of fun, fashion, family and value; and Banana Republic, led by Jack Calhoun, is making product adjustments to its women's assortment to build off the momentum in its successful menswear division, and is focusing on innovative product partnerships given the recent success with
Mad Men.
"Our brand leaders and their merchants are intent on delivering consistently great product for our target customers," Murphy added.
The company also outlined progress related to its growth, core business performance, and financial health, as summarized below:
 
 
orders alone were logged from over 330 cities, covering all parts of the country. The company expects to have a fleet of about 45 stores in China by the end of fiscal 2012, and expects to double its franchise stores to about 400, by the end of fiscal 2014.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moving beyond 2011, the company remains focused on growing revenue, operating margin and earnings while returning excess cash to shareholders. The company has an overall goal of low
 
single digit revenue growth on its approximately $15 billion revenue base. In North America, sales are expected to grow modestly on its smaller, healthier specialty store fleet supplemented by sales growth in its online and outlet channels. Internationally, the company plans to complement specialty store growth with the higher returning online, outlet and franchise channels. Regarding margins, the company intends, over time, to return to the operating margin levels achieved in 2010. These are expected to be enabled by merchandise margin re-expansion resulting from anticipated normalized cotton prices, especially beginning in the back half of 2012.
To watch a replay of today's event, please visit the webcast archive section of the Gap Inc. Financial News and Events page at .
http://investors.gapinc.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=111302&p=irol-audioArchives
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release and related conference call and webcast contain forward-looking statements within the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "project," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011, as well as the company's subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of October 13, 2011. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
SEC Regulation G
The related conference call and webcast also include the non-GAAP measure  free cash flow  which under SEC Regulation G we are required to reconcile to GAAP measures. Reconciliations of the free cash flow measures to GAAP financial measures are included in the table at the end of this release.
 
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading global specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta brands. Fiscal year 2010 net sales were $14.7 billion. Gap Inc. products are available for purchase in over 90 countries worldwide through about 3,100 company-operated stores, about 200 franchise stores, and e-commerce sites. For more information, please visit
www.gapinc.com.
Investor Relations Contact:
Mike Jenkins
(415) 427-4454
investor_relations@gap.com
Media Relations Contact:
Emily Russel
(415) 427-6230
press@gap.com
 
The Gap, Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
UNAUDITED
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO FREE CASH FLOW
 
 


