FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20110818161300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 18, 2011, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's earnings for the second quarter ended July 30, 2011. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Gap Inc. (NYSE:GPS) today reported that net sales for the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, which ended July 30, 2011, increased 2 percent to $3.39 billion compared with $3.32 billion for the second quarter last year. Net income decreased 19 percent to $189 million compared with $234 million for the second quarter last year. Second quarter diluted earnings per share was $0.35 compared with $0.36 last year.
SAN FRANCISCO  August 18, 2011 
"Despite a difficult quarter, we still delivered a net sales improvement and I continue to believe we have far greater opportunities than challenges ahead of us," said Glenn Murphy, chairman and chief executive officer of Gap Inc. "Every brand, division, and geography is focused on what matters most  delivering consistent, great product and more effective marketing in order to drive higher levels of performance."
In the second quarter, the company continued to focus on its goals for fiscal year 2011, including growing top line sales, maintaining strong expense discipline, investing in long-term growth, and returning cash to shareholders.
Second Quarter Financial and Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter Comparable Sales Results
The company's second quarter comparable sales, which include associated comparable online sales, were down 2 percent compared with a 1 percent increase in the second quarter last year. For the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, online sales positively impacted comparable sales for Gap Inc. by 2 percentage points.
Comparable sales for the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, including the associated comparable online sales, were as follows:
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter Net Sales Results
The following tables represent the company's second quarter net sales:
 
 
Additional Results and 2011 Outlook
Earnings per Share
The company reaffirmed its guidance for fiscal year 2011 diluted earnings per share of $1.40 to $1.50.
Depreciation and Amortization
The company continues to expect depreciation and amortization expense, net of amortization of lease incentives, for fiscal year 2011 to be about $550 million.
Operating Expenses
The company continued to manage costs tightly in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Second quarter operating expenses were $917 million, which was flat to last year. Marketing expenses for the quarter were $114 million, up $13 million compared with last year, driven primarily by Old Navy and the company's online businesses. As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses leveraged 50 basis points.
Effective Tax Rate
The effective tax rate was 39.6 percent for the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. The company continues to expect that the effective tax rate will be about 39 percent for fiscal year 2011.
Inventory
The company reported that inventory dollars per store were up 5 percent at the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 compared with the second quarter of last year, in line with guidance. As stated earlier this month, the company implemented improvements during the second quarter that enhanced the precision of estimating in-transit inventory. This change did not have any impact to the company's income statement.
The company expects inventory units per store to be down in the third quarter. However, the company expects inventory dollars per store at the end of the third quarter to be up in the high single digits compared with the third quarter of last year, driven primarily by product cost increases.
Please see the Financials section under the Investors tab on for the company's explanation of numerical range guidance.
www.gapinc.com
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments
The company ended the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 with $2.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Year to date, free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, was an inflow of $298 million compared with an inflow of $292 million last year. Please see the reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, from the GAAP financial measure in the tables at the end of this press release.
Share Repurchases
During the first half of fiscal year 2011, the company repurchased about 67 million shares for $1.4 billion. At the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, the company had $671 million remaining on its current $2 billion share repurchase authorization.
Dividends
The company paid a dividend of $0.1125 per share during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, which was an increase of 13 percent compared with last year.
Capital Expenditures
Year to date, capital expenditures were $261 million. The company continues to expect fiscal year 2011 capital spending of about $575 million.
Real Estate
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, the company opened 31 store locations and closed 28 store locations.
The company ended the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 with 3,248 store locations in 34 countries, including 195 franchise stores. Net square footage of company-operated stores decreased 2 percent to 37.7 million compared with last year.
The company continues to expect net openings of about 75 stores, including franchise stores, during fiscal year 2011. Full year net square footage for company-operated stores is expected to decrease by about 2 percent for fiscal year 2011.
Webcast and Conference Call Information
Katrina O'Connell, vice president of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations at Gap Inc., will host a summary of the company's second quarter fiscal year 2011 results during a live conference call and real-time webcast at approximately 5 p.m. Eastern Time today. Ms. O'Connell will be joined by Glenn Murphy, Gap Inc. chairman and chief executive officer, and Sabrina Simmons, Gap Inc. chief financial officer.
To access the conference call, please dial (800) 374-1731, or (706) 679-5876 for international callers. The webcast is located on the Financial News and Events page of the Investors section at . A replay of this event will be available on .
www.gapinc.com
www.gapinc.com
August Sales
The company will report August sales on September 1, 2011.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release and related conference call and webcast contain forward-looking statements within the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "project," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011, as well as the company's most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of August 18, 2011. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading global specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta brands. Fiscal year 2010 net sales were $14.7 billion. Gap Inc. products are available for purchase in over 90 countries worldwide through about 3,100 company-operated stores, about 200 franchise stores, and e-commerce sites. For more information, please visit .
www.gapinc.com
Investor Relations Contact:
Mike Jenkins
(415) 427-4454
investor_relations@gap.com
Media Relations Contact:
Emily Russel
(415) 427-6230
press@gap.com
The Gap, Inc.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
UNAUDITED
 
The Gap, Inc.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
UNAUDITED
 
The Gap, Inc.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
UNAUDITED
 
 
The Gap, Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
UNAUDITED
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO FREE CASH FLOW
 
 


