FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20110722151649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On July 19, 2011, the Board of Directors of The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") elected Bella Goren to serve as a director of the Company and as a member of the Board's Audit and Finance Committee, effective August 15, 2011. On July 22, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing Ms. Goren's election. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Ms. Goren will receive Company stock units with an initial aggregate value of $125,000 (based on the then-current fair market value of the Company's common stock) upon the effective date of her appointment to the Board of Directors. The terms of these stock units, as well as the terms of Ms. Goren's other compensation for service as a director, will be consistent with the stock units and other compensation for the Company's other non-employee directors, as described in the Proxy Statement for the Company's 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1        Press Release dated July 22, 2011
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
SAN FRANCISCO- July 22, 2011 - Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today announced that Bella Goren, chief financial officer of AMR Corporation and American Airlines, Inc., has been appointed to the company's board of directors, effective August 15. She will become the 11 member of the board and will serve on the company's audit and finance committee.
th
"Bella Goren is an accomplished business leader with 25 years of experience enabling a truly American company to succeed and expand around the world," said Glenn Murphy, Gap Inc. chairman and chief executive officer. "Her breadth of experience across the financial, operational, and marketing aspects of running an international company will be a tremendous asset to Gap Inc."
Ms. Goren, 51, is a member of AMR Corporation's executive committee and responsible for all of the company's financial functions, including treasury, corporate finance, corporate development, purchasing, accounting, tax, financial planning and relationships with the investment community.
As a 25-year veteran of AMR and American, Ms. Goren is recognized for her operational, finance, and marketing expertise. Her roles of increasing responsibility over the years have included serving as the head of American's Pacific Division, which included operations in Japan and business activities throughout Asia and the South Pacific, and Senior Vice President of Customer Relationship Marketing.
"I'm a long-time fan of the Gap Inc. family of brands, and recognize the growth opportunity the company has going forward," said Goren. "I look forward to contributing in ways that help the company drive long-term success and shareholder value, while staying true to Gap Inc.'s heritage of doing what's right for its customers and community."
Ms. Goren is fluent in Russian. She holds degrees from the University of Texas, and Southern Methodist University. She is on the Executive Board of the SMU School of Engineering and is a member of the International Women's Forum.
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading global specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta brands. Fiscal year 2010 net sales were $14.7 billion. Gap Inc. products are available for purchase in over 90 countries worldwide through about 3,100 company-operated stores, about 175 franchise stores, and e-commerce sites. For more information, please visit www.gapinc.com.
Investor Relations Contact:
Mike Jenkins
(415) 427-4454
investor_relations@gap.com
Media Relations Contact:
Emily Russel
(415) 427-6230
press@gap.com


