FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20110407160047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 7, 2011, The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's sales for the fiscal month ended April 2, 2011. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
On April 7, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing its new credit facility. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
On April 7, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing a public bond offering. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
. (NYSE: GPS) today reported that March 2011 net sales decreased 8 percent compared with last year.
SAN FRANCISCO  April 7, 2011 
Gap Inc
Net sales for the five-week period ended April 2, 2011 were $1.33 billion compared with net sales of $1.45 billion for the five-week period ended April 3, 2010. The Company's comparable sales for March 2011, which include the associated comparable online sales, were down 10 percent compared with an 11 percent increase for March 2010.
"Our overall March performance was impacted by the tragic events in Japan, as well as the Easter shift into late April," said Glenn Murphy, chairman and chief executive officer of Gap Inc. "Our Company has operated in Japan for more than 15 years, with over 150 stores today, so the devastating earthquake touched all of us at Gap Inc."
"Looking ahead, we remain intensely focused on April and delivering on our full year strategies," Murphy added.
The Company anticipates that the tragic events in Japan will negatively impact its first quarter diluted earnings per share by about $0.04. First quarter diluted earnings per share is expected to be below the current mean first call consensus estimate of $0.44.
Comparable sales for March 2011, including the associated comparable online sales, were as follows:
 
 
 
 
For more detailed information, please call 1-800-GAP-NEWS (1-800-427-6397) to listen to Gap Inc.'s monthly sales recording. International callers may call 706-634-4421.
April Sales
The Company will report April sales on May 5, 2011.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release and related conference call and webcast contain forward-looking statements within the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "project," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the following:
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following:
 
 
 
 
Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011.
Forward-looking statements are based on information as of April 7, 2011. The Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading global specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta brands. Fiscal 2010 net sales were $14.7 billion. Gap Inc. products are available for purchase in over 90 countries worldwide through about 3,100 company-operated stores, about 175 franchise stores, and e-commerce sites. For more information, please visit .
www.gapinc.com
Investor Relations Contact:
Mike Jenkins
(415) 427-4454
investor_relations@gap.com
Media Relations Contact:
Emily Russel
(415) 427-6230
press@gap.com

Exhibit 99.2
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today announced that it has entered into a new $500 million revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks led by BofA Merrill Lynch, J.P. Morgan and Citigroup Global Markets. The new financing matures in 2016 and replaces the Company's existing $500 million revolving credit facility. As part of the same financing agreement, the Company also entered into a $400 million five-year term loan.
SAN FRANCISCO  APRIL 7, 2011 
Since 2002, Gap Inc. has demonstrated its ability to generate consistent and strong operating cash flow, through various business cycles and even the global recession. The Company has generated an average of over $1 billion of free cash flow per year over the past five years and ended fiscal year 2010 with $1.7 billion of cash and short-term investments on its balance sheet.
"We believe this is an opportune time to optimize our capital structure by taking advantage of the favorable market conditions," said Sabrina Simmons, chief financial officer at Gap Inc. "Today's announcement points to our financial strength and underscores our commitment to driving long-term shareholder value."
Gap Inc. currently has a corporate credit rating of BB+' by Standard and Poor's Rating Services. Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings are expected to publish the following investment grade ratings for the Company today:
 
 
In a separate press release issued today, the Company also announced a public bond offering.
SEC Regulation G
This press release includes the non-GAAP measure free cash flow, which under SEC Regulation G we are required to reconcile with GAAP. Please see the reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to the GAAP financial measure in the table at the end of this release.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "project," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding:
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following:
 
Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011.
Forward-looking statements are based on information as of April 7, 2011. The Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading global specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta brands. Fiscal 2010 net sales were $14.7 billion. Gap Inc. products are available for purchase in over 90 countries worldwide through about 3,100 company-operated stores, about 175 franchise stores, and e-commerce sites.
Investor Relations Contact:
Mike Jenkins
(415) 427-4454
investor_relations@gap.com
Media Relations Contact:
Emily Russel
(415) 427-6230
press@gap.com
The Gap, Inc.
SEC REGULATION G
UNAUDITED
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO FREE CASH FLOW
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Gap Inc. (NYSE: GPS) today announced a public bond offering, expected to price today. The Company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering for general corporate purposes including share repurchases.
SAN FRANCISCO  APRIL 7, 2011 
Today's offering is being made under an effective registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and available on its website at . This press release is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy these securities. Any offers to sell, or solicitations to buy, will be made solely by means of a prospectus and related prospectus supplement filed with the SEC. A copy of the prospectus and related preliminary prospectus supplement for this offering may be obtained from the following joint book-running managers:
http://www.sec.gov
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Goldman, Sachs & Co., 200 West Street, New York, NY 10282 Attn: Prospectus Department, toll-free at 1-866-471-2526, or by facsimile at 212-902-9316 or by e-mailing
prospectus-ny@ny.email.gs.com
J.P. Morgan
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, 383 Madison Avenue, New York, 10179, Attn: High Grade Syndicate Desk, 3
rd
Floor, or by calling collect at 212-834-4533
BofA Merrill Lynch
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Attn: Prospectus Department, 100 West 33rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10001, toll-free at 1-800-294-1322 or by emailing dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than those that are purely historical are forward-looking statements. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "project," and similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the following:
 
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following:
 
 
 
 
Additional information regarding factors that could cause results to differ can be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 and in the prospectus and related preliminary prospectus supplement.
About Gap Inc.
Gap Inc. is a leading global specialty retailer offering clothing, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, children, and babies under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime, and Athleta brands.
 


