FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20120504145206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On May 4, 2012, the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") approved a grant of Performance Shares to further incentivize delivery on the Company's core growth and financial performance objectives over fiscal years 2012, 2013 and 2014 by the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Glenn Murphy, pursuant to a CEO Performance Share Agreement (the "Agreement"). The following description of the Agreement is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Under Mr. Murphy's leadership since joining the Company in 2007, the Company has made significant organizational and strategic changes to position its brands and divisions for growth and expansion, both in North America and globally. The Committee approved this award for two reasons: (i) to provide a strong incentive for successful execution on the Company's growth strategies and further improvement in the company's financial performance in 2012, 2013 and 2014; and (ii) to ensure retention of Mr. Murphy during this critical phase for the Company. In light of this award, the Committee expects that there will be no additional equity grants to Mr. Murphy through at least the fiscal year 2014.
The grant has been designed to pay for performance over a 3-year period. The target number of shares that may be earned is an aggregate of 1,000,000 (with a potential range of 0 to 2,000,000 shares). Shares will be earned based upon attainment of annual Company earnings objectives as defined by annual EBIT achievement for each of the fiscal years 2012, 2013 and 2014. The target number of shares is allocated evenly across the three years.    No shares will be earned if threshold performance is not achieved.
In considering this grant, the Committee noted that the performance shares originally granted to Mr. Murphy in 2007 gave him the opportunity to earn up to 2,000,000 shares based upon cumulative net earnings over a four year period from 2008 to 2011. During this period, the global recession and unprecedented cotton prices occurred, contributing to the fact that no performance shares were earned by Mr. Murphy.
Any shares earned under the Agreement will vest in January 2015, subject to Mr. Murphy's continued employment by the Company on that date. Shares may also continue to vest, to the extent applicable performance goals are achieved, if Mr. Murphy's employment with the Company terminates under specified circumstances during the third year of the award (in fiscal 2014). In addition, shares may vest, to the extent applicable performance goals are achieved, if Mr. Murphy's employment with the Company terminates under specified circumstances within twelve months after or 60 days prior to a "change in control" of the Company (as defined in the Agreement). The specified circumstances referred to in the preceding two sentences are: (i) involuntarily termination by the Company other than for cause, death, or disability, or (ii) resignation for good reason or a material diminution of responsibilities (each as defined in the Agreement). To the extent shares vest or continue to vest prior to the last day of fiscal 2014 under the specified circumstances listed above, the value of the ultimate award will be reduced by shares having a value on the payment date equal to $9,777,500, which is the estimated value of the post-termination payments Mr. Murphy would be entitled to receive under his original employment agreement with the Company. The vesting and termination provisions are described in detail in Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the attached Agreement.
The Performance Share award, to the extent earned and vested, will be paid out in shares of the Company's common stock on the later of April 30, 2015 or after Mr. Murphy's termination of service.
 
 
Item 7.01.    Regulation FD Disclosure
 
In August 2007, shortly after Mr. Murphy joined the Company, he purchased 150,000 shares of the Company's common stock in the open market.
        On May 4, 2012, Mr. Murphy purchased 150,000 shares of the Company's common stock by exercising previously granted stock options at an exercise price of $16.44 per share. Mr. Murphy is paying cash for the exercise price and applicable tax withholding for these options. With this purchase Mr. Murphy owns in excess of 300,000 shares.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
10.1        CEO Performance Share Agreement between the Company and Glenn Murphy, dated May 4, 2012
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Award No. US909867
The Gap, Inc. (the "Company") hereby grants to Glenn Murphy (the "Employee"), an award (the "Award") of Performance Shares, which represent the right to receive shares of the Company's common stock, $0.05 par value (the "Shares") subject to the fulfillment of performance and vesting conditions and the other conditions provided for hereunder. This Award is granted pursuant to The Gap, Inc. 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and is subject to all of the terms and conditions contained in this CEO Performance Share Agreement, the resolutions of the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company dated May 4, 2012 (the "Committee Resolutions"), Appendix A hereto and Appendix B hereto (collectively, the "Agreement"). The date of this Agreement is May 4, 2012 ("Date of Grant"). Subject to the provisions of the Agreement and of the Plan, the principal features of this Award are as follows:
0
Number of Performance Shares at Threshold Performance:
1,000,000
Number of Performance Shares at Target Performance:
2,000,000
Maximum Number of Performance Shares:
The actual number of Shares to be earned under this Award will be determined based on attainment of annual corporate earnings goals over 3 years described in the Committee Resolutions (the "Performance Goals"). The earnings goals and the extent to which they have been achieved will be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
Performance Goals:
: To the extent that the Performance Goals are achieved and Shares are earned, as determined and certified by the Committee, then 100% of the earned Shares shall vest on January 31, 2015.
Date Performance Shares Scheduled to Vest
To the extent that the Performance Goals are achieved and Shares are earned, as determined and certified by the Committee, then 100% of the earned Shares shall be paid based on the later to occur of (i) April 30, 2015 and (ii) the Employee's separation from service.  If the payment event is April 30, 2015, the shares shall be paid on such date.  If the payment event is separation from service, the shares will be paid on the 90 calendar day following such separation, subject to paragraph 3(d) of Appendix A.  The applicable payment date is herein referred to as the "Payment Date."  For this purpose, "separation from service" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Date(s) Performance Shares are Paid: 
th
As provided in the Plan and in this Agreement, this Award may terminate before the scheduled vesting date of the Performance Shares. For example, if Employee's Termination of Service occurs before January 31, 2015, except as set forth in paragraph 4 or 5 of Appendix A, this Award will terminate at the same time as such termination. Important additional information on vesting and forfeiture of the Performance Shares covered by this Award including those due to changes in employment is contained in paragraphs 3 through 6 of Appendix A.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Employee have executed this Agreement, in duplicate, to be effective as of the date first above written.
THE GAP, INC.
Dated: May 4, 2012
/s/ Michelle Banks
My signature below indicates that I understand that this Award is 1) subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement (including the Committee Resolutions and the attached Appendix A and Appendix B) and of the Plan, 2) not considered salary, nor is it a promise for future grants of Performance Shares, 3) not a term or condition of my employment with the Company (or one of its Affiliates), and 4) made at the sole discretion of the Company.
EMPLOYEE
Dated: May 4, 2012 Signature: 
/s/ Glenn K. Murphy
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERFORMANCE SHARES
. The Company hereby grants to the Employee as a separate incentive that is not in lieu of any salary or other compensation for his or her services, an Award with respect to the number of Performance Shares set forth on page 1 of this Agreement, subject to all the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan. Employee understands and agrees that this Award does not guarantee any future Performance Share grants and that grants are made at the sole discretion of the Company.
Grant of Performance Shares
. Unless and until a Performance Share has vested in accordance with the terms hereof, the Employee will have no right to payment of a Share with respect to the Performance Share. Prior to actual payment of any Shares pursuant to vested Performance Shares, each Performance Share represents an unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company. No Shares shall be issued until after the Performance Shares have vested in accordance with the terms hereof and shall be issued in accordance with the settlement terms hereof. Notwithstanding Section 9.6 of the Plan, the Performance Shares will only be settled, if at all, in Shares, provided that to the extent a fractional share is earned, the number of Shares paid shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number and no fractional Share shall be issued.
Company's Obligation to Pay
.
Vesting of Performance Shares and Issuance of Shares
Subject to paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, the Performance Shares subject to this Agreement will vest (as to the number of Performance Shares determined by the Committee based on the extent to which the Performance Goals have been achieved) on January 31, 2015, but only if the Employee has been continuously employed by, or providing consulting services to, the Company or one of its Affiliates from the date of this Award until January 31, 2015. Subject to paragraphs 4 and 5, if Employee has had a Termination of Service prior to such date, the Award shall terminate as set forth in paragraph 6.
On the Payment Date, one Share shall be issued for each vested Performance Share.
If the Committee, in its discretion, accelerates the vesting of the balance, or some lesser portion of the balance, of the Performance Shares, the payment of such accelerated Performance Shares nevertheless shall be made on the Payment Date.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Performance Shares are settled upon Employee's "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A) and if (i) Employee is subject to U.S. income tax, and (ii) Employee is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A at the time of such separation from service, then any such Performance Shares otherwise payable within the six (6) month period following Employee's separation from service instead will be paid on the date that is six (6) months and one (1) day following the date of Employee's separation from service, unless the Employee dies following his or her separation from service prior to such time, in which case, the Performance Shares will be paid to the Employee's estate (or beneficiary) upon his or her death, subject to paragraph 7. For purposes of this Agreement, "Section 409A" means Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any final Treasury Regulations and other Internal Revenue Service guidance thereunder, as each may be amended from time to time ("Section 409A"). This paragraph 3(d) shall only apply to the extent necessary to avoid adverse consequences under Section 409A.
It is the intent of this Agreement to comply with the requirements of Section 409A so that none of the Performance Shares granted under this Agreement or the Shares issued in payment thereof will be subject to the additional tax or other adverse consequences imposed under Section 409A, and any ambiguities herein will be interpreted to so comply.
No fractional Shares shall be issued under this Agreement. To the extent a fractional share is earned, the number of Shares paid shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number and no fractional Share shall be issued.
4. .  In the event of the Employee's Termination of Service in the Company's 2014 fiscal year (whether or not in connection with a Change-in-Control (as defined in the Employment Agreement) (i) by the Company other than for Cause, death or Disability or (ii) by the Employee for Good Reason or a Material Diminution of Responsibilities (each, a "Qualifying Termination"), the Performance Shares shall automatically and without the exercise of discretion by the Committee continue to vest as if such Termination of Service had not occurred, and shall be settled, on the Payment Date in a number of Shares determined by the extent that the Performance Goals have been achieved for the entire Performance Period (as defined in the Committee Resolutions), less a number of Shares having a fair market value on the Payment Date equal to $9,777,500. For this purpose, such reduction shall be applied until exhausted first against the vested portion of the Performance Shares earned on account of fiscal year 2012 performance, second against the vested portion of the Performance Shares earned on account of fiscal year 2013 performance, and last against the vested portion of the Performance Shares earned on account of fiscal year 2014 performance. For purposes of this paragraphs 4 and 5, "Cause," "Disability," "Good Reason" and "Material Diminution of Responsibilities" shall have the meaning set forth in the Employee's Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with the Company effective as of July 25, 2007, as amended December 1, 2008 and February 9, 2009 (the "Employment Agreement").
Certain Terminations in Fiscal Year 2014
5. . In the event of the Employee's Termination of Service in the Company's 2012 or 2013 fiscal year (i) by the Company other than for Cause, death or Disability or (ii) by the Employee for Good Reason or a Material Diminution of Responsibilities, in each case, within 12 months following a Change-in-Control (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or within 60 calendar days prior to a Change-in-Control, the Performance Shares attributable to the fiscal year in which such termination occurs and any prior fiscal year in the Performance Period (as defined in the Committee Resolutions) shall automatically and without the exercise of discretion by the Committee become vested, and shall be settled, on the Payment Date in a number of Shares determined by the extent that the Performance Goals have been achieved through the end of the fiscal year of such termination and any prior year in the Performance Period as applicable and set forth in the Committee Resolutions; provided, however, that (i) the number of shares attributable to any fiscal year in which the Employee was continuously employed by the Company for less than the full fiscal year shall be pro-rated based on the percentage of days in such fiscal year in which the Employee was so employed and (ii) the total number of shares payable under this paragraph 5 shall be reduced by a number of Shares having a fair market value on the Payment Date equal to $9,777,500. For this purpose, such reduction shall be applied until exhausted first against the vested portion of the Performance Shares earned on account of fiscal year 2012 performance and second, if applicable, against the vested portion of the Performance Shares earned on account of fiscal year 2013 performance. The Performance Shares attributable to the fiscal year(s) after which such termination occurs shall be forfeited.
Change in Control Termination in Fiscal Year 2012 or 2013
6.  Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement and except as set forth in paragraphs 3, 4 or 5, the balance of Performance Shares that have not vested will be forfeited and cancelled automatically at the time of the Employee's Termination of Service. For purposes of this Agreement, Termination of Service shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan and be determined by reference to Employee's active service without reference to any other agreement, written or oral, including Employee's contract of employment (if any). Thus, in the event of Employee's Termination of Service (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), unless otherwise expressly provided for under this Agreement, Employee's right to vest in the Performance Shares under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective on Employee's Termination of Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (, active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Employee has incurred a Termination of Service.
Termination of Service.
e.g.
7. . Regardless of any action the Company or Employee's employer (the "Employer") takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, or other tax-related items related to the Employee's participation in the Plan and legally applicable to the Employee ("Tax-Related Items"), the Employee acknowledges and agrees that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items legally due by the Employee is and remains the Employee's responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. Employee further acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (a) makes no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Performance Shares, including the grant or vesting of the Performance Shares, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired under the Plan and the receipt of dividends, if any; and (b) does not commit to and is under no obligation to structure the terms of the Performance Shares or any aspect of the Performance Shares to reduce or eliminate the Employee's liability for Tax-Related Items, or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if Employee has become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any relevant taxable event, Employee acknowledges that the Companyand/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.
Withholding Taxes
 
No payment will be made to the Employee (or his or her estate) for the Performance Shares unless and until satisfactory arrangements (as determined by the Committee) have been made by the Employee with respect to the payment of any Tax-Related Items obligations of the Company and/or the Employer with respect to the Performance Shares. In this regard, the Employee authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:
(a) withholding from Employee's wages or other cash compensation paid to Employee by the Company or the Employer; or
(b) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting of the Performance Shares, either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on Employee's behalf pursuant to this authorization); or
(c) withholding in Shares to be issued upon payment of the Performance Shares; or
(d) surrendering already-owned Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the Tax-Related Items that have been held for such period of time to avoid adverse accounting consequences.
If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding Shares, for tax purposes, the Employee is deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the Performance Shares, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of the Employee's participation in the Plan. The Employee shall pay to the Company or Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Employee's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by one or more of the means previously described in this paragraph 7. The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares if Employee fails to comply with his or her obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.
It is the Company's current practice to withhold a portion of the Shares scheduled to be issued pursuant to vested Performance Shares that have an aggregate market value sufficient to pay the Tax-Related Items. The Company will only withhold whole Shares and therefore the Employee also authorizes deduction without notice from salary or other amounts payable to the Employee of cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy the Employer's remaining tax withholding obligation. Notwithstanding the previous two sentences, the Employee, if the Company in its sole discretion so agrees, may elect to furnish to the Company written notice, no more than 30 days and no less than 5 days in advance of the Payment Date (or other required withholding event), of his or her intent to satisfy the tax withholding requirement by remitting the full amount of the tax withholding to the Company on the Payment Date (or other required withholding event). In the event that Employee provides such written notice and fails to satisfy the amounts required for the Tax-Related Items by the Payment Date (or other required withholding event), the Company shall satisfy the tax withholding requirement pursuant to the first two sentences of this paragraph. However, the Company reserves the right to withhold for Tax-Related Items pursuant to any means set forth in this paragraph.
8. . If Employee is subject to tax in a country outside the U.S. ("Foreign Country") and if pursuant to the tax rules in such Foreign Country, Employee will be subject to tax prior to the date that Employee is issued Shares pursuant to this Agreement, the Committee, in its discretion, may accelerate settlement of a portion of the Performance Shares to the extent already earned and vested (including satisfaction of the Performance Goals) and necessary to pay the foreign taxes due (and any applicable U.S. income taxes due as a result of the acceleration of settlement) but only if such acceleration does not result in adverse consequences under Section 409A (as permitted under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(xi)) or loss of the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Code or otherwise cause any portion of the award to become subject to the deduction limits of Section 162(m).
Vesting/ Foreign Taxes Due
9. . Any distribution or delivery to be made to the Employee under this Agreement will, if the Employee is then deceased, be made to the Employee's designated beneficiary to the extent such designation is valid under applicable law, or if no such beneficiary survives the Employee or no beneficiary is designated, the person or persons entitled to such distribution or delivery under the Employee's will or, to the executor of his or her estate. In order to be effective, a beneficiary designation must be made by the Employee in a form and manner acceptable to the Company and permitted by the Company. Any transferee must furnish the Company with (a) written notice of his or her status as transferee, and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Company to establish the validity of the transfer and compliance with any laws or regulations pertaining to said transfer.
Beneficiary Designation
10. . The Shares deliverable to the Employee on the Payment Date may be either previously authorized but unissued Shares or issued Shares that have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares hereunder so long as the Company reasonably anticipates that such issuance will violate Federal securities law, foreign securities law or other applicable law; provided however, that in such event the Company shall issue such Shares at the earliest possible date at which the Company reasonably anticipates that the issuance of the shares will not cause such violation. For purposes of the previous sentence, any issuance of Shares that would cause inclusion in gross income or the application of any penalty provision or other provision of the Internal Revenue Code or foreign tax law shall not be treated as a violation of applicable law.
Conditions to Issuance of Shares
11. . Neither the Employee nor any person claiming under or through the Employee will have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Performance Share unless and until Shares have been issued in accordance with paragraph 3, 4 or 5, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Employee. Except as provided in paragraph 12, after such issuance, recordation, and delivery, the Employee will have all the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to voting such Shares and receipt of dividends and distributions on such Shares.
Rights as Stockholder
12. . The Award is subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 4.3 of the Plan.
Adjustments
13. . In accepting the grant of Performance Shares, the Employee acknowledges that:
Nature of Grant
(a) the grant of the Performance Shares is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Performance Shares, or benefits in lieu of Performance Shares, even if Performance Shares have been granted repeatedly in the past;
(b) all decisions with respect to future Performance Share grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(c) the Employee's participation in the Plan shall not create a right to further employment with the Employer and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate his or her employment relationship at any time;
(d) the Employee is voluntarily participating in the Plan;
(e) the Performance Shares are an extraordinary item that do not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Companyor the Employer, and which are outside the scope of the Employee's employment contract, if any;
 
(f) the Performance Shares and the Shares subject to the Performance Shares are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;
(g) the Performance Shares are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or the Employer;
(h) the Performance Shares grant and the Employee's participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company or any Affiliate;
(i) the future value of the Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; further, neither the Company, nor any Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Performance Shares;
(j) in consideration of the grant of the Performance Shares, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Performance Shares resulting from Employee's Termination of Service with the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and the Employee irrevocably releases the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, the Employee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such claim; and
(k) the Performance Shares and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.
14. . The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding the Employee's participation in the Plan, or his or her acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. The Employee is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding the Employee's participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
No Advice Regarding Grant
15. . The Employee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Employee's personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Company and its Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Employee's participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy
The Employee understands that the Company and its Affiliates may hold certain personal information about the Employee, including, but not limited to, the Employee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company or any Affiliate, details of all Performance Shares or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Employee's favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Personal Data").
The Employee understands that Personal Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in the United States, the Employee's country, or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Employee's country. The Employee understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Personal Data by contacting the Employee's local human resources representative. The Employee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Personal Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Employee's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Personal Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Employee may elect to deposit any Shares received upon vesting of the Performance Shares. The Employee understands that Personal Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Employee's participation in the Plan. The Employee understands that he or she may, at any time, view Personal Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Personal Data, require any necessary amendments to Personal Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, without cost, by contacting in writing the Employee's local human resources representative. The Employee understands that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect the Employee's ability to participate in the Plan or to realize benefits from the Performance Shares. For more information on the consequences of the Employee's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Employee understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative.
16. . This Agreement is subject to all the terms and provisions of the Plan. In the event of a conflict between one or more provisions of this Agreement and one or more provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan will govern. Terms used in this Agreement that are not defined in this Agreement will have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
Plan Governs
17. . The Committee will have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether or not any portion of the Performance Share has vested). All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee in good faith will be final and binding upon the Employee, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Committee will be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement.
Committee Authority
18. . Employee understands and agrees that this Agreement does not impact in any way the right of the Employer to terminate or change the terms of the employment of Employee at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without good cause provided in accordance with applicable local law. Employee understands and agrees that unless contrary to applicable local law or there is an employment contract in place providing otherwise, his or her employment is "at-will" and that either the Employer or Employee may terminate Employee's employment at any time and for any reason subject to applicable local law. Employee also understands and agrees that his or her "at-will" status (if applicable) can only be changed by an express written contract signed by an authorized officer of the Company and Employee if the Employee's employer is the Company.
No Modification of At-Will Status
19. . Except as otherwise herein provided, the Performance Shares herein granted and the rights and privileges conferred hereby will not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise) and will not be subject to sale under execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of such Performance Share, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions hereof, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, such Performance Share and the rights and privileges conferred hereby will immediately become null and void.
Non-Transferability of Award
20. . Subject to the limitation on the transferability of the Performance Share contained herein, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the Employee and the Company.
Binding Agreement
21. . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement will be addressed to the Company, in care of its Legal Department, at The Gap, Inc., Two Folsom, San Francisco, California 94105, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to the Employee will be addressed to the Employee at the address set forth on the records of the Company. Any such notice will be deemed to have been duly given if and when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope, addressed as aforesaid, and deposited, postage prepaid, in a United States post office or generally recognized international courier such as DHL or Federal Express.
Addresses for Notices
22. . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Captions
23. . In the event that any provision in this Agreement will be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Agreement Severable
24. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties on the subjects covered. The Employee expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. Modifications to this Agreement or the Plan can be made only in an express written agreement executed by a duly authorized officer of the Company.
Modifications to the Agreement
25. . By accepting this Award, the Employee expressly warrants that he or she has received a right to an equity based award under the Plan, and has received, read, and understood a description of the Plan. The Employee understands that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be modified, suspended, or terminated by the Company at any time.
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
26. . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California without regard to principles of conflict of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or indirectly from the relationship of the parties evidenced by this grant or the Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of San Francisco County, California, or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.
Notice of Governing Law and Venue
27. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. The Employee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery
28. . If the Employee has received this Agreement, including Appendices, or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English, and the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Language
29. . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Performance Shares shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for Employee's country. Moreover, if the Employee relocates to one of the countries included in Appendix B, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to the Employee, to the extent Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. As stated above, Appendix B constitutes part of this Agreement.
Appendix B
30. . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on Employee's participation in the Plan, on the Performance Shares and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require the Employee to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
Imposition of Other Requirements
 
Terms and Conditions
This Appendix B includes special terms and conditions applicable to Employee if Employee resides in one of the countries listed below. These terms and conditions are in addition to or, if so indicated, in place of, the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement. Unless otherwise provided below, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Agreement.
Notifications
This Appendix also includes country-specific information of which Employee should be aware with respect to his or her participation in the Plan. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of May 2011. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that Employee does not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of Employee's participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time that Employee vests in Performance Shares or sells Shares acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to Employee's particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure Employee of any particular result. Accordingly, Employee is advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in his or her country may apply to his or her situation. Finally, please note that if Employee is a citizen or resident of a country other than the country in which he or she is currently working, or transfers employment after grant, the information contained in this Appendix may not be applicable to Employee.
CANADA
Notwithstanding any discretion or anything to the contrary in the Plan, the grant of the Performance Shares does not provide any right for Employee to receive a cash payment and the Performance Shares will be settled in Shares only.
Settlement of Performance Shares. 
The following provisions will apply to Employees who are residents of Quebec:
The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.
Language Consent. 
 ("Agreement"), 
Les parties reconnaissent avoir exige la redaction en anglais de cette convention
ainsi que de tous documents executes, avis donnes et procedures judiciaries intentees, directement ou indirectement, relativement a la presente convention.
This provision supplements paragraph 15 of Appendix A of the Agreement:
Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information. 
Employee hereby authorizes the Company and the Company's representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. Employee further authorizes the Company, its Affiliates and the Committee, which administers the Plan, to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors. Employee further authorizes the Company and any Affiliate to record such information and to keep such information in Employee's employee file.
France
This Award is not intended to be French tax-qualified.
Taxation of Award. 
  In accepting the grant of the Performance Shares and the Agreement which provides for the terms and conditions of the Performance Shares, Employee confirms that he or she has read and understood the documents relating to the Performance Shares (the Plan and the Agreement), which were provided in the English language. Employee accepts the terms of these documents accordingly.
Language Consent.
 En acceptant cette attribution gratuite d'actions et ce contrat qui contient les termes et conditions de cette attribution gratuite d'actions, l'employe confirme ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs a cette attribution (le Plan et le Contrat d'Attribution) qui lui ont ete communiques en langue anglaise. , L'employe en accepte les termes en connaissance de cause.
Consentement Relatif a la Langue Utilisee.
Employee may hold Shares acquired under the Plan outside of France provided he or she declares all foreign accounts, whether open, current, or closed, in his or her income tax return. Furthermore, Employee must declare to the customs and excise authorities any cash or bearer securities he or she imports or exports without the use of a financial institution when the value of the cash or securities is equal to or exceeds 10,000 Euros (for 2011).
Exchange Control Information. 
HONG KONG
 The Performance Shares and Shares issued upon vesting (if any) do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to Employees of the Company and its Affiliates. The Agreement, including this Appendix B, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a "prospectus" for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong. Nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The Award is intended only for the personal use of each eligible Employee of the Company or its Affiliates and may not be distributed to any other person. If Employee is in any doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix B, or the Plan, Employee should obtain independent professional advice.
Securities Law Notice.
 In the event the Employee's Performance Shares vest and Shares are issued to the Employee within six months of the date of grant, the Employee agrees that he or she will not dispose of any of such Shares prior to the six-month anniversary of the date of grant.
Vesting of Performance Shares and Sale of Shares.
INDIA
 The amount subject to tax at vesting may be dependent upon a valuation of Shares from a Merchant Banker in India. The Company has no responsibility or obligation to obtain the most favorable valuation possible nor obtain valuations more frequently than required under Indian tax law.
Tax Information.
Employee understands that he or she must repatriate any proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan and any dividends received in relation to the Shares to India and convert the proceeds into local currency within ninety (90) days of receipt. Employee will receive a foreign inward remittance certificate ("FIRC") from the bank where he or she deposits the foreign currency. Employee should maintain the FIRC as evidence of the repatriation of fund in the event the Reserve Bank of India or the Employer requests proof of repatriation.
Exchange Control Obligations. 
INDONESIA
If Employee remits proceeds from the sale of Shares into Indonesia, the Indonesian Bank through which the transaction is made will submit a report on the transaction to the Bank of Indonesia for statistical reporting purposes. For transactions of US$10,000 or more, a description of the transaction must be included in the report. Although the bank through which the transaction is made is required to make the report, Employee must complete a "Transfer Report Form." The Transfer Report Form should be provided to Employee by the bank through which the transaction is made.
Exchange Control Information. 
KOREA
Exchange control laws require Korean residents who realize US$500,000 or more from the sale of Shares to repatriate the proceeds to Korea within 18 months of the sale.
Exchange Control Information. 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By accepting the Performance Shares, the Employee acknowledges and agrees that the immediate sale of the Shares issued upon the vesting of Performance Shares is required unless the Company, in its sole discretion, determines otherwise. Such Shares will be transferred to a brokerage firm designated by the Company (the "Brokerage Firm"). The Brokerage Firm, on the Employee's behalf, may thereafter immediately sell the Shares at the prevailing market price pursuant to any process for the sale set forth by the Company, and deliver the proceeds less the Tax-Related Items and any broker fees, to the Company or its designee, which would then remit the net proceeds to the Employee through the Company's or Affiliate's special purpose bank account in China. As a result of the immediate sale of Shares as set forth in this Appendix B, no Shares would be delivered to the Employee, and the Employee would not have any resulting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
Mandatory Sale of Shares Upon Vesting. 
.  The Employee's ability to be issued Shares at vesting shall be contingent upon the Company or its Affiliate obtaining approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange ("SAFE") for Employee's participation in the Plan (to the extent required as determined by the Company in its sole discretion) and the establishment of a SAFE-approved bank account. If at the time of vesting, SAFE approval has not been obtained, the Company may cancel this award of Performance Shares with no liability, compensation or benefits in lieu of compensation due to Employee. Employee understands and agrees that he or she will be required to immediately repatriate the proceeds from the vesting/ immediate sale of Shares to China. Employee further understands that such repatriation of proceeds may need to be effected through a special foreign exchange account established by the Company or Affiliate and Employee hereby consents and agrees that the proceeds from the vesting/ immediate sale of Shares may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to Employee's personal account. Furthermore, Employee understands that due to SAFE approval requirements, there may be delays in delivering the proceeds to Employee, Employee will bear any exchange rate risk during the period between vesting and when the proceeds are delivered to him or her, Employee may be required to open a U.S. dollar bank account to receive the proceeds and also Employee may be required to pay the Company or an Affiliate the taxes due at vesting prior to receiving the proceeds from vesting/ immediate sale of Shares.
Special Administration in China
Please note that these special administration procedures will not apply to non Chinese Nationals.
The provisions above pursuant to which Employee agrees to sell all Shares issued to him or her immediately when the Shares are issued to him or her upon vesting at the then current market price is intended to be a plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to the extent Employee is subject to this Act.  By signing the Agreement, Employee represents that he or she is not aware of any material non-public information about the Company at the time he or she is signing the Agreement.
SINGAPORE
The grant of the Award is made in reliance on section 273(1)(f) of the Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289) ("SFA") for which it is exempt from the prospectus and registration requirements under the SFA.
Securities Law Notice
. 
 If Employee is a director, associate director or shadow director (i.e., a non-director who has sufficient control so that the directors act in accordance with the directions and instructions of this individual) of the Company's local entity in Singapore, he or she is subject to notification requirements under the Singapore Companies Act. Some of these notification requirements will be triggered by Employee's participation in the Plan. Specifically, Employee is required to notify the local Singapore company when he or she acquires or disposes an interest in the Company, including when Employee receives Shares upon vesting of this Award and when Employee sells these Shares. The notification must be in writing and must be made within two days of acquiring or disposing of any interest in the Company (or within two days of initially becoming a director, associate director or shadow director of the Company's local entity in Singapore). If Employee is unclear as to whether he or she is a director, associate director or shadow director of the Company's local entity in Singapore or the form of the notification, he or she should consult with his or her personal legal advisor.
Director Notification Obligation.
 
UNITED KINGDOM
Notwithstanding any discretion or anything to the contrary in the Plan, the grant of the Performance Shares does not provide any right for Employee to receive a cash payment and the Performance Shares will be settled in Shares only.
Settlement of Performance Shares. 
The following provision supplements paragraph 10 of the Agreement:
Tax and National Insurance Contributions Acknowledgment. 
Employee agrees that if Employee does not pay or the Employer or the Company does not withhold from Employee the full amount of Tax-Related Items that Employee owes in connection with the vesting of the Award and/or the acquisition of Shares pursuant to the vesting of the Award, or the release or assignment of the Award for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Award (the "") within ninety (90) days after the Taxable Event, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by Employee to the Employer, effective ninety (90) days after the Taxable Event. Employee agrees that the loan will bear interest at the official rate of HM Revenue and Customs ("HMRC") and will be immediately due and repayable by Employee, and the Company and/or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by withholding the funds from salary, bonus or any other funds due to Employee by the Employer, by withholding in Shares issued upon vesting of the Award or from the cash proceeds from the sale of such Shares or by demanding cash or a cheque from Employee. Employee also authorizes the Company to withhold the transfer of any Shares unless and until the loan is repaid in full.
Taxable Event
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Employee is an officer or executive director (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that Employee is an officer or executive director and Tax-Related Items are not collected from or paid by Employee within ninety (90) days of the Taxable Event, the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items may constitute a benefit to Employee on which additional income tax and National Insurance contributions may be payable. Employee will be responsible for reporting any income tax and National Insurance contributions due on this additional benefit directly to HMRC under the self-assessment regime.
 


