FILE:GPS/GPS-8K-20120516141240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 15, 2012, The Gap, Inc. ("the Company") held its annual meeting of shareholders ("Annual Meeting") in San Francisco, California. As of March 19, 2012, the Company's record date for the Annual Meeting, there were a total of 490,175,292 shares of Common Stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. At the Annual Meeting, 452,139,797 shares of Common Stock were represented in person or by proxy and, therefore, a quorum was present.
The shareholders of the Company voted on the following items at the Annual Meeting:
 
 
 
 
Votes regarding the election of the director nominees were as follows:
 
Based on the votes set forth above, the director nominees were duly elected.
The proposal to ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending February 2, 2013 received the following votes:
 
Based on the votes set forth above, the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending February 2, 2013 was duly ratified.
The proposal to approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers received the following votes:
 
Based on the votes set forth above, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers was approved.
The shareholder proposal regarding ending trade partnerships with Sri Lanka received the following votes:
 
Based on the votes set forth above, the shareholder proposal regarding ending trade partnerships with Sri Lanka was not approved.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


