FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20041027135113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits

Harman International PRESS RELEASE
Washington, D.C.  Harman International Industries, Incorporated (NYSE:  HAR) today announced record sales and earnings for the first quarter ended September 30, 2004.  Net sales for the quarter were $691.7 compared to $597.3 million during the same period last year, an increase of 16 percent.  Net income for the three months was $33.7 million, a 70 percent increase over net income of $19.8 million a year ago.  Earnings per diluted share were $0.48 versus $0.29 in the prior year.  The first quarter results are net of a $3.0 million non-operating charge for the repurchase of Company debt. 
The Consumer Systems Group had net sales of $579.8 million for the quarter, an 18 percent increase above $490.2 million in the prior year first quarter.  Professional Group net sales were $111.9 million compared to $107.1 million last year, an increase of 4 percent.
Commenting on the results for the quarter, Dr. Sidney Harman, Executive Chairman, and Bernard Girod, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said:  We are pleased with the strong results for the quarter. Each of our operating groups reported significant gains in earnings versus last year. Our consumer home businesses operated profitably despite a significant increase in engineering investment. The Professional Group reported record results, tripling last years earnings. The consumer OEM business continued to show impressive results, particularly in Europe.
The Company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement for the acquisition of QNX Software Systems Ltd. . Located near Ottawa, Canada, QNX provides the Operating System for Harmans infotainment software. Harman now owns its own operating system, which is expected to generate consequential cost reductions and increased system design flexibility.  Earnings for the next two or three years will be impacted by approximately 5 percent to reflect the cost of this important acquisition.
(www.qnx.com)
Commenting on the agreement, Dr. Harman and Bernard Girod said: The acquisition of QNX will allow the optimization of our software by fully integrating the operating system, the basic framework and the applications.  Harman will now control the entire software suite.


