FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20070924120210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
On September 21, 2007, Harman International Industries, Incorporated (Harman) issued a press release announcing it had been informed that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (KKR) and GS Capital Partners VI Fund, L.P. (GSCP) no longer intend to complete the previously announced acquisition of Harman by a company formed by investment funds affiliated with or sponsored by KKR and GSCP on the terms of the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated April 26, 2007.  A copy of the press release is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
On September 24, 2007, Harman issued a press release providing financial guidance for the first quarter and the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 and announcing an investor conference call.  A copy of the press release is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED
By:   
/s/ Sandra B. Robinson
Sandra B. Robinson
Vice President  Financial Operations and
Chief Accounting Officer
Date:  September 24, 2007

 
 
Harman International
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
September 21, 2007                                             FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 Contact:  Robert C. Ryan
   
 Harman International Industries
   
 202.393.1101
   
WASHINGTON, D.C. September 21, 2007  Harman International Industries, Incorporated (NYSE: HAR) announced that it was informed this afternoon that Kohlberg Kravis  Roberts & Co. L.P. (KKR) and GS Capital Partners VI Fund, L.P. (GSCP) no longer intend to complete the previously announced acquisition of Harman by a company formed by investment funds affiliated with or sponsored by KKR and GSCP.  KKR and GSCP have informed Harman that they believe that a material adverse change in Harman's business has occurred, that Harman has breached the merger agreement and that they are not obligated to complete the merger.  Harman disagrees that a material adverse change has occurred or that it has breached the merger agreement.
Forward Looking Information
 
This communication contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Those forward looking statements include all statements other than those made solely with respect to historical fact.  Numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.
 
These factors include, but are not limited to, (1) the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement; (2) the outcome of the discussions relating to the status of the proposed merger; (3) the inability to complete the proposed merger due to the failure to obtain stockholder approval or the failure to satisfy other conditions to the merger; (4) the failure to obtain the necessary financing arrangements set forth in the commitment letter received in connection with the proposed merger, including as a result of the current condition of the debt capital markets; (5) the inability to complete the proposed merger on the terms set forth in the merger agreement; (6) risks that the proposed merger disrupts current plans and operations of Harman and the potential difficulties in employee retention as a result of the merger; (7) the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted by or against Harman and others following the announcement of the merger agreement; and (8) other factors described in Harmans filings with the SEC, including its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K.  Many of the factors that will determine the outcome of the subject matter of this communication are beyond Harmans ability to control or predict.  Harman undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, or to make any other forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future results or otherwise.
 
Harman International designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of products for the automotive, consumer and professional markets.  Its brands include Harman Kardon, JBL, Revel, Mark Levinson, Infinity, Lexicon, Soundcraft-Studer, AKG, Becker and QNX. The company maintains a strong presence in the Americas, Europe and Asia and employs more than 10,500 people.  Harman International Industries, Incorporated () is a leading manufacturer of high-quality, high-fidelity audio products and electronic systems for the automotive, consumer and professional markets.  The companys stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the Symbol: HAR.
www.harman.com
 
 
 

Harman International
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
September 24, 2007                                 
   
   
   
   
   
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     Contact:  Robert C. Ryan
   
   
   
   
   
     Vice President  Treasurer
   
   
   
   
   
     Harman International Industries, Incorporated
   
   
   
   
   
     202.393.1101
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
WASHINGTON, D.C.  September 24, 2007  Harman International Industries, Incorporated (NYSE: HAR) is releasing its forecast for the first quarter and for the year ending June 30, 2008. It will hold an investor call on Thursday, September 27, 2007.
 
Harman International is a sound company with exceptional market position and strong future prospects.  It is important for investors and our other constituents to be reminded of this, particularly in light of last Fridays decision by our former merger partners, said Dr. Sidney Harman, Executive Chairman.
 
Dinesh Paliwal, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer said, In my early days at Harman I am impressed with the Companys technology, customer relationships and talented people.  While we have some near-term challenges, this remains a great company and I am committed to do whatever it takes to help us realize our full potential.  To get there, we will be looking critically at each of our divisions, and we expect to accelerate the restructuring of under performing business units.
 
Forecast Information
 
The Company expects fiscal 2008 performance to be impacted by a number of factors including increased R&D to support the development of several new infotainment platforms and associated launch costs.  We now expect fiscal 2008 sales to reach $4.1 billion ($3.55 billion in 2007)The Company expects operating income and diluted EPS before merger related costs to equal or exceed last years record performance.  In 2007, operating income was $397 million and diluted EPS were $4.14 adjusted for non-recurring restructuring charges, merger costs and tax items.
.
 
For the quarter ending September 30, 2007 we estimate net sales of $950 million, operating profit of $40 million and diluted EPS of  $0.50 before merger-related costs.  As previously disclosed, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and the first quarter of fiscal 2008 were affected by increased R&D costs, primarily related to recent automotive platform awards.  We expect substantial margin improvements over the course of fiscal 2008 as we work through these costs and begin the launching of new infotainment platforms.
 
In light of increases in material costs and faster ramp-up of R&D resources to work on new business awards, equaling the record operating performance of fiscal 2007 is an achievement. The benefits of common platform synergy and scalability will be realized in fiscal 2009 and beyond. Those benefits will strengthen our operating profits, said Paliwal.
 
Investor Call on September 27th
 
At 4:30 p.m. EDT on September 27, 2007, Harman's management will host an analyst and investor conference call to discuss the Companys current expectations for fiscal 2008.  A question and answer session will follow.   In light of matters disclosed in the Companys September 21, 2007 press release, Harmans management cannot accept questions about the proposed merger with affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and GS Capital Partners VI Fund, L.P.  Those who wish to participate in the call should dial (800) 398-9379 (US) or (612) 332-0107 (International), and reference Harman International.
 
A replay of the call will also be available following the completion of the call at approximately 8:00 p.m. EDT.  The replay will be available through October 4, 2007.  To listen to the replay, dial (800) 475-6701 (US) or (320) 365-3844 (International), Access Code: 888651.
 
AT&T will also be web-casting the presentation.  The web-cast can be accessed at http://65.197.1.5/att/confcast enter the Conference ID: 888651, then enter the pass code:  Harman and click Go.  There will also be a link to the web-cast at www.harman.com.  Participation through the web-cast will be in listen-only mode.
 
General Information
 
Harman International designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of products for the automotive, consumer and professional markets.  Its brands include Harman Kardon, JBL, Revel, Mark Levinson, Infinity, Lexicon, Soundcraft-Studer, AKG, Becker and QNX. The company maintains a strong presence in the Americas, Europe and Asia and employs more than 10,500 people.  Harman International (www.harman.com) is a leading manufacturer of high-quality, high-fidelity audio products and electronic systems for the automotive, consumer and professional markets.  The companys stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the Symbol: HAR.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The Companys forecasts for operating profit and diluted earnings per share for the first quarter and full fiscal 2008 year are presented on a non-GAAP, forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures are operating profit and diluted earnings per share. The Company is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures with the comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because it cannot reliably forecast all costs related to the proposed merger with affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and GS Capital Partners VI Fund, L.P.  Those costs are difficult to predict and estimate. Please note that these costs could significantly impact Harmans future financial results.
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of fiscal 2007 non-GAAP operating income, diluted EPS and other measures in order to provide stockholders with a better understanding of our fiscal 2007 restructuring charges, merger costs and tax items.  These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Forward-Looking Information
 
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters discussed are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act.  One should not place undue reliance on these statements.  We base these statements on particular assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience, as well as our perception of historical trends, current market conditions, current economic data, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances.  These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements, including but not limited to (1) the outcome of any legal proceedings that have or may be instituted by or against Harman and others related to the proposed merger with affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. and GS Capital Partners VI Fund, L.P.; (2) the effect of changes in consumer confidence; (3) a change in interest rates affecting consumer spending; (4) automobile industry sales and production rates; (5) the loss of one or more significant customers, including our automotive customers; (6) model-year changeovers and customer acceptance in the automotive industry; (7) our ability to satisfy contract performance criteria; (8) availability of key components for the products we manufacture; (9) customer acceptance of our consumer and professional products; (10) fluctuations in currency exchange rates; (11) the outcome of pending or future litigation and other claims relating to our business, labor disputes at our facilities and those of our customers or common carriers; and (12) general economic conditions and other risks detailed in Harmans Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 and other filings made by Harman with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 


