FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20070509170027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     On May 9, 2007, Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") announced that Dinesh Paliwal will be appointed the Company's President, Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman effective July 1, 2007. He will also become a director of the Company at that time. Under a letter agreement dated May 8, 2007 (the "Letter Agreement"), Mr. Paliwal will be eligible to participate in the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "Supplemental Plan") and has entered into a change-in-control severance agreement (the "Severance Agreement"). The material terms of the Letter Agreement, the Supplemental Plan and the Severance Agreement are summarized below. This summary is qualified by reference to the Letter Agreement, Supplemental Plan and the Severance Agreement, copies of which are filed as exhibits to this report.
     Mr. Paliwal, age 49, has served since 2006 as President  Global Markets and Technologies of ABB Ltd., a provider of power equipment, systems and services and since 2004 as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ABB North America, an affiliate of ABB Ltd. Mr. Paliwal served since 2001 as a member of the ABB Group Executive Committee and headed the Automation Technologies division of ABB Ltd. from 2002 through 2005. Mr. Paliwal serves as a director of Embarq Corporation, a communications services company.
     
Letter Agreement
     Under the Letter Agreement, Mr. Paliwal's annual base salary will be $1,125,000 and he will be eligible to earn a maximum bonus equal to 200% of his base salary. In fiscal 2008, Mr. Paliwal will be guaranteed a bonus equal to 150% of his base salary. Mr. Paliwal will receive an additional bonus of $1,200,000 within five days of his start date.
     Mr. Paliwal will receive an option to purchase 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock at a per-share exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock on July 2, 2007. The option will vest 20% annually beginning one year from the date of grant. These options will be granted under the Company's 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan").
     Mr. Paliwal will also receive awards totaling 64,579 shares of restricted stock and 32,291 restricted share units on his start date. Of the 64,579 shares of restricted stock, 15,000 shares vest on July 1, 2010, 15,000 vest 20% annually beginning July 1, 2008, 5,169 vest on March 1, 2008, 5,418 vest on March 1, 2009 and 23,992 vest on March 1, 2010. The restricted share units vest on March 1, 2008, at which time Mr. Paliwal is entitled to a cash payment equal to the greater of the fair market value of the restricted share units or $3,875,000. Of the restricted stock awards, 15,000 shares will be issued under the 2002 Plan and 49,579 shares will be issued outside of the 2002 Plan.
     Mr. Paliwal will also be permitted to participate in the Company's employee benefit plans and programs. If Mr. Paliwal's employment is terminated by the Company without cause or by Mr. Paliwal for good reason, under circumstances in which he is not entitled to payment under the Severance Agreement, he will be entitled to (i) a severance payment equal to twice his
 
annual salary and target bonus, (ii) a prorated bonus, based on actual performance, for the fiscal year in which he is terminated, (iii) any unpaid bonus for the fiscal year preceding the year of termination, (iv) immediate vesting of a prorated number of unvested stock option awards and 48,575 shares of restricted stock granted pursuant to the Letter Agreement for the completed portion of the applicable vesting period, provided that the prorated number of the 48,575 shares of restricted stock will at a minimum be equal to 30,000 shares of restricted stock less any of the 48,575 shares of restricted stock that vested prior to termination of his employment and (v) immediate vesting of the remaining 16,004 shares of restricted stock and 32,291 restricted share units granted pursuant to the Letter Agreement.
     
Supplemental Plan
     In accordance with the Letter Agreement, Mr. Paliwal will be eligible to participate in the Company's Supplemental Plan. The Supplemental Plan provides supplemental retirement, termination and death benefits to certain of the Company's executive officers and key employees designated by the board of directors. All Supplemental Plan benefits are subject to deductions for Social Security and federal, state and local taxes.
     . Retirement benefits are based on the average of the participant's highest cash compensation (base salary and bonus) during any five consecutive years of employment ("Average Cash Compensation"). However, the Letter Agreement provides that beginning on January 1, 2009, Mr. Paliwal's Average Cash Compensation will be based on his cash compensation during any three consecutive years of employment if he terminates his own employment for good reason or if his employment is terminated by the Company without cause or due to death or disability. The Letter Agreement provides further that Mr. Paliwal's annual compensation recognized under his prior employer's retirement plan for 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 will be included in the determination of his Average Cash Compensation.
Retirement Benefit
     Participants retiring at age 65 or older receive an annual retirement benefit equal to either (a) 3 1/3% of Average Cash Compensation per year of service up to a maximum of 50%, or (b) 2% of Average Cash Compensation per year of service up to a maximum of 30%, as designated by the board of directors. Mr. Paliwal has been designated as a participant entitled to receive an annual retirement benefit of up to 50% of Average Cash Compensation. Under the Letter Agreement, Mr. Paliwal will immediately vest at the 50% level and will be fully vested in his retirement benefit at all times. Any retirement benefit payable to Mr. Paliwal or his beneficiary under the Supplemental Plan will be reduced by the amount he is entitled to receive under his prior employer's retirement plan.
     Unless another form of payment is approved by the administrative committee for the Supplemental Plan, benefits are payable monthly in the form of a life annuity. If the participant dies after benefits have commenced but prior to receiving 10 years of benefits, they are paid to the participant's beneficiary for the remainder of that period.
     . A participant who retires or whose employment is terminated prior to age 65 with at least 15 years of service, and who is not otherwise entitled to benefits under the Supplemental Plan, is entitled to an annual termination benefit equal to either (a) 30% of Average Cash Compensation, increased by 4% for each year of service over 15 years, up to a
Termination Benefit
 
maximum of 50%, or (b) 15% of Average Cash Compensation, increased by 3% for each year of service over 15 years, up to a maximum of 30%, as designated by the board of directors. Mr. Paliwal has been designated as a participant entitled to receive an annual termination benefit of up to 50% of Average Cash Compensation. Under the Letter Agreement, Mr. Paliwal will immediately vest at the 50% level. However, if Mr. Paliwal begins receiving payments under the Supplemental Plan before age 65, his retirement benefit with be actuarially reduced. The termination benefit commences upon the later of termination of the participant's employment, other than due to death, or the participant reaching age 55. Termination benefits are payable in the same manner as retirement benefits.
     . A pre-retirement death benefit equal to two or three times the highest annual cash compensation achieved by a participant during his or her employment with the Company is paid to the beneficiaries of a participant who dies prior to the commencement of benefits under the Supplemental Plan. Mr. Paliwal has been designated as a participant entitled to receive a death benefit equal to three times his highest annual cash compensation. The benefit is paid to the participant's designated beneficiary in a single lump sum.
Death Benefit
     
Severance Agreement
     The Severance Agreement with Mr. Paliwal provides that if, during the six months prior to or within two years following a change in control of the Company, Mr. Paliwal is terminated without cause or under certain circumstances terminates his own employment, or if he terminates his own employment for no reason during the thirteenth month following a change in control of the Company, he is entitled to receive a severance payment equal to three times the sum of his highest annual base salary during any period prior to his termination and his highest incentive pay during the three fiscal years preceding the change in control. The Severance Agreement also provides that the Company will pay Mr. Paliwal an additional amount for excise taxes. The Severance Agreement expires December 31, 2012. Thereafter, unless the Company or Mr. Paliwal has notified the other by the preceding September 30 that the Company or Mr. Paliwal, as appropriate, does not wish the agreement to be extended, the Severance Agreement will be automatically extended on the following January 1 for an additional year.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          (d) Exhibits.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 9, 2007

 
Exhibit 10.1
May 8, 2007
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal
Dear Dinesh:
On behalf of Harman International Industries, Incorporated (), I submit an offer for the position of President, Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of Harman. The Board of Directors of Harman () will use all reasonable efforts consistent with legal and NYSE listing requirements to appoint you as a member of the Board on your start date (defined below). In your capacity as President, Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of Harman, all staff and other functions of the Company shall report, directly or indirectly (through a subordinate of yours who reports directly to you), only to you and you will report directly to me so long as I remain Executive Chairman. If I cease for any reason to be Executive Chairman, you will report solely to the Board. Your principal place of employment will be an office we shall establish in the Stamford, Connecticut area and you will have a supplemental office available in our Washington, D.C. office when you travel there on business. The terms of this offer have been approved by the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board (the "Compensation Committee") and the full Board. This offer provides the following:
"Harman"
"Board"
1. : Your start date will be July 1, 2007, but your first day in the office will be Monday, July 2, 2007.
Start Date
2. . At any time during your service hereunder, you shall be entitled to serve on the board of directors of one outside public company; provided, however, that if you are appointed or elected to a second outside public company board, you may continue to serve on both boards for a limited transaction period; provided that, within four (4) months of the date on which you become a member of such second board, you resign from or otherwise cease to serve on one of the other outside public company boards on which you are then serving.
Outside Boards
3. : Your annual base salary will be $1,125,000, subject to annual review (for increase, but not decrease) commencing on the first anniversary of your start date, and payable in accordance with our regular payroll schedule. Your base salary as increased from time to time shall be referred to herein as .
Base Salary
"Base Salary"
4. : Within five business days after your start date, you will be paid a cash lump sum signing bonus in an aggregate amount of $1,200,000.
Signing Bonus
5. : Effective with fiscal year 2008, (i.e. the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2007), you will be eligible to participate in the Management Incentive Compensation program with a cash target bonus opportunity equal to 150% of your Base Salary and a maximum bonus of 200% of your Base Salary. This bonus program is based upon Harman's achievement of its business plan, as well as your achievement of individual performance goals. Your cash bonus for fiscal year 2008 will be guaranteed at no less than 150% of Base Salary with no pro ration if you start after July 1, 2007.
Bonus
 
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal May 8, 2007 Page 2
6. : On your start date, you will receive a one-time stock option award () of 100,000 shares of Harman common stock under the terms of Harman's 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan () at a per share exercise price equal to the fair market value of Harman common stock on your start date, vesting 20% per year over five years commencing on the first anniversary of your start date, with acceleration and other provisions as provided in the Plan and the grant. The Stock Option Award will have a ten (10) year term. The form of grant is annexed hereto as Exhibit A. You will also be eligible for an annual stock option grant under the Plan beginning in September 2008, at the good faith discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board, at a level commensurate with your position, but with a targeted stock option award of 50,000 shares (with the number of options adjusted in accordance with Section 10 of the Plan). The Stock Option Award will provide you with a right to reduce options to cover minimum required withholding and, if there has been a Change in Control (as defined in the Severance Agreement, as defined below), to pay the exercise price.
Stock Options
"Stock Option Award"
"Plan"
:
7.
Restricted Stock
     (a) On your start date, you will receive an award of 15,000 shares of restricted Harman common stock () under the Plan, vesting on July 1, 2010, provided that you are employed by Harman on that date or as otherwise provided in the form of grant annexed hereto as Exhibit B.
"Restricted Stock Award"
     (b) On your start date, you will receive an award of 33,575 shares of restricted Harman common stock as an inducement award (). Of the Inducement Stock Award, (i) 18,575 shares will vest on March 1, 2010, and (ii) 15,000 shares will vest 20% per year on each of the first 5 anniversaries of the date of grant; provided that you must be employed on the applicable date for the shares to so vest, or as otherwise provided in the form of grant annexed hereto as Exhibit C. The Inducement Stock Award is granted as an inducement grant outside of Harman's equity plans, and shall be registered via Form S-8 and listed with the NYSE, prior to your start date, or if Form S-8 is not available to permit the immediate sale of the Inducement Stock Award upon vesting, Harman will file a registration statement on Form S-3 at least 60 days before the first vesting date to permit you to sell these shares and, if the Company is then listed on the NYSE, list with the NYSE.
"Inducement Stock Award"
     (c) On your start date, you will receive 16,004 shares of restricted Harman common stock (). The Equity Replacement Award will vest as to 5,169 of the restricted shares on March 1, 2008, as to 5,418 on March 1, 2009, and as to 5,417 on March 1, 2010, provided that you are employed on such date for such respective shares to so vest and as otherwise provided in the form of grant annexed hereto as Exhibit D. The Equity Replacement Award is granted as an inducement grant outside of Harman's equity plans, and shall be registered via Form S-8 and listed with the NYSE, prior to your start date, or if Form S-8 is not available to permit the immediate sale of the Equity Replacement Reward upon vesting, Harman will file a registration statement on Form S-3 at least 60 days before the first vesting date to permit you to sell the shares and, if the Company is then listed on the NYSE, list with the NYSE.
"Equity Replacement Award"
 
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal May 8, 2007 Page 3
     (d) Each Award in (a), (b) and (c) above will provide you with a right to cover the minimum required tax withholding upon vesting by utilizing shares of the Restricted Stock Award or Inducement Stock Award if there has been a Change in Control (as defined in the Severance Agreement), at or prior to the vesting date.
8. . On your start date, you will receive an award of 32,291 restricted stock units (the ). The RSU Replacement Award will fully vest on March 1, 2008 and on such date you will be paid a cash amount equal to the greater of $3,875,000 or the fair market value of the 32,291 restricted stock units (with such fair market value determined in accordance with the definition of fair market value under the Plan or, if the Company is not then publicly traded, based on enterprise value with no discounts). The RSU Replacement Award will be in the form of Exhibit E attached hereto.
RSU Replacement Award
"RSU Replacement Award"
9. :
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
     (a) You will be eligible to participate in Harman's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and restated as of October 1, 1999, and as further amended effective September 24, 2002 (the "SERP"). Your annual age 65 single life annuity benefit with 120 months certain under the SERP () will be equal to 50% of the Average Compensation (as defined thereunder), provided that (i) for purposes of determining your Average Cash Compensation your compensation as recognized under your prior employer's SERP for 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 shall be taken into account as Compensation under the SERP, and (ii) your Compensation (as defined under the SERP) for 2007 shall be deemed to be the sum of your Base Salary and Target Bonus; provided, however, that if after the eighteen month anniversary of your start date, you die or incur a Disability, or your employment is terminated by Harman without Cause or by you for Good Reason, Average Compensation shall be based on the three consecutive calendar years in which your Compensation is highest (i.e., with Harman, taking into account (ii) above, or as recognized under your prior employer's SERP). Your Normal Retirement Benefit will be fully vested at all times.
"Normal Retirement Benefit"
     (b) Your Normal Retirement Benefit will be offset by the annual age 65 single life annuity benefit (actuarially adjusted to include a 120 months certain feature) at your prior employer accrued as of December 31, 2006 (a calculation of which has previously been provided by you to Harman) without regard to whether or not you receive it, or when it commences. Your Normal Retirement Benefit shall be actuarially adjusted to reflect the earlier commencement of your benefit hereunder based upon the actuarial factors currently set forth in the penultimate sentence of Section 5.06 of the SERP. The SERP obligation to you may not be terminated or reduced, or otherwise amended during your employment with Harman (notwithstanding any other provision of the SERP) without your prior written consent, except as required by law.
     (c) You will be credited with all years of service with your prior employer for purposes of determining your eligibility for the early commencement of benefits under the SERP.
 
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal May 8, 2007 Page 4
     (d) Your Pre-Retirement Death Benefit under the SERP will be equal to three times your highest Compensation, with Compensation for 2007 equal to the sum of your Base Salary and Target Bonus.
10. : You will have use of a company-leased automobile at the full sized luxury level, with a lease payment of approximately $2,500 per month. Harman will bear the car expenses (gasoline, insurance, car tax, repairs) associated with the business use of the company car. You may use the company car for private purposes, however taxes imposed with respect to private usage will be borne by you.
Company Car
i.e.,
11. : If your employment is terminated by Harman without Cause or by you for Good Reason (see definitions of "Cause" and "Good Reason" in the attachment), you will receive (i) a pro rata annual bonus for the fiscal year of termination based on actual performance (but with a 100% individual factor) and the portion of the fiscal year that you were employed, subject to any guarantee, and paid in the calendar year in which such fiscal year ends when bonuses are paid to other Harman executives but in any event prior to December 31 of such year (the "Pro Rata Bonus"); (ii) any unpaid bonus for the fiscal year preceding the year of termination based on actual performance for such year (but with a 100% individual factor if the bonuses for such year had not been determined for all Harman senior executives prior to such termination), subject to any guarantee, and paid in the calendar year in which the fiscal year ends when bonuses are paid to other Harman executives but in any event prior to December 31 of such year (the "Prior Year Bonus"); (iii) a severance payment equal to twice the sum of (X) your annual Base Salary at the time of your termination plus (Y) your target annual bonus at the time of your termination paid in a lump sum promptly after your termination, subject to "Delay" pursuant to the Section 409A Delay provision below. In addition, a prorated number of any unvested shares of your Restricted Stock Award, your Inducement Stock Award and your Stock Option Award (all based on the number of partial and completed months employed during the respective vesting periods) shall vest on such termination provided that no fewer than 30,000 shares of restricted stock (less any shares of such Restricted Stock Award or Inducement Stock Award previously vested) shall vest on such termination and your Equity Replacement Award and RSU Replacement Award will become fully vested and, in the case of the Equity Replacement Award, unrestricted (but the RSU Replacement Award shall still not be paid out until March 1, 2008). Such payments will be subject to the execution by you of a release in substantially the form annexed hereto as Exhibit F.
Severance
12. :
Change in Control
     (a) Simultaneous herewith Harman is entering into a severance agreement with you in the form of Exhibit G. The Severance Agreement will provide that the consummation of the transaction contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger among KHI Parent Inc., KHI Merger Sub Inc. and Harman International Industries, Incorporated, dated as of April 26, 2007 (the ), shall not constitute a Change in Control for purposes of your
"KKR Transaction"
 
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal May 8, 2007 Page 5
Severance Agreement; provided further that such Severance Agreement will not exempt the KKR Transaction from the excise tax gross-up provisions contained in Section 5 thereof.
     (b) Anything herein, or in any plan or agreement of Harman to the contrary notwithstanding (including, without limitation, your Stock Option Award, Restricted Stock Award, Inducement Stock Award, Equity Replacement Award and RSU Replacement Award agreements), the consummation of the KKR Transaction will be disregarded as a "Change in Control" under such plans and agreements except to the extent provided in the prior sentence.
13. : Additional benefits, as defined by Harman policies in effect from time to time applicable to other executive officers of Harman, will include medical, dental, vision, life insurance, short and long-term disability, tuition reimbursement for you, 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan, vacation (of at least four weeks), and all paid holidays. In addition, you will be provided with life insurance coverage (beside that under the SERP) of at least $3.5 million, accidental death and disability coverage of at least $3.5 million and long term disability coverage of at least sixty five percent of Base Salary.
Other Benefits
14. . On any termination of your employment you shall receive payment for any accrued but unpaid Base Salary, any accrued but unused vacations, reimbursements of any incurred but unreimbursed business expenses and any other amounts then due pursuant to the terms of any Company benefit or equity plan, program or payroll practice ("Accrued Amounts").
Accrued Amounts
15. . Upon your death while employed, your beneficiary or estate shall receive your Accrued Amounts, the Prior Year Bonus and the Pro Rata Bonus.
Death
16. . You shall be deemed to incur a "Disability" in the event you have been unable to perform your material duties for six (6) consecutive months as a result of physical or mental incapacity ("Disability"). During your incapacity, prior to your termination for Disability you shall be entitled to compensation and benefits as if you were actively at work, provided, however, that the Board may temporarily assign your duties to other executives during the period of your incapacity without it being deemed "Good Reason." Your employment shall automatically terminate at the end of such six (6) month period unless you and the Company agree otherwise. Upon any such termination you shall receive your Accrued Amounts, your Pro Rata Bonus and your Prior Year Bonus.
Disability
17. . The Company shall promptly reimburse your reasonable businesses expenses incurred in performing your duties upon presentation of documentation in accordance with Company policy. Travel for business purposes shall be on the same basis as permitted for the Executive Chairman. Connecticut shall be treated as your primary business location and any travel away from there shall be treated as a business trip. You shall have no after tax cost for any business expense or reimbursement thereof.
Business Expenses
18. : To the extent that there is a material risk that any payments under this letter, the Severance Agreement or any grant may result in the imposition of an additional tax to you under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A (), Harman will
Code Section 409A
"Section 409A"
 
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal May 8, 2007 Page 6
reasonably cooperate with you to amend this letter and related documents such that such documents and payments thereunder comply with Section 409A without materially changing the economic value of this letter or the arrangements hereunder to either party.
19. . If you are at the time of your separation from service with Harman (other than as a result of your death) a "Specified Employee", as such term is defined under Section 409A, any payment due to you hereunder that indicates it is subject to the Section 409A Delay shall be delayed until the earlier of your death or six (6) months after your separation from service (as defined under Section 409A) and shall then be promptly paid to you in a lump sum, together with interest for the period of delay, compounded annually, equal to the prime rate (as published in the Wall Street Journal) in effect as of the date the payment should otherwise have been provided.
Section 409A Delay
20. : Whether or not you accept this offer, Harman will pay the reasonable legal fees and disbursements relating to the negotiation and documentation of your employment arrangements with Harman and any negotiations with any acquirer or proposed acquirer of Harman with respect to such acquisition or proposed acquisition and any continued employment arrangements therewith promptly upon presentation of invoices therefor and, to the extent such amount would be taxable to you, pay you an additional amount at such time so that you would have no after tax cost.
Legal Fees
21. . Harman will, in connection with your employment, withhold from any compensation and benefits payable to you all federal, state, city or other taxes as Harman is required to withhold pursuant to any law or government regulation or ruling.
Miscellaneous
You shall not be required to mitigate Harman's obligations under Section 10 by seeking other employment. The payments due to you under Section 10 shall not be subject to offset by any remuneration received from a subsequent employer. There shall be no offset against amounts or benefits due you under this Agreement or otherwise on account of any claim Harman may have against you.
This Agreement may not be assigned by Harman except to an acquirer of all or substantially all of its assets and then only if such acquirer promptly delivers to you a written assumption of Harman's obligations hereunder.
Harman shall indemnify and hold you harmless (including advancement of legal fees) to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law with regard to any actions or inactions as an officer or director of Harman or any other entity at its request or as a fiduciary of any benefit plan. In addition, Harman shall cause you to be covered under any directors and officers or fiduciary liability policy it maintains with regard to the indemnification. The obligations hereunder shall survive any termination of your service in any such role for so long as liability exists with regard to such period of service.
Harman is not hereby offering you lifetime employment or employment for a fixed or implied period of time. Either you or Harman may terminate your employment at any time, with or
 
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal May 8, 2007 Page 7
without cause or reason. Your employment relationship cannot be changed except in a written document signed by you and the Executive Chairman of Harman (or other Board member or Harman officers designated by the Board).
Any dispute concerning termination of your employment, this Agreement, or any related document shall be resolved by final and binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator. The arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement or in accordance with the procedures of the American Arbitration Association and the commercial arbitration rules of the American Arbitrators Association shall apply. Such arbitration shall be conducted in Stamford, Connecticut. The law of Delaware (other than its conflict of laws rules) shall govern any such dispute, and the arbitrator shall not have authority to vary or alter the terms of this letter. In the event the arbitrator determines that you are the prevailing party in any arbitration, Harman shall promptly pay your legal fees and disbursements incurred in connection therewith, as well as all costs of the AAA and the arbitrator.
You acknowledge and agree that your acceptance of this offer will violate no agreements or arrangements with any other individuals or entities, or duties to your current employer. Harman represents that this offer and the documents related hereto have been approved by all persons or bodies whose action is required and when accepted by you will be fully binding on Harman. The parties acknowledge that it is intended that the Executive Chairman remain the "principal executive officer" as such term is defined under Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 until after the Form 10-K is filed for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007 and until such filing is completed, the Executive Chairman shall retain and utilize such authority and control as is necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Harman represents and warrants that the financial statements of Harman filed with the SEC for, or during, the 2005, 2006 and 2007 fiscal years are true and correct in all material respects.
 
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal May 8, 2007 Page 8
Please sign and return the original of this letter. You should retain one copy of this letter for your files.
I look forward to working with you and to our shared further development of this outstanding company.
I accept your offer of employment and agree to the provisions stated in this letter. I acknowledge and agree that this letter and the other documents referred to herein constitutes the entire agreement between Harman and me and supersedes all prior verbal or written agreements, arrangements or understandings pertaining to my offer of employment. I understand that I am employed at will and that my employment can be terminated at any time, with or without cause, at the option of either Harman or me.
 
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal May 8, 2007 Page 9
means:
"Cause"
No act or omission on your part shall be considered unless it is done by you in bad faith and without reasonable belief that your action was in the best interests of Harman.
"willful"
The foregoing notwithstanding, Harman may not terminate your employment for Cause unless: (x) a determination that Cause exists is made and approved by three-quarters (3/4) of Harman's Board (excluding you), (y) you are given at least 10 days prior written notice of the Board meeting called to make such determination, and (z) you and your legal counsel are given the opportunity to address such meeting prior to a vote of the Board.
means any of the following without your prior written consent:
"Good Reason"
 
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal May 8, 2007 Page 10
Provided that you must provide written notice to Harman of the existence of the Good Reason no later than 90 days after its initial existence and Harman shall have a period of 30 days following its receipt of your written notice during which it may remedy in all materials respects the Good Reason condition identified in such written notice; and you must terminate your employment with Harman no less than 1 year following the initial existence of the Good Reason condition identified in such written notice.
 
     Harman International Industries, Incorporated, its affiliates, subsidiaries, divisions, successors and assigns in such capacity, and the current, future and former employees, officers, directors, trustees and agents thereof (collectively referred to throughout this Agreement as "") and Dinesh Paliwal, his heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns (collectively referred to throughout this Agreement as "") agree:
Employer
Employee
     1. . Employee's last day of employment with Employer is DATE. In addition, effective as of DATE, Employee resigns from his position as President, Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of Harman International Industries, Incorporated, and will not be eligible for any benefits or compensation after DATE, other than as specifically provided in Paragraph 10 of the letter agreement between the Employer and Employee, dated as of May 8, 2007 (the ""), in the Severance Agreement between the Employer and Employee, dated as of May 8, 2007 (the "") to the extent that it becomes applicable, and his right to indemnification and directors and officers liability insurance. Employee further acknowledges and agrees that, after DATE, he will not represent himself as being a director, employee, officer, trustee, agent or representative of the Employer for any purpose. In addition, effective as of DATE, Employee resigns from all offices, directorships, trusteeships, committee memberships and fiduciary capacities held with, or on behalf of, the Employer or any benefit plans of the Employer. These resignations will become irrevocable as set forth in Section 3 below.
Last Day of Employment
Letter Agreement
Severance Agreement
     2. . The parties acknowledge that this General Release is being executed in accordance with Section 10 of the Letter Agreement.
Consideration
     3. . Employee may revoke this General Release for a period of seven (7) calendar days following the day he executes this General Release. Any revocation within this period must be submitted, in writing, to Employer and state, "I hereby revoke my acceptance of our General Release." The revocation must be personally delivered to the Company's Chief Legal Officer, or his/her designee, or mailed to Employer, 1101 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 1010, Washington, D. C. 20004, and postmarked within seven (7) calendar days of execution of this General Release. This General Release shall not become effective or enforceable until the revocation period has expired. If the last day of the revocation period is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday in Washington, D.C., then the revocation period shall not expire until the next following day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
Revocation
     4. . Employee knowingly and voluntarily releases and forever discharges Employer from any and all claims, causes of action, demands, fees and liabilities of any kind whatsoever, whether known and unknown, against Employer, Employee has, has ever had or may have as of the date of execution of this General Release, including, but not limited to, any alleged violation of:
General Release of Claim
 
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the sole matters to which the General Release do not apply are: (i) the Employee's rights of indemnification and
 
directors and officers liability insurance coverage to which he was entitled immediately prior to DATE with regard to his service as an officer and director of the Employer (including, without limitation, under Paragraph 20 of the Letter Agreement); (ii) the Employee's rights under any tax-qualified pension or claims for accrued vested benefits under any other employee benefit plan, policy or arrangement maintained by the Employer or under COBRA; (iii) the Employee's rights under the provisions of the Letter Agreement, the Severance Agreement, and documents referred to in either of such agreements, which are intended to survive termination of employment; (iv) the Severance Agreement to the extent that it becomes applicable; or (v) the Employee's rights as a stockholder.
     5. . Employee waives his right to file any charge or complaint against Employer arising out of his employment with or separation from Employer before any federal, state or local court or any state or local administrative agency, except where such waivers are prohibited by law. This Release, however, does not prevent Employee from filing a charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, any other federal government agency, and/or any government agency concerning claims of discrimination, although Employee waives his right to recover any damages or other relief in any claim or suit brought by or through the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any other state or local agency on behalf of Employee under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act, or any other federal or state discrimination law, except where such waivers are prohibited by law.
No Claims Permitted
     6. . Employee affirms he has not filed, has not caused to be filed, and is not presently a party to, any claim, complaint, or action against Employer in any forum or form. Employee further affirms that he has been paid and/or has received all compensation, wages, bonuses, commissions, and/or benefits to which he may be entitled and no other compensation, wages, bonuses, commissions and/or benefits are due to him, except as provided in Paragraph 10 of the Letter Agreement. Employee also affirms he has no known workplace injuries.
Affirmations
     7. . Employee agrees to reasonably cooperate with the Employer and its counsel in connection with any investigation, administrative proceeding or litigation relating to any matter that occurred during his employment in which he was involved or of which he has knowledge. The Employer will reimburse the Employee for any reasonable out-of-pocket travel, delivery or similar expenses incurred in providing such service to the Employer. Employee represents that he has returned to the Employer all property belonging to the Employer, including but not limited to any leased vehicle, laptop, cell phone, keys, access cards, phone cards and credit cards, provided that the Executive may retain, and the Company shall cooperate in transferring, his cell phone number, his rolodex and other address books.
Cooperation; Return of Property
     8. . This General Release shall be governed and conformed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to its conflict of laws provision. In the event Employee or Employer breaches any provision of this General Release, Employee and Employer affirm either may institute an
Governing Law and Interpretation
 
action to specifically enforce any term or terms of this General Release. Should any provision of this General Release be declared illegal or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction and should the provision be incapable of being modified to be enforceable, such provision shall immediately become null and void, leaving the remainder of this General Release in full force and effect. Nothing herein, however, shall operate to void or nullify any general release language contained in the General Release.
     9. . Employee agrees neither this General Release nor the furnishing of the consideration for this Release shall be deemed or construed at any time for any purpose as an admission by Employer of any liability or unlawful conduct of any kind.
Nonadmission of Wrongdoing
     10. . This General Release may not be modified, altered or changed except upon express written consent of both parties wherein specific reference is made to this General Release.
Amendment
     11. . This General Release sets forth the entire agreement between the parties hereto and fully supersedes any prior agreements or understandings between the parties; provided, however, that notwithstanding anything in this General Release, the provisions in the Letter Agreement, the Severance Agreement, and the documents referred to in either of such agreements which are intended to survive termination of the Letter Agreement shall survive and continue in full force and effect. Employee acknowledges he has not relied on any representations, promises, or agreements of any kind made to him in connection with his decision to accept this General Release.
Entire Agreement
     EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN ADVISED THAT HE HAS UP TO TWENTY-ONE (21) CALENDAR DAYS TO REVIEW THIS GENERAL RELEASE AND HAS BEEN ADVISED IN WRITING TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY PRIOR TO EXECUTION OF THIS GENERAL RELEASE.
     EMPLOYEE AGREES ANY MODIFICATIONS, MATERIAL OR OTHERWISE, MADE TO THIS GENERAL RELEASE DO NOT RESTART OR AFFECT IN ANY MANNER THE ORIGINAL TWENTY-ONE (21) CALENDAR DAY CONSIDERATION PERIOD.
     HAVING ELECTED TO EXECUTE THIS GENERAL RELEASE, TO FULFILL THE PROMISES SET FORTH HEREIN, AND TO RECEIVE THE SUMS AND BENEFITS SET FORTH IN THE LETTER AGREEMENT, EMPLOYEE FREELY AND KNOWINGLY, AND AFTER DUE CONSIDERATION, ENTERS INTO THIS GENERAL RELEASE INTENDING TO WAIVE, SETTLE AND RELEASE ALL CLAIMS HE HAS OR MIGHT HAVE AGAINST EMPLOYER.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto knowingly and voluntarily executed this General Release as of the date set forth below:

 
Exhibit 10.2
     THIS SEVERANCE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), dated as of May 8, 2007, is made and entered by and between Harman International Industries, Incorporated ("Harman" or, including any successor thereto, the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, and Dinesh Paliwal (the "Executive").
     WHEREAS, the Executive is or will be a senior executive of Harman, and is expected to make major contributions to the Company's short and long-term profitability, growth and financial strength;
     WHEREAS, Harman recognizes that: (a) top-quality executives may seek more secure career opportunities if a Change in Control, as defined below, occurs in the future; and (b) the Company may encounter difficulties in recruiting qualified senior executives unless it offers an employment security arrangement, applicable in Change in Control situations;
     WHEREAS, Harman desires to assure itself of both present and future continuity of management and desires to establish certain minimum severance benefits for certain of its senior executives, including the Executive, applicable in the event of a Change in Control;
     WHEREAS, Harman wishes to ensure that its senior executives are not practically disabled from discharging their duties in respect of a proposed or actual transaction involving a Change in Control; and
     WHEREAS, Harman desires to provide additional inducement for the Executive to continue to remain in the Company's employ.
     NOW, THEREFORE, Harman and the Executive agree as follows:
     1. . In addition to terms defined elsewhere in this Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings:
Certain Defined Terms
          (a) "Base Pay" means the Executive's annual base salary rate as in effect from time to time;
          (b) "Board" means Harman's Board of Directors;
          (c) "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in Executive's employment letter dated May 8, 2007.
          (d) "Change in Control" means the occurrence during the Term of any of the following events:
          (i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 1(d)(i), the following
 
acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any issuance of Voting Stock of the Company directly from the Company that is approved by the Incumbent Board (as defined in Section 1(d)(ii), below), (B) any acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of Voting Stock of the Company, (C) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, or (D) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company by any Person pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 1(d)(iii), below; or
          (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a Director after the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) shall be deemed to have been a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a-11 of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
          (iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or other transaction (each, a "Business Combination"), unless, in each case, immediately following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the entity resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (B) no Person (other than the Company, such entity resulting from such Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company, any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the entity resulting from such Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the entity resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Combination; or
          (iv) approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, except pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 1(d)(iii).
 
          (v) Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, the consummation of the Agreement and Plan of Merger among KHI Parent Inc., KHI Merger Sub Inc. and Harman International Industries, Incorporated, dated April 26, 2007 (the "KKR Transaction") shall not constitute a Change in Control.
          (e) "Committee" means the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board or such similar committee of the Board comprised of non-officer directors and responsible for executive compensation matters of the Company generally;
          (f) "Competitive Activity" means the Executive's participation, without the Company's written consent, in the management of any business enterprise if such enterprise engages in substantial and direct competition with the Company or a Subsidiary and the enterprise's sales of any product or service under the Executive's supervision competitive with any product or service of the Company or a Subsidiary amounted to 10% of the enterprise's net sales under the Executive's supervision for its most recently completed fiscal year and if the Company's and its Subsidiary's net sales of said product or service amounted to 10% of the Company's net sales for its most recently completed fiscal year. "Competitive Activity" will not include (i) the mere ownership of securities in any such enterprise and the exercise of rights appurtenant thereto or (ii) participation in the management of any such enterprise other than in connection with the competitive operations of such enterprise;
          (g) "Employee Benefits" means the perquisites, benefits and service credit for benefits as provided under any and all employee retirement income and welfare benefit policies, plans, programs or arrangements in which Executive is entitled to participate, including without limitation any stock option, performance share, performance unit, stock purchase, stock appreciation, savings, pension, supplemental executive retirement, or other retirement income or welfare benefit, deferred compensation, incentive compensation, group or other life, health, medical/hospital or other insurance (whether funded by actual insurance or self-insured by the Company or a Subsidiary), disability, salary continuation, expense reimbursement and other employee benefit policies, plans, programs or arrangements that may now exist or any equivalent successor policies, plans, programs or arrangements that may be adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary, providing perquisites, benefits and service credit for benefits at least as great in the aggregate as are payable thereunder prior to a Change in Control;
          (h) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time;
          (i) "Incentive Pay" means an annual bonus, incentive or other payment of compensation, in addition to Base Pay, made or to be made in regard to services rendered in any year or other period pursuant to any bonus, incentive, profit-sharing, performance, discretionary pay or similar agreement, policy, plan, program or arrangement (whether or not funded) of the Company or a Subsidiary, or any successor thereto;
          (j) "Retirement Plans" means the retirement income, supplemental executive retirement, excess benefits and retiree medical, life and similar benefit plans providing retirement perquisites, benefits and service credit for benefits at least as great in the aggregate as are payable thereunder prior to a Change in Control;
 
          (k) "Severance Period" means the period of time commencing six (6) months prior to the date of the first occurrence of a Change in Control and continuing until the earlier of (i) the second anniversary of the occurrence of the Change in Control, or (ii) the Executive's death; provided, however, that commencing on each anniversary of the Change in Control, the Severance Period will automatically be extended for an additional year unless, not later than 90 calendar days before the anniversary date, either the Company or the Executive shall have given written notice to the other that the Severance Period is not to be so extended.
          (l) "Subsidiary" means an entity in which the Company, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns 50% or more of the outstanding Voting Stock;
          (m) "Term" means the period commencing as of the date hereof and expiring as of the later of (i) the close of business on December 31, 2012, or (ii) the expiration of the Severance Period. However, commencing on January 1, 2012 and each January 1 thereafter, the term of this Agreement will automatically be extended for an additional year unless, not later than September 30 of the immediately preceding year, the Company or the Executive shall have given notice that it or the Executive, as the case may be, does not wish to have the Term extended. Furthermore, if, prior to the date which is six (6) months prior to a Change in Control, the Executive ceases for any reason to be an officer of the Company or any Subsidiary, thereupon without further action the Term shall be deemed to have expired and this Agreement will immediately terminate and be of no further effect. For purposes of this Section, the Executive shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an officer of the Company and any Subsidiary by reason of the transfer of Executive's employment between the Company and any Subsidiary, or among any Subsidiaries;
          (n) "Termination Date" means the date on which the Executive's employment is terminated (the effective date of which shall be the date of termination, or such other date that may be specified by the Executive if the termination is pursuant to Section 3(b)); and
          (o) "Voting Stock" means securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
          2. . This Agreement will be effective and binding immediately upon its execution, but, except for Section 5 (Certain Additional Payments By The Company) (which shall be effective upon execution), anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, this Agreement will not be operative unless and until the date which is six (6) months prior to a Change in Control occurs. If a Change in Control occurs at any time during the Term, this Agreement shall become operative immediately and retroactively including without limitation, notwithstanding that the Term may have since expired.
Operation of Agreement
          3. .
Termination Following a Change in Control
          (a) In the event of the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Executive's employment may be terminated by the Company or a Subsidiary during the Severance Period and the Executive shall be entitled to the benefits provided by Section 4 as a result thereof or any termination within six (6) months prior to a Change in Control unless such termination is the result of the occurrence of one or more of the following events:
 
          (i) The Executive's death;
          (ii) The Executive becoming permanently disabled within the meaning of, and begins actually receiving disability benefits pursuant to, the long-term disability plan in effect for, or applicable to, Executive immediately prior to the Change in Control; and has been deemed to incur a Disability pursuant to the letter agreement dated May 8, 2007 (the "Employment Agreement").
          (iii) Cause.
If, during the Severance Period, the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company or any Subsidiary other than pursuant to Section 3(a)(i), 3(a)(ii) or 3(a)(iii), the Executive will be entitled to the benefits provided by Section 4 hereof.
          (b) In the event of the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Executive may terminate employment with the Company and any Subsidiary during the Severance Period with the right to severance compensation as provided in Section 4 upon the occurrence of one or more of the following events (regardless of whether any other reason, other than Cause, for such termination exists or has occurred, including without limitation other employment) and shall also have such severance compensation in the event he had terminated within six (6) months prior to the Change in Control for Good Reason (as defined in the Employment Agreement):
          (i) Failure to elect or reelect or otherwise to maintain the Executive in the office or the position, or a substantially equivalent office or position, of or with the Company and/or a Subsidiary (or any successor thereto by operation of law or otherwise), as the case may be, which the Executive held immediately prior to a Change in Control, or the removal of the Executive as a Director of the Company and/or a Subsidiary (or any successor thereto) if the Executive shall have been a Director of the Company and/or a Subsidiary immediately prior to the Change in Control;
          (ii) (A) A significant adverse change in the nature or scope of the authorities, powers, functions, responsibilities or duties attached to the position with the Company and any Subsidiary which the Executive held immediately prior to the Change in Control, (B) a reduction in the aggregate of the Executive's Base Pay and Incentive Pay received from the Company and any Subsidiary, or (C) the termination or denial of the Executive's rights to Employee Benefits or a reduction in the scope or value thereof, any of which is not remedied by the Company within 10 calendar days after receipt by the Company of written notice from the Executive of such change, reduction or termination, as the case may be;
          (iii) A determination by the Executive (which determination will be conclusive and binding upon the parties to this Agreement, provided that the determination has been made in good faith and in all events will be presumed to have been made in good faith unless otherwise shown by the Company by clear and convincing evidence) that a change in circumstances has occurred following a Change in Control, including, without limitation, a change in the scope of the business or other activities for which the Executive was responsible immediately prior to the Change in
 
Control, which has rendered the Executive substantially unable to carry out, has substantially hindered Executive's performance of, or has caused Executive to suffer a substantial reduction in, any of the authorities, powers, functions, responsibilities or duties attached to the position held by the Executive immediately prior to the Change in Control, which situation is not remedied within 10 calendar days after the Company receives written notice from the Executive of such determination;
          (iv) The liquidation, dissolution, merger, consolidation or reorganization of the Company or transfer of all or substantially all of its business and/or assets, unless the successor or successors (by liquidation, merger, consolidation, reorganization, transfer or otherwise) to which all or substantially all of its business and/or assets have been transferred (by operation of law or otherwise) assumed all duties and obligations of the Company under this Agreement pursuant to Section 11(a);
          (v) The Company relocates its principal executive offices (if such offices are the principal location of Executive's work), or requires the Executive to have his principal location of work changed, to any location that, in either case, is in excess of 50 miles from the principal executive office's location immediately prior to the Change in Control, or requires the Executive to travel away from his office in the course of discharging his responsibilities or duties at least 20% more (in terms of aggregate days in any calendar year or in any calendar quarter when annualized for purposes of comparison to any prior year) than was required of Executive in any of the three full years immediately prior to the Change in Control without, in either case, his prior written consent;
          (vi) For any reason, or no reason during the thirteenth calendar month following the Change in Control;
          (vii) Any reason that is Good Reason under the Employment Agreement;
          (viii) Without limiting the generality or effect of the foregoing, any material breach of this Agreement by the Company or any successor thereto which is not remedied by the Company within 10 calendar days after receipt by the Company of written notice from the Executive of such breach.
          (c) A termination by the Company pursuant to Section 3(a) or by the Executive pursuant to Section 3(b) will not affect any rights that the Executive may have pursuant to any agreement, policy, plan, program or arrangement of the Company or any Subsidiary providing Employee Benefits, which rights shall be governed by the terms thereof; provided that the Executive shall not be entitled to severance pay under the Employment Agreement if entitled to it hereunder and any such amounts received thereunder shall be offset against the amounts hereunder.
     4. .
Severance Compensation
          (a) If the Company or Subsidiary terminates the Executive's employment during the Severance Period other than pursuant to Section 3(a)(i), 3(a)(ii) or 3(a)(iii), or if the
 
Executive terminates his employment pursuant to Section 3(b), the Company will pay to the Executive, subject to Section 18 hereof as to the Section 409A Delay, the amounts described in Sections 1 and 4 of Annex A within five business days after the Termination Date and will continue to provide to the Executive the benefits described in Sections 2 and 3 of Annex A for the periods described therein.
          (b) Without limiting the rights of the Executive at law or in equity, if the Company fails to make any payment or provide any benefit required to be made or provided under this Agreement on a timely basis, the Company will pay interest on the amount or value thereof at an annualized rate of interest equal to the so-called composite "prime rate" as quoted from time to time during the relevant period in The Wall Street Journal , plus 2%. Such interest will be payable as it accrues on demand. Any change in such prime rate will be effective on and as of the date of such change.
          (c) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the parties' respective rights and obligations under this Section 4 and under Sections 5, 7, 8 and the last sentence of Section 9 will survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement or the termination of the Executive's employment following a Change in Control for any reason whatsoever.
     5. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
          (a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event that it shall be determined (as hereafter provided) that any payment (other than the Gross-Up payments provided for in this Section 5) or distribution by the Company or any of its affiliates to or for the benefit of the Executive, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable under the terms of this Agreement or otherwise pursuant to or by reason of any other agreement, policy, plan, program or arrangement, including without limitation any stock option, performance share, performance unit, stock appreciation right or similar right, or the lapse or termination of any restriction on or the vesting or exercisability of any of the foregoing (a "Payment"), would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") (or any successor provision thereto) by reason of being considered "contingent on a change in ownership or control" of the Company, within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code (or any successor provision thereto) or to any similar tax imposed by state or local law, or any interest or penalties with respect to such tax (such tax or taxes, together with any such interest and penalties, being hereafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive, and the Company shall be required to pay, an additional payment or payments (collectively, a "Gross-Up Payment"); provided, however, that no Gross-up Payment shall be made with respect to the Excise Tax, if any, attributable to (i) any incentive stock option, as defined by Section 422 of the Code ("ISO") granted prior to the execution of this Agreement, or (ii) any stock appreciation or similar right, whether or not limited, granted in tandem with any ISO described in clause (i). The Gross-Up Payment shall be in an amount such that, after payment by the Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment.
 
          (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 5(f), all determinations required to be made under this Section 5, including whether an Excise Tax is payable by the Executive and the amount of such Excise Tax and whether a Gross-Up Payment is required to be paid by the Company to the Executive and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, if any, shall be made by a nationally recognized accounting firm (the "Accounting Firm") selected by the Executive in his sole discretion. The Executive shall direct the Accounting Firm to submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to both the Company and the Executive within 30 calendar days after the Termination Date, if applicable, and any such other time or times as may be requested by the Company or the Executive. If the Accounting Firm determines that any Excise Tax is payable by the Executive, the Company shall pay the required Gross-Up Payment to the Executive within five business days after receipt of such determination and calculations with respect to any Payment to the Executive. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by the Executive, it shall, at the same time as it makes such determination, furnish the Company and the Executive an opinion that the Executive has substantial authority not to report any Excise Tax on his federal, state or local income or other tax return. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code (or any successor provision thereto) and the possibility of similar uncertainty regarding applicable state or local tax law at the time of any determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made (an "Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts or fails to pursue its remedies pursuant to Section 5(f) and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Executive shall direct the Accounting Firm to determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and to submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to both the Company and the Executive as promptly as possible. Any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to, or for the benefit of, the Executive within five business days after receipt of such determination and calculations.
          (c) The Company and the Executive shall each provide the Accounting Firm access to and copies of any books, records and documents in the possession of the Company or the Executive, as the case may be, reasonably requested by the Accounting Firm, and otherwise cooperate with the Accounting Firm in connection with the preparation and issuance of the determinations and calculations contemplated by Section 5(b). Any determination by the Accounting Firm as to the amount of the Gross-Up Payment shall be binding upon the Company and the Executive.
          (d) The federal, state and local income or other tax returns filed by the Executive shall be prepared and filed on a consistent basis with the determination of the Accounting Firm with respect to the Excise Tax payable by the Executive. The Executive shall make proper payment of the amount of any Excise Tax, and at the request of the Company, provide to the Company true and correct copies (with any amendments) of the applicable portions of his federal income tax return as filed with the Internal Revenue Service and corresponding state and local tax returns, if relevant, as filed with the applicable taxing authority, and such other documents reasonably requested by the Company, evidencing such payment. If prior to the filing of the Executive's federal income tax return, or corresponding state or local tax return, if relevant, the Accounting Firm determines that the amount of the Gross-Up Payment should be reduced, the Executive shall within five business days pay to the Company the amount of such reduction.
 
          (e) The fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm for its services in connection with the determinations and calculations contemplated by Section 5(b) shall be borne by the Company. If such fees and expenses are initially paid by the Executive, the Company shall reimburse the Executive the full amount of such fees and expenses within five business days after receipt from the Executive of a statement therefor and reasonable evidence of Executive's payment thereof.
          (f) The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of a Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as promptly as practicable but no later than 10 business days after the Executive actually receives notice of such claim and the Executive shall further apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid (in each case, to the extent known by the Executive). The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the earlier of (i) the expiration of the 30-calendar-day period following the date on which he gives such notice to the Company and (ii) the date that any payment of amount with respect to such claim is due. If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:
          (i) provide the Company with any written records or documents in his possession relating to such claim reasonably requested by the Company;
          (ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including without imitation accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney competent in respect of the subject matter and reasonably selected by the Company;
          (iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim; and
          (iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold harmless the Executive, on an after-tax basis, for and against any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto, imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 5(f), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with the contest of any claim contemplated by this Section 5(f) and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim (provided, however, that the Executive may participate therein at his own cost and expense) and may, at its option, either direct the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs the Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to
 
the Executive on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income or other tax, including interest or penalties with respect thereto, imposed with respect to such advance; and provided further, however, that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which the contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of any such contested claim shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
          (g) If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 5(f), the Executive receives any refund with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of Section 5(f)), promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after any taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 5(f), a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial or refund prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of any such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid by the Company to the Executive pursuant to this Section 5.
          (h) In the event any obligation of the Executive to repay any amounts due hereunder would be a violation of the "loan" provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, such obligation shall be treated as null and void ab initio.
          (i) For the avoidance of any doubt, the Company's obligations to Executive under this Section 5 remain in full force and effect with respect to the KKR Transaction regardless of Executive's agreement to exclude the KKR Transaction from the definition of Change in Control hereunder.
     6. . The Company hereby acknowledges that it will be difficult and may be impossible for the Executive to find reasonably comparable employment following the Termination Date and that the non-competition covenant contained in Section 8 will further limit the employment opportunities for the Executive. In addition, the Company acknowledges that its severance pay plans applicable in general to its salaried employees do not provide for mitigation, offset or reduction of any severance payment received thereunder. Accordingly, the payment of the severance compensation by the Company to the Executive in accordance with the terms of this Agreement is hereby acknowledged by the Company to be reasonable, and the Executive will not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor will any profits, income, earnings or other benefits from any source whatsoever create any mitigation, offset, reduction or any other obligation on the part of the Executive under this agreement or otherwise, except as expressly provided in the last sentence of Paragraph 2 set forth on Annex A.
No Mitigation Obligation
 
     7. .
Legal Fees and Expenses
          (a) The Executive shall not be required to incur legal fees and the related expenses associated with the interpretation, enforcement or defense of Executive's rights under this Agreement by litigation or otherwise because such costs substantially would detract from the Executive's benefits under this Agreement. Accordingly, if it should appear to the Executive that the Company has failed to comply with any of its obligations under this Agreement or in the event that the Company or any other person takes or threatens to take any action to declare this Agreement void or unenforceable, or institutes any litigation or other action or proceeding designed to deny, or to recover from, the Executive the benefits provided or intended to be provided to the Executive hereunder, the Company irrevocably authorizes the Executive from time to time to retain counsel of Executive's choice, at the expense of the Company as hereafter provided, to advise and represent the Executive in connection with any such interpretation, enforcement or defense, including without limitation the initiation or defense of any litigation or other legal action, whether by or against the Company or any Director, officer, stockholder or other person affiliated with the Company, in any jurisdiction. Notwithstanding any existing or prior attorney-client relationship between the Company and such counsel, the Company irrevocably consents to the Executive's entering into an attorney-client relationship with such counsel, and in that connection the Company and the Executive agree that a confidential relationship shall exist between the Executive and such counsel. Without respect to whether the Executive prevails, in whole or in part, in connection with any of the foregoing, the Company will pay and be solely financially responsible for any and all attorneys' and related fees and expenses incurred by the Executive in connection with any of the foregoing. However, if the Executive brings an action in bad faith, or with no colorable claim of success, the Company shall not pay for any of Executive's attorneys' fees or related expenses.
          (b) Without limiting the obligations of the Company under Section 7(a) of this Agreement, in the event a Change in Control occurs, the performance of the Company's obligations under this Section 7 shall be secured by amounts deposited or to be deposited in trust pursuant to certain trust agreements to which the Company shall be a party, which amounts deposited shall in the aggregate be not less than $1,000,000, providing that the fees and expenses of counsel selected from time to time by the Executive pursuant to Section 7(a) shall be paid, or reimbursed to the Executive if paid by the Executive, either in accordance with the terms of such trust agreements, or, if not so provided, on a regular, periodic basis upon presentation by the Executive to the trustee of a statement or statements prepared by such counsel in accordance with its customary practices. Any failure by the Company to satisfy any of its obligations under this Section 7(b) shall not limit the rights of the Executive hereunder. Subject to the foregoing, the Executive shall have the status of a general unsecured creditor of the Company and shall have no right to, or security interest in, any assets of the Company or any Subsidiary.
     8. .
Competitive Activity; Confidentiality; Nonsolicitation
          (a) For a period ending one year following the Termination Date, if the Executive shall have received or shall be receiving benefits under Section 4, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, engage in any Competitive Activity; provided that the foregoing shall not apply if the
 
          Termination Date was prior to the Change in Control and Executive had already commenced such activity.
          (b) During the Term, the Company agrees that it will disclose to Executive its confidential or proprietary information (as defined in this Section 8(b)) to the extent necessary for Executive to carry out his obligations to the Company. The Executive hereby covenants and agrees that he will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, during the Term or thereafter disclose to any person not employed by the Company, or use in connection with engaging in competition with the Company, any confidential or proprietary information of the Company. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "confidential or proprietary information" will include all information of any nature and in any form that is owned by the Company and that is not publicly available (other than by Executive's breach of this Section 8(b)) or generally known to persons engaged in businesses similar or related to those of the Company. Confidential or proprietary information will include, without limitation, the Company's financial matters, customers, employees, industry contracts, strategic business plans, product development (or other proprietary product data), marketing plans, and all other secrets and all other information of a confidential or proprietary nature. For purposes of the preceding two sentences, the term "Company" will also include any Subsidiary (collectively, the "Restricted Group"). The foregoing obligations imposed by this Section 8(b) will not apply (i) during the Term, in the course of the business of and for the benefit of the Company, (ii) if such confidential or proprietary information will have become, through no fault of the Executive, generally known to the public or (iii) if the Executive is required by law to make disclosure (after giving the Company notice and, to the extent feasible, an opportunity to contest such requirement).
          (c) The Executive hereby covenants and agrees that during the Term and for one year thereafter Executive will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, on behalf of Executive or on behalf of any person, firm or company, directly or indirectly, attempt to influence, persuade or induce, or assist any other person in so persuading or inducing, any management employee of the Restricted Group to give up employment with the Restricted Group, provided the foregoing shall not be violated by advertising or searches not specifically targeted at the management employees of the Restricted Group; or serving as a reference.
          (d) Executive and the Company agree that the covenants contained in this Section 8 are reasonable under the circumstances, and further agree that if in the opinion of any court of competent jurisdiction any such covenant is not reasonable in any respect, such court will have the right, power and authority to excise or modify any provision or provisions of such covenants as to the court will appear not reasonable and to enforce the remainder of the covenants as so amended. Executive acknowledges and agrees that the remedy at law available to the Company for breach of any of his obligations under this Section 8 would be inadequate and that damages flowing from such a breach may not readily be susceptible to being measured in monetary terms. Accordingly, Executive acknowledges, consents and agrees that, in addition to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have at law, in equity or under this Agreement, upon adequate proof of his violation of any such provision of this Agreement, the Company will be entitled to immediate injunctive relief and may obtain a temporary order restraining any threatened or further breach, without the necessity of proof of actual damage.
 
     9. . Nothing expressed or implied in this Agreement will create any right or duty on the part of the Company or the Executive to have the Executive remain in the employment of the Company or any Subsidiary prior to or following any Change in Control.
Employment Rights
     10. . The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city or other taxes as the Company is required to withhold pursuant to any applicable law, regulation or ruling.
Withholding of Taxes
     11. .
Successors and Binding Agreement
          (a) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company, by agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Executive, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. This Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor to the Company, including without limitation any persons acquiring directly or indirectly all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, reorganization or otherwise (and such successor shall thereafter be deemed the "Company" for the purposes of this Agreement), but will not otherwise be assignable, transferable or delegable by the Company.
          (b) This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees and legatees.
          (c) This Agreement is personal in nature and neither of the parties hereto shall, without the consent of the other, assign, transfer or delegate this Agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder except as expressly provided in Sections 11(a) and 11(b). Without limiting the generality or effect of the foregoing, the Executive's right to receive payments hereunder will not be assignable, transferable or delegable, whether by pledge, creation of a security interest, or otherwise, other than by a transfer by Executive's will or by the laws of descent and distribution and, in the event of any attempted assignment or transfer contrary to this Section 11(c), the Company shall have no liability to pay any amount so attempted to be assigned, transferred or delegated.
     12. . For all purposes of this Agreement, all communications, including without limitation notices, consents, requests or approvals, required or permitted to be given hereunder will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given when hand delivered or dispatched by electronic facsimile transmission (with receipt thereof orally confirmed), or five business days after having been mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or three business days after having been sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier service such as FedEx, UPS, or Purolator, addressed to the Company (to the attention of the Secretary of the Company) at its principal executive office and to the Executive at his address on the books of the Company, or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing and in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
Notices
 
     13. . The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Agreement to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.
Governing Law
     14. . Any disputes, litigation, proceedings or other legal actions by any party to this Agreement in connection with or relating to this Agreement or any matters described or contemplated in this Agreement may be instituted in the courts of the State of Delaware or of the United States sitting in the State of Delaware. Each party to this Agreement irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware and of the United States sitting in the State of Delaware in connection with any such dispute, litigation, proceeding or other legal action arising out of or relating to this Agreement.
Consent to Jurisdiction
     15. . If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any provision hereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal, the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to any other person or circumstances will not be affected, and the provision so held to be invalid, unenforceable or otherwise illegal will be reformed to the extent (and only to the extent) necessary to make it enforceable, valid or legal.
Validity
     16. . No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing signed by the Executive and the Company. No waiver by either party to this Agreement at any time of any breach by the other contracting party or compliance with any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party will be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, expressed or implied with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not set forth expressly in this Agreement. References to Sections are to references to Sections of this Agreement.
Miscellaneous
     17. . To the extent that there is a material risk that any payments under this Severance Agreement may result in the imposition of an additional tax to you under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A ("Section 409A"), Harman will reasonably cooperate with you to amend this Severance Agreement such that payments hereunder comply with Section 409A without materially changing the economic value of this Severance Agreement to either party.
Code Section 409A
     18. . If the Executive is at the time of his separation from service (as defined under Section 409A) with Harman (other than as a result of his death) a "Specified Employee", as such term is defined under Section 409A, any payment due to the Executive hereunder that indicates it is subject to the Section 409A Delay shall be delayed until the earlier of his death or six (6) months after such separation from service and shall then be promptly paid to the Executive in a lump sum, together with interest for the period of delay, compounded annually, equal to the prime rate (as published in The Wall Street Journal), and in effect as of the date the payment should otherwise have been provided.
Section 409A Delay
 
     19. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written.
 

 
Exhibit 10.3
Exhibit A
     THIS NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of July 1, 2007, is entered into between HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Dinesh Paliwal (""). Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings assigned to those terms in the Company's 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "").
Agreement
Company
Optionee
Plan
     A. Optionee is an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company; and
     B. The execution of this Agreement in the form hereof has been authorized by the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board (the "");
Committee
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises and the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Company and Optionee agree as follows:
     1. . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, effective as of the Date of Grant (as defined in Section 3), an option (the "") to purchase 100,000 shares (the "") of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), at the price of $  per share (the ""). This Agreement constitutes an "" under the Plan.
Grant of Option
Option
Option Shares
Common Shares
Option Price
Evidence of Award
     2. . The Option is intended to be a nonqualified stock option and shall not be treated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Type of Option
     3. . The effective date of the grant of this Option is July 1, 2007 (the "").
Date of Grant
Date of Grant
     4. . This Option shall expire on the 10 anniversary of the Date of Grant (the ""), unless earlier terminated under Section 7(a).
Date of Expiration
th
Date of Expiration
     5. .
Vesting of Option
     (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Option shall become vested and exercisable to the extent of 20% of the Option Shares on each of the first five anniversaries of the Date of Grant.
     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5(a) above, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full upon the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined
 
below) on or before the Termination Date. A "" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
          (i) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) (a "") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the ""); , , that for purposes of this Section 5(b)(i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any issuance of Voting Shares directly from the Company that is approved by the Incumbent Board (as defined in Section 5(b)(ii) below), (B) any acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of Voting Shares, (C) any acquisition of Voting Shares by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary or (D) any acquisition of Voting Shares by any Person pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 5(b)(iii) below;
Exchange Act
Person
Voting Shares
provided
however
          (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a Director after the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then constituting the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) shall be deemed to have been a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a 12 of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board;
Incumbent Board
provided
however
          (iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or other transaction (each, a ""), unless, in each case, immediately following the Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of Voting Shares immediately prior to the Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Shares of the entity resulting from the Business Combination (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (B) no Person (other than the Company, such entity resulting from the Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company, any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from the Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Shares of the entity resulting from the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from the Business Combination
Business Combination
 
were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for the Business Combination; or
          (iv) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, except pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 5(b)(iii) hereof.
          (v) Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, the consummation of the Agreement and Plan of Merger among KHI Parent Inc., KHI Merger Sub Inc. and Harman International Industries, Incorporated, dated as of April 26, 2007, shall not constitute a Change in Control for purposes of this Agreement.
          (vi) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5(a) above, (i) the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full if Optionee dies or becomes permanently disabled while in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary, and (ii) the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine that all or any portion of the Option shall become immediately exercisable if Optionee retires while in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary; provided, however, that if the Optionee is terminated by the Company without Cause or terminates for Good Reason (each as defined in the Letter Agreement between Optionee and the Company, dated as of May 8, 2007 (the "Letter Agreement")), the number of Options that shall become immediately exercisable shall be determined by dividing the number of full and partial months completed since July 1, 2007 by 60, then multiplying the resulting quotient by the full number of Options granted and then subtracting from that result the number of Options that have previously become exercisable.
6. .
Manner of Exercise
          (a) To the extent the Option is exercisable in accordance with Section 5, the Option may be exercised by Optionee at any time, or from time to time, in whole or in part on or prior to the Termination Date; , , that Optionee must exercise the Option in multiples of 50 Option Shares unless fewer than 50 Option Shares are available for purchase by Optionee under this Agreement at the time of exercise.
provided
however
          (b) Optionee shall exercise the Option by delivering a signed written notice to the Company, which notice shall specify the number of Option Shares to be purchased and be accompanied by payment in full of the Option Price and any required taxes (as provided in the Plan) for the number of Option Shares specified for purchase.
          (c) Upon full payment of the Option Price and any required taxes, and subject to the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company will cause certificates for the Option Shares purchased hereunder to be delivered to Optionee.
          (d) The Optionee may reduce options to cover minimum required tax withholding and, if there has been a Change in Control, to pay the Option Price.
 
7. .
Termination
          (a) The Option shall terminate on the earliest of the following dates (such date, the ""):
Termination Date
          (i) the date that Optionee's employment with the Company terminates for any reason other than death or permanent disability; , , that the Optionee shall have 90 days from the date of termination of employment to exercise the portion of the Option that had vested on or prior to the termination of Optionee's employment; , that the Optionee shall have 180 days from the date of termination to exercise the portion of the Option that is vested on or prior to the termination of Optionee's employment if such termination is by the Company without Cause or by the Optionee for Good Reason (each as defined in the Letter Agreement between the Optionee and the Company dated as of May 8, 2007, or if the Severance Agreement dated as of May 8, 2007 between the Company and the Optionee (the "Severance Agreement") is operative, as defined in the Severance Agreement ).
provided
however
provided further
          (ii) one year after the death or permanent disability of Optionee, if Optionee dies or becomes permanently disabled while an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, or
          (iii) the Date of Expiration.
          (b) During the periods referred to in Section 7(a)(i) above and the one year period referred to in Section 7(a)(ii) above, the Option may be exercised only to the extent that, at the time that Optionee ceases to be an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, it is exercisable pursuant to Section 5 hereof.
          (c) For the purposes of this Agreement, the continuous employment of Optionee with the Company or a Subsidiary shall not be deemed to have been interrupted, and Optionee shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, by reason of (i) the transfer of Optionee's employment among the Company and its Subsidiaries, (ii) an approved leave of absence of not more than 90 days, or (iii) the period of any leave of absence required to be granted by the Company under any law, rule, regulation or contract applicable to Optionee's employment with the Company or any Subsidiary.
          (d) Notwithstanding anything elsewhere to the contrary, in no event shall Section 17(g) of the Plan be applicable to the Option.
     8. . All certificates evidencing Option Shares purchased pursuant hereto, and any certificates for Common Shares issued as dividends on, in exchange of, or as replacements for, certificates evidencing Option Shares which, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, are subject to similar legal requirements, shall have endorsed thereon before issuance such restrictive or other legends as the Company's counsel may deem necessary or advisable. The Company and any transfer agent shall not be required to register or record the transfer of any such shares unless and until the Company or its transfer agent shall have received from Optionee's counsel an opinion, in a form satisfactory to the Company, that any such transfer will not be in violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation. Optionee agrees not to sell, assign,
Share Certificates
 
pledge or otherwise dispose of any Option Shares or any Common Shares that are subject to restrictions on transfer described in this Section 8 without the Company first receiving such an opinion.
     9. . The Option may not be transferred by Optionee except by will or the laws of descent and distribution and may not be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee except by Optionee or Optionee's guardian or legal representative acting on behalf of Optionee in a fiduciary capacity under state law and court supervision.
Transfer
     10. . The Company shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal or state securities laws; , , that notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Option shall not be exercisable if the exercise would result in a violation of any such laws.
Compliance with Law
provided
however
     11. . This Agreement shall not confer on Optionee any right with respect to the continuance of employment or other service with the Company or any Subsidiary. No provision of this Agreement shall limit in any way whatsoever any right that the Company or a Subsidiary may otherwise have to terminate the employment of Optionee at any time.\
Employment Rights
     12. . All notices, demands and other communications required or permitted hereunder or designated to be given with respect to the rights or interests covered by this Agreement shall be deemed to have been properly given or delivered when delivered personally or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, U.S. mail or reputable overnight carrier, with full postage prepaid and addressed to the parties as follows:
Communications
Either the Company or Optionee may change the above designated address by written notice to the other specifying such new address.
     13. . The interpretation and construction of this Agreement by the Committee shall be final and conclusive; provided, however, that the definitions of Cause, Good Reason, and Disability and any other provision covered in the Letter Agreement or Severance Agreement shall be interpreted in the manner set forth in the Letter Agreement or the Severance Agreement, as applicable. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any such action or determination made in good faith.
Interpretation
     14. . This Agreement may be amended as provided in the Plan; , , that all such amendments shall be in writing.
Amendment in Writing
provided
however
     15. . The Option is granted pursuant to the Plan. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement is subject to all of the terms and
Integration
 
conditions of the Plan, a copy of which is available upon request and which is incorporated herein by reference, the Letter Agreement and the Severance Agreement. As such, this Agreement, the Plan, the Letter Agreement and the Severance Agreement embody the entire agreement and understanding of the Company and Optionee and supersede any prior understandings or agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to the Option.
     16. . In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, any provision so invalidated shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions hereof and the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be valid and fully enforceable.
Severance
     17. . This Agreement is made under, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
     18. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed by a duly authorized representative of the Company on the day and year first above written.
The undersigned Optionee hereby acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Agreement and accepts the Option subject to the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.

 
Exhibit 10.4
Exhibit B
     THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of July 1, 2007, is entered into between HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Dinesh Paliwal (""). Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings assigned to those terms in the Company's 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "").
Agreement
Company
Grantee
Plan
     A. Grantee is an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company; and
     B. The execution of this Agreement in the form hereof has been authorized by the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board (the "");
Committee
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises and the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Company and Grantee agree as follows:
     1. . The Company hereby grants to Grantee 15,000 shares (the "") of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), (the ""). The Restricted Shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable and shall be represented by a certificate or certificates registered in the name of Grantee. Certificates evidencing Restricted Shares, and any certificates for Common Shares issued as dividends on, in exchange of, or as replacements for, certificates evidencing Restricted Shares, shall bear legends referring to the restrictions set forth herein and any other restrictive legends as the Company's counsel may deem necessary or advisable. This Agreement constitutes an "" under the Plan.
Grant of Restricted Shares
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant
Evidence of Award
     2. . The effective date of the grant of the Restricted Shares is July 1, 2007.
Date of Grant
     3. . The Restricted Shares may not be transferred, sold, pledged, exchanged, assigned or otherwise encumbered or disposed of by Grantee unless and until they have become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 4 hereof; , , that Grantee's interest in the Restricted Shares may be transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any purported transfer, encumbrance or other disposition of the Restricted Shares that is in violation of this Section 3 shall be null and void, and the other party to any such purported transaction shall not obtain any rights to or interest in the Restricted Shares.
Restrictions on Transfer
provided
however
 
     4. .
Lapse of Restrictions
          (a) The Restricted Shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable as July 1, 2010, unless earlier forfeited in accordance with Section 5.
          (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4(a) above, all Restricted Shares shall become immediately nonrestricted and nonforfeitable upon the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below). A "Change in Control" means the occurrence, before this Agreement terminates, of any of the following events:
          (i) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) (a "") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d 3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the ""); , , that for purposes of this Section 4(b)(i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any issuance of Voting Shares directly from the Company that is approved by the Incumbent Board (as defined in Section 4(b)(ii) below), (B) any acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of Voting Shares, (C) any acquisition of Voting Shares by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary or (D) any acquisition of Voting Shares by any Person pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 4(b)(iii) below;
Exchange Act
Person
Voting Shares
provided
however
          (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a Director after the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then constituting the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) shall be deemed to have been a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a 12 of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board;
Incumbent Board
provided
however
          (iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or other transaction (each, a ""), unless, in each case, immediately following the Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of Voting Shares immediately prior to the Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Shares of the entity resulting from the Business Combination (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets
Business Combination
 
either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (B) no Person (other than the Company, such entity resulting from the Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company, any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from the Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Shares of the entity resulting from the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from the Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for the Business Combination; or
          (iv) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, except pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 4(b)(iii) hereof.
          (v) Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, the consummation of the Agreement and Plan of Merger among KHI Parent Inc., KHI Merger Sub Inc. and Harman International Industries, Incorporated, dated as of April 26, 2007, shall not constitute a Change in Control for purposes of this Agreement.
     5. .
Forfeiture of Restricted Shares
          (a) Any of the Restricted Shares that remain forfeitable in accordance with Section 4 hereof shall be forfeited if Grantee ceases for any reason to be employed by the Company or a Subsidiary at any time prior to such shares becoming nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 3 hereof, unless the Committee determines to provide otherwise at the time of the cessation of Grantee's employment; provided, however, that if the Grantee is terminated by the Company without Cause or terminates for Good Reason (each as defined in the Letter Agreement between Grantee and the Company, dated as May 8, 2007 (the "Letter Agreement")), the number of additional Restricted Shares that shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable shall be the greater of (I) 7,500, or (II) the number of shares determined by (x) dividing the number of full and partial months completed since July 1, 2007 by 36, (y) then multiplying the resulting quotient by the full number of Restricted Shares granted and (z) then subtracting the number of Restricted Shares that have previously become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable; provided, however, that if the sum of the result from subsection (II) above and the results from Section 6(a)(II) from Exhibit C to the Letter Agreement exceed 30,000, such sum shall control; provided, further, that all Restricted Shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable if Grantee's employment terminates due to his death or Disability (as defined in the Letter Agreement). For the purposes of this Agreement, the Grantee's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary shall not be deemed to have been interrupted, and Grantee shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, by reason of (i) the transfer of Grantee's employment among the Company and its Subsidiaries, (ii) an approved leave of absence of not more than 90 days, (iii) the period of any leave of absence required to be granted by the Company under any law, rule, regulation or contract applicable to Grantee's employment with the Company or any Subsidiary, or (iv) while Executive is incapacitated and his employment has not been terminated for Disability.
 
          (b) In the event of a forfeiture, the certificate(s) representing Restricted Shares that have been forfeited shall be cancelled.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything elsewhere to the contrary, in no event shall Section 17(g) of the Plan be applicable to the Restricted Shares.
     6. . Grantee shall have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Shares, including the right to vote the Restricted Shares and receive any dividends that may be paid thereon; , , that any additional Common Shares, or other equity or debt securities or other consideration, including cash, that Grantee may become entitled to receive pursuant to a share dividend or a merger or reorganization or any other change in the capital structure of the Company shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Restricted Shares.
Dividend, Voting and Other Rights
provided
however
     7. . The Company shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal or state securities laws; , , that notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated to issue any restricted or nonrestricted Common Shares or other securities pursuant to this Agreement if the issuance thereof would result in a violation of any such laws.
Compliance with Law
provided
however
     8. . This Agreement shall not confer on Grantee any right with respect to the continuance of employment or other services with the Company or any Subsidiary. No provision of this Agreement shall limit in any way whatsoever any right that the Company or a Subsidiary may otherwise have to terminate the employment of Grantee at any time.
Employment Rights
     9. . All notices, demands and other communications required or permitted hereunder or designated to be given with respect to the rights or interests covered by this Agreement shall be deemed to have been properly given or delivered when delivered personally or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, U.S. mail or reputable overnight carrier, with full postage prepaid and addressed to the parties as follows:
Communications
Either the Company or Grantee may change the above designated address by written notice to the other specifying such new address.
     10. . The interpretation and construction of this Agreement by the Committee shall be final and conclusive; provided, however, that the definitions of Cause, Good Reason, and Disability and any other provision covered in the Letter Agreement or the Severance Agreement between the Company and the Grantee dated as of May 8, 2007 (the "Severance Agreement") shall be interpreted in the manner set forth in the Letter Agreement or the Severance Agreement, as applicable. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any such action or determination made in good faith.
Interpretation
 
     11. . This Agreement may be amended as provided in the Plan; , , that all such amendments shall be in writing.
Amendment in Writing
provided
however
     12. . The Restricted Shares are granted pursuant to the Plan. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, a copy of which is available upon request and which is incorporated herein by reference, the Letter Agreement and the Severance Agreement. As such, this Agreement, the Plan, the Letter Agreement and the Severance Agreement embody the entire agreement and understanding of the Company and Grantee and supersede any prior understandings or agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to the Restricted Shares.
Integration
     13. . In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, any provision so invalidated shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions hereof and the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be valid and fully enforceable.
Severance
     14. . The Grantee may reduce the Restricted Shares that have become nonforfeitable in order to cover minimum required tax withholding.
Withholding
     15. . This Agreement is made under, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
     16. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed by a duly authorized representative of the Company on the day and year first above written.
The undersigned Grantee acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Agreement and accepts the Restricted Shares subject to the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.

 
Exhibit 10.5
Exhibit C
     THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of July 1, 2007, is entered into between HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Dinesh Paliwal ("").
Agreement
Company
Grantee
     A. Grantee is an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company; and
     B. The execution of this Agreement in the form hereof has been authorized by the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board (the "");
Committee
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises and the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Company and Grantee agree as follows:
     1. . The Company hereby grants to Grantee 33,575 shares (the "") of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), (the ""). The Restricted Shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable and shall be represented by a certificate or certificates registered in the name of Grantee. Certificates evidencing Restricted Shares, and any certificates for Common Shares issued as dividends on, in exchange of, or as replacements for, certificates evidencing Restricted Shares, shall bear legends referring to the restrictions set forth herein and any other restrictive legends as the Company's counsel may deem necessary or advisable.
Grant of Restricted Shares
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant
     2. . The Restricted Shares covered by this Grant are granted as an inducement grant, not under any stock incentive plan adopted by the Company. Notwithstanding, this Agreement shall be construed as if such Restricted Shares had been granted under the Company's 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "Plan") in accordance and consistent with, and subject to, the provisions of the Plan (the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference) and, except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, except for any limitations therein that are inconsistent with this grant. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings assigned to those terms in the Plan.
Inducement Grant
     3. . The effective date of the grant of the Restricted Shares is July 1, 2007.
Date of Grant
     4. . The Restricted Shares may not be transferred, sold, pledged, exchanged, assigned or otherwise encumbered or disposed of by Grantee unless and until they have become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 5 hereof; , , that Grantee's interest in the Restricted Shares may be transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any purported transfer, encumbrance or other disposition
Restrictions on Transfer
provided
however
 
of the Restricted Shares that is in violation of this Section 4 shall be null and void, and the other party to any such purported transaction shall not obtain any rights to or interest in the Restricted Shares.
     5. .
Lapse of Restrictions
          (a) The Restricted Shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable as follows, unless earlier forfeited in accordance with Section 6:
          (i) 18,575 shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable on March 1, 2010;
          (ii) 3,000 shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable on each of the first five anniversaries of the date of the Grant.
          (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5(a) above, all Restricted Shares shall become immediately nonrestricted and nonforfeitable upon the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below). A "Change in Control" means the occurrence, before this Agreement terminates, of any of the following events:
          (i) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) (a "") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d 3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the ""); , , that for purposes of this Section 5(b)(i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any issuance of Voting Shares directly from the Company that is approved by the Incumbent Board (as defined in Section 5(b)(ii) below), (B) any acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of Voting Shares, (C) any acquisition of Voting Shares by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary or (D) any acquisition of Voting Shares by any Person pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 5(b)(iii) below;
Exchange Act
Person
Voting Shares
provided
however
          (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a Director after the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then constituting the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) shall be deemed to have been a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a 12 of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board;
Incumbent Board
provided
however
 
          (iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or other transaction (each, a ""), unless, in each case, immediately following the Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of Voting Shares immediately prior to the Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Shares of the entity resulting from the Business Combination (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (B) no Person (other than the Company, such entity resulting from the Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company, any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from the Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Shares of the entity resulting from the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from the Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for the Business Combination; or
Business Combination
          (iv) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, except pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 5(b)(iii) hereof.
          (v) Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, the consummation of the Agreement and Plan of Merger among KHI Parent Inc., KHI Merger Sub Inc. and Harman International Industries, Incorporated, dated as of April 26, 2007, shall not constitute a Change in Control for purposes of this Agreement.
     6. .
Forfeiture of Restricted Shares
          (a) Any of the Restricted Shares that remain forfeitable in accordance with Section 5 hereof shall be forfeited if Grantee ceases for any reason to be employed by the Company or a Subsidiary at any time prior to such shares becoming nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 4 hereof, unless the Committee determines to provide otherwise at the time of the cessation of Grantee's employment; provided, however, that if the Grantee is terminated by the Company without Cause or terminates for Good Reason (each as defined in the Letter Agreement between Grantee and the Company, dated as of May 8, 2007 (the "Letter Agreement")), the number of Restricted Shares that shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable (when added to the number of Restricted Shares under this Agreement that have previously become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable by the passage of time) shall be the greater of (I) 22,500 or (II) the number of shares determined by (x) dividing the number of full and partial months completed since July 1, 2007 by 32 (with respect to the shares described in Section 5(a)(i)) and by 60 (with respect to the shares described in Section 5(a)(ii)), (y) then multiplying the resulting quotients by the full number of Restricted Shares described in Sections 5(a)(i) and 5(a)(ii) respectively and (z) then subtracting the number of Restricted Shares that have previously become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable; provided, however, that if the sum of the result from subsection (II) above and the results from Section 5(a)(II) from Exhibit B to the
 
Letter Agreement exceeds 30,000, then such sum shall control; provided, further that all Restricted Shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable if Grantee's employment terminates due to his death or Disability (as defined in the Letter Agreement). For the purposes of this Agreement, the Grantee's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary shall not be deemed to have been interrupted, and Grantee shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, by reason of (i) the transfer of Grantee's employment among the Company and its Subsidiaries, (ii) an approved leave of absence of not more than 90 days, (iii) the period of any leave of absence required to be granted by the Company under any law, rule, regulation or contract applicable to Grantee's employment with the Company or any Subsidiary, or (iv) while Executive is incapacitated and his employment has not been terminated for Disability.
          (b) In the event of a forfeiture, the certificate(s) representing Restricted Shares that have been forfeited shall be cancelled.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything elsewhere to the contrary, in no event shall Section 17(g) of the Plan be applicable to the Restricted Shares.
     7. . Grantee shall have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Shares, including the right to vote the Restricted Shares and receive any dividends that may be paid thereon; , , that any additional Common Shares, or other equity or debt securities or other consideration, including cash, that Grantee may become entitled to receive pursuant to a share dividend or a merger or reorganization or any other change in the capital structure of the Company shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Restricted Shares.
Dividend, Voting and Other Rights
provided
however
     8. . The Company shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal or state securities laws; , , that notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated to issue any restricted or nonrestricted Common Shares or other securities pursuant to this Agreement if the issuance thereof would result in a violation of any such laws.
Compliance with Law
provided
however
     9. . This Agreement shall not confer on Grantee any right with respect to the continuance of employment or other services with the Company or any Subsidiary. No provision of this Agreement shall limit in any way whatsoever any right that the Company or a Subsidiary may otherwise have to terminate the employment of Grantee at any time.
Employment Rights
     10. . All notices, demands and other communications required or permitted hereunder or designated to be given with respect to the rights or interests covered by this Agreement shall be deemed to have been properly given or delivered when delivered personally or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, U.S. mail or reputable overnight carrier, with full postage prepaid and addressed to the parties as follows:
Communications
 
Either the Company or Grantee may change the above designated address by written notice to the other specifying such new address.
     11. . The interpretation and construction of this Agreement by the Committee shall be final and conclusive; provided, however, that the definitions of Cause, Good Reason, and Disability, and any other provision covered in the Letter Agreement or the Severance Agreement between the Company and the Grantee dated as of May 8, 2007 (the "Severance Agreement") shall be interpreted in the manner set forth in the Letter Agreement or the Severance Agreement, as applicable. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any such action or determination made in good faith.
Interpretation
     12. . This Agreement may be amended as provided in the Plan; , , that all such amendments shall be in writing.
Amendment in Writing
provided
however
     13. . This Agreement, the Letter Agreement and the Severance Agreement embody the entire agreement and understanding of the Company and Grantee and supersede any prior understandings or agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to the Restricted Shares.
Integration
     14. . In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, any provision so invalidated shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions hereof and the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be valid and fully enforceable.
Severance
     15. . The Grantee may reduce the Restricted Shares that have become nonforfeitable in order to cover minimum required tax withholding.
Withholding
     16. . This Agreement is made under, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
     17. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed by a duly authorized representative of the Company on the day and year first above written.
The undersigned Grantee acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Agreement and accepts the Restricted Shares subject to the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.

 
Exhibit 10.6
Exhibit D
     THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of July 1, 2007, is entered into between HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Dinesh Paliwal ("").
Agreement
Company
Grantee
     A. Grantee is an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company; and
     B. The execution of this Agreement in the form hereof has been authorized by the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board (the "");
Committee
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises and the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Company and Grantee agree as follows:
     1. . The Company hereby grants to Grantee 16,004 shares (the "") of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), (the ""). The Restricted Shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable and shall be represented by a certificate or certificates registered in the name of Grantee. Certificates evidencing Restricted Shares, and any certificates for Common Shares issued as dividends on, in exchange of, or as replacements for, certificates evidencing Restricted Shares, shall bear legends referring to the restrictions set forth herein and any other restrictive legends as the Company's counsel may deem necessary or advisable.
Grant of Restricted Shares
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant
     2. . The Restricted Shares covered by this Grant are granted as an inducement grant, not under any stock incentive plan adopted by the Company. Notwithstanding, this Agreement shall be construed as if such Restricted Shares had been granted under the Company's 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "Plan") in accordance and consistent with, and subject to, the provisions of the Plan (the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference) and, except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, except for any limitations therein that are inconsistent with this grant. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings assigned to those terms in the Plan.
Inducement Grant
     3. . The effective date of the grant of the Restricted Shares is July 1, 2007.
Date of Grant
     4. . The Restricted Shares may not be transferred, sold, pledged, exchanged, assigned or otherwise encumbered or disposed of by Grantee unless and until they have become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 5 hereof; , , that Grantee's interest in the Restricted Shares may be transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any purported transfer, encumbrance or other disposition of the Restricted Shares that is in violation of this Section 4 shall be null and void, and the other
Restrictions on Transfer
provided
however
 
party to any such purported transaction shall not obtain any rights to or interest in the Restricted Shares.
     5. .
Lapse of Restrictions
          (a) The Restricted Shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable as follows, unless earlier forfeited in accordance with Section 6:
          (i) 5,169 shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable on March 1, 2008;
          (ii) 5,418 shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable on March 1, 2009;
          (iii) 5,417 shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable on March 1, 2010.
          (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5(a) above, all Restricted Shares shall become immediately nonrestricted and nonforfeitable upon the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below). A "Change in Control" means the occurrence, before this Agreement terminates, of any of the following events:
          (i) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) (a "") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d 3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the ""); , , that for purposes of this Section 5(b)(i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any issuance of Voting Shares directly from the Company that is approved by the Incumbent Board (as defined in Section 5(b)(ii) below), (B) any acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of Voting Shares, (C) any acquisition of Voting Shares by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary or (D) any acquisition of Voting Shares by any Person pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 5(b)(iii) below;
Exchange Act
Person
Voting Shares
provided
however
          (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a Director after the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then constituting the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) shall be deemed to have been a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of Rule 14a 12 of the Exchange Act) with
Incumbent Board
provided
however
 
respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board;
          (iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or other transaction (each, a ""), unless, in each case, immediately following the Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of Voting Shares immediately prior to the Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Shares of the entity resulting from the Business Combination (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (B) no Person (other than the Company, such entity resulting from the Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company, any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from the Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Shares of the entity resulting from the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from the Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for the Business Combination; or
Business Combination
          (iv) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, except pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 5(b)(iii) hereof.
          (v) Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, the consummation of the Agreement and Plan of Merger among KHI Parent Inc., KHI Merger Sub Inc. and Harman International Industries, Incorporated, dated as of April 26, 2007, shall not constitute a Change in Control for purposes of this Agreement.
     6. .
Forfeiture of Restricted Shares
          (a) Any of the Restricted Shares that remain forfeitable in accordance with Section 5 hereof shall be forfeited if Grantee ceases for any reason to be employed by the Company or a Subsidiary at any time prior to such shares becoming nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 5 hereof, unless the Committee determines to provide otherwise at the time of the cessation of Grantee's employment; provided, however, that if the Grantee is terminated by the Company without Cause or terminates for Good Reason (each as defined in the Letter Agreement between Grantee and the Company, dated as of May 8, 2007 (the "Letter Agreement")), all of the Restricted Shares shall become nonrestricted and nonforfeitable immediately. For the purposes of this Agreement, the Grantee's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary shall not be deemed to have been interrupted, and Grantee shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, by reason of (i) the transfer of Grantee's employment among the Company and its Subsidiaries, (ii) an approved leave of absence of not more than 90 days, (iii) the period of any leave of absence required to be granted by the Company under any law, rule, regulation or contract applicable to Grantee's employment
 
with the Company or any Subsidiary, or (iv) while Executive is incapacitated and his employment has not been terminated for Disability.
          (b) Any of the Restricted Shares that remain forfeitable in accordance with Section 4 shall be forfeited on the date that the Committee determines that such Restricted Shares shall be forfeited under the circumstances described in Section 17(g) of the Plan.
          (c) In the event of a forfeiture, the certificate(s) representing Restricted Shares that have been forfeited shall be cancelled.
     7. . Grantee shall have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Shares, including the right to vote the Restricted Shares and receive any dividends that may be paid thereon; , , that any additional Common Shares, other equity or debt securities or other consideration, including cash, that Grantee may become entitled to receive pursuant to a share dividend or a merger or reorganization or any other change in the capital structure of the Company shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Restricted Shares.
Dividend, Voting and Other Rights
provided
however
     8. . The Company shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal or state securities laws; , , that notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated to issue any restricted or nonrestricted Common Shares or other securities pursuant to this Agreement if the issuance thereof would result in a violation of any such laws.
Compliance with Law
provided
however
     9. . This Agreement shall not confer on Grantee any right with respect to the continuance of employment or other services with the Company or any Subsidiary. No provision of this Agreement shall limit in any way whatsoever any right that the Company or a Subsidiary may otherwise have to terminate the employment of Grantee at any time.
Employment Rights
     10. . All notices, demands and other communications required or permitted hereunder or designated to be given with respect to the rights or interests covered by this Agreement shall be deemed to have been properly given or delivered when delivered personally or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, U.S. mail or reputable overnight carrier, with full postage prepaid and addressed to the parties as follows:
Communications
Either the Company or Grantee may change the above designated address by written notice to the other specifying such new address.
     11. . The interpretation and construction of this Agreement by the Committee shall be final and conclusive; provided, however, that the definitions of Cause, Good Reason, and Disability and any other provision covered in the Letter Agreement or the Severance
Interpretation
 
Agreement between the Company and the Grantee dated as of May 8, 2007 (the "Severance Agreement") shall be interpreted in a manner set forth in the Letter Agreement or the Severance Agreement, as applicable. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any such action or determination made in good faith.
     12. . This Agreement may be amended as provided in the Plan; , , that all such amendments shall be in writing.
Amendment in Writing
provided
however
     13. . This Agreement, the Letter Agreement and the Severance Agreement embody the entire agreement and understanding of the Company and Grantee and supersede any prior understandings or agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to the Restricted Shares.
Integration
     14. . In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, any provision so invalidated shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions hereof and the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be valid and fully enforceable.
Severance
     15. . The Grantee may reduce the Restricted Shares that have become nonforfeitable in order to cover minimum required tax withholding.
Withholding
     16. . This Agreement is made under, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
     17. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed by a duly authorized representative of the Company on the day and year first above written.
The undersigned Grantee acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Agreement and accepts the Restricted Shares subject to the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.

 
Exhibit 10.7
Exhibit E
     THIS RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of July 1, 2007 is entered into between HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Dinesh Paliwal ("Grantee").
     A. Grantee is an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company; and
     B. The execution of this Agreement in the form hereof has been authorized by the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board (the "Committee");
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises and the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Company and Grantee agree as follows:
 
5. .
Vesting of Restricted Share Units
 
6. .
Forfeiture of Restricted Share Units
 
 
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed by a duly authorized representative of the Company on the day and year first above written.
     The undersigned Grantee acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Agreement and accepts the Restricted Share Units subject to the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.


