FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20071221165221.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     
Election of Gary Steel as Director
     On December 17, 2007, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, Gary G. Steel was appointed to serve as a member of the Board of Directors ("Board") of Harman International Industries, Incorporated ("Company"). Mr. Steel was appointed to fill a new vacancy created when the Board was increased from seven to eight members. Mr. Steel's compensation for his service as a director will be consistent with that of the Company's other non-management directors, as described in the Company's proxy statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 29, 2007, under the caption "The Board, Its Committees and Its Compensation  Director Compensation." Mr. Steel's term as a director will expire at the Company's 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Steel and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director. There are no transactions involving Mr. Steel that would be required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
     On December 17, 2007, the Board also made changes to the composition of its three standing committees. The directors now serving on the Audit Committee are Shirley Mount Hufstedler, Dr. Harald Einsmann, Ann McLaughlin Korologos and Edward H. Meyer. Ms. Hufstedler will continue as Chairwoman of the Audit Committee. The directors now serving on the Compensation and Option Committee are Brian F. Carroll, Ms. Korologos and Mr. Meyer. Mr. Meyer will continue as Chairman of the Compensation and Option Committee. The directors now serving on the Nominating and Governance Committee are Mr. Steel, Ms. Korologos and Mr. Meyer. Ms. Korologos will continue as Chairwoman of the Nominating and Governance Committee.
     
2007 Key Executive Officers Bonus Plan
     On October 23, 2007 the Board adopted the Company's 2007 Key Executive Officers Bonus Plan (the "2007 Plan"). The Board adopted the 2007 Plan upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Option Committee, subject to stockholder approval. On December 17, 2007, the Company's stockholders approved the 2007 Plan as described in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 29, 2007.
     Under the 2007 Plan, the Compensation and Option Committee will establish a return on stockholder equity goal at the beginning of each fiscal year and the maximum amount of a cash award that is payable to each plan participant if the goal is met. The maximum annual cash award payable to any plan participant under the 2007 Plan is $3 million. At the end of each fiscal year, the Compensation and Option Committee will determine whether the goal was met and, if so, the amount of the cash award to be paid to each plan participant.
     The foregoing description of the 2007 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2007 Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
     
Management Incentive Compensation Plan
     On December 17, 2007 the Board approved the Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the "MIC Plan"). The MIC Plan is an annual incentive program for executive officers, as well as other key employees, who do not participate in the 2007 Plan. Under the MIC Plan, plan participants are eligible to receive a cash bonus expressed as a percentage of base salary. In order to receive an award under the MIC Plan, the plan participant's business unit must achieve preestablished performance targets. These targets will typically include revenue, operating income, free cash flow and a cost-based index. These targets are established by reference to the Company's internal business plan. In addition, plan participants are evaluated based upon performance against individual objectives. Performance against these objectives is a multiplier of the award, ranging from zero to 120%. The bonus award payable to any plan participant cannot exceed the lesser of 150% of the plan participant's target bonus or 100% of the plan participant's annual base salary. The MIC Plan provides for discretionary cash bonuses to plan participants under circumstances in which the performance targets are not met in a fiscal year.
     The foregoing description of the MIC Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the MIC Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 21, 2007

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
1. PURPOSE. The purpose of the 2007 Key Executive Officers Bonus Plan (this "Plan") is to attract and retain key executives for Harman International Industries, Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and its Subsidiaries and to provide such persons with incentives for superior performance. Award Amounts payable under this Plan are intended to constitute qualified "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code (and any successor provision to either), and this Plan shall be construed consistently with such intention.
 
2. DEFINITIONS. As used in this Plan,
 
"Award Amount" means, for each Eligible Executive, the maximum cash award payable pursuant to Section 5 of this Plan.
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
"Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
 
(a) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this definition, the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (i) any issuance of Voting Stock of the Company directly from the Company that is approved by the Incumbent Board (as defined below), (ii) any acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary of Voting Stock of the Company, (iii) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, or (iv) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company by any Person pursuant to a Business Combination (as defined below) that complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (c) below;
Rule 13d-3
 
(b) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director after the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) shall be deemed to have been a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (within the meaning of of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board;
Rule 14a-11
 
(c) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or other transaction (each, a "Business Combination"), unless, in each case, immediately following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of Voting
 
Stock of the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the entity resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (ii) no Person (other than the Company, such entity resulting from such Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company, any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the entity resulting from such Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the entity resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(d) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, except pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (c) above.
 
"Committee" means the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board or any other committee appointed by the Board to administer this Plan; provided, however, that in any event the Committee shall be comprised of not less than two directors of the Company, each of whom shall qualify as an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor provision thereto).
 
"Eligible Executive" means the Company's Chief Executive Officer and any other executive officer of the Company that the Committee designates as an Eligible Executive under this Plan.
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
 
"Return on Shareholder Equity Goal" means the targeted return on shareholder equity goal for the year determined by the Committee pursuant to Section 5 of this Plan.
 
"Subsidiary" means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association or other entity in which the Company has a direct or indirect ownership or other equity interest.
 
"Voting Stock" means securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
 
3. ADMINISTRATION OF THIS PLAN. This Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have full power and authority to construe, interpret and administer this Plan and shall have the exclusive right to establish the Return on Shareholder Equity Goals and the Award Amount payable to each Eligible Executive upon the achievement of the Return on Shareholder Equity Goals.
 
4. ELIGIBILITY. Eligibility under this Plan is limited to Eligible Executives.
 
5. AWARDS.
 
(a) No later than September 28 of each fiscal year, the Committee shall meet in order to establish (i) the Return on Shareholder Equity Goal for the fiscal year and (ii) the Award Amount payable to each Eligible Executive if the Return on Shareholder Equity Goal for the fiscal year is met. "Return on shareholder equity" shall mean net income for the fiscal year determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as reported in the Company's annual report divided by the average shareholder equity for such year. "Average shareholder equity" shall mean the sum of the shareholder equity at the beginning of the year and the shareholder equity at the end of the year, with such sum divided by two. In connection with establishing the Return on
 
Shareholder Equity Goal for the fiscal year, the Committee shall express whether the Return on Shareholder Equity Goal for such year shall be applied before or after the application of "extraordinary items" (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles).
 
(b) After the end of each fiscal year, the Committee shall meet to determine and certify whether the Return on Shareholder Equity Goal for the fiscal year has been met. In the event that the goal has been met, the Committee shall establish the Award Amount for each Eligible Executive for the fiscal year, exercising discretion only to reduce the amount of the maximum cash award if in its judgment such a reduction is appropriate.
 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in no event shall the Award Amount paid to an Eligible Executive under this Plan for a fiscal year exceed $3,000,000.
 
6. COMMITTEE CERTIFICATION. As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, the Committee shall determine whether the Return on Shareholder Equity Goal has been achieved and the amount of the Award Amount to be paid to each Eligible Executive for such fiscal year and shall certify such determinations in writing.
 
7. PAYMENT OF AWARD AMOUNTS. Subject to a valid election made by an Eligible Executive with respect to the deferral of all or a portion of his or her Award Amount in compliance with Section 409A of the Code, Award Amounts shall be paid within 30 days after written certification pursuant to Section 6 of this Plan, but in no event later than the end of the calendar year in which the Company's fiscal year has terminated.
 
8. CHANGE IN CONTROL. In the event of a Change in Control, each Eligible Executive shall be entitled to the Award Amount for the year (without proration or any other reduction), provided that the Eligible Executive is (a) employed by the Company at the time of the Change in Control or (b) if the Eligible Executive has been terminated or removed from his or her office or position with the Company, such action occurred (i) not more than 180 days prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs, and (ii) following the commencement of any discussion with a third person that ultimately results in a Change in Control. Any payment under this Section 8 shall be made no later than 30 days after the effective date of the Change in Control and shall constitute payment in full of all obligations of the Company under this Plan for such year.
 
9. NO RIGHT TO BONUS OR CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT. Neither the establishment of this Plan, the provision for or payment of any amounts hereunder nor any action of the Company, the Board or the Committee with respect to this Plan shall be held or construed to confer upon any person (a) any legal right to receive, or any interest in, an Award Amount or any other benefit under this Plan or (b) any legal right to continue to serve as an officer or employee of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company.
 
10. WITHHOLDING. The Company shall have the right to withhold, or require an Eligible Executive to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable federal, state, local or foreign withholding tax requirements imposed with respect to the payment of any Award Amount.
 
11. NONTRANSFERABILITY. Except as expressly provided by the Committee, the rights and benefits under this Plan shall not be transferable or assignable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
 
12. AMENDMENT. The Committee may amend the Plan from time to time, provided that any such amendment complies with the requirements of Sections 162(m) and 409A of the Code (or any successor provision to either).
 
13. EFFECTIVE DATE. Subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company, this Plan shall become effective as of July 1, 2007, and shall remain effective until the fifth anniversary of the date of such approval, subject to any further stockholder approvals (or reapprovals) mandated for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor provision thereto), and subject to the right of the Board to terminate this Plan, on a prospective basis only, at any time. All awards under this Plan shall be null and void if this Plan is not approved by the stockholders of the Company.
 
14. AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF 2002 PLAN. This Plan is an amendment and restatement of the Company's 2002 Key Executive Officers Bonus Plan.

 
Exhibit 10.2
This Management Incentive Compensation Plan ("Plan") of Harman International Industries, Incorporated ("Company") is designed to reward key managers for achieving or exceeding objectives set forth in the Company's business plan for the applicable fiscal year ("Plan Objectives").
TARGET BONUS PERCENTAGE:
Each Plan participant is assigned a target bonus expressed as a percentage of base salary based on his/her position in the Company. Hence, a Plan participant with an annual salary of $100,000 and a target bonus percentage of 20% would be entitled to a target bonus of $20,000 if the applicable organizational unit(s) for which he/she works achieves its Plan Objectives with respect to the performance parameters described below and if the Plan participant achieves his/her personal objectives.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall establish target bonus percentages for all Plan participants, other than executive officers, during the first quarter beginning of each fiscal year. The Compensation and Option Committee shall establish target bonus percentages for all Plan participants who are executive officers during the first quarter of each fiscal year.
PLAN PARTICIPANTS:
The Plan is designed to reward key employees whose actions have a direct and significant impact on the results of the Company. Plan participants will be designated by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and in the case of executive officers confirmed by the Compensation and Option Committee, during the first quarter of each fiscal year and should be limited to key employees of the Company. Sales personnel are typically not included in this Plan because they are covered by a sales incentive plan.
PAYOUT PERCENTAGE:
The payout percentage is determined by a Plan participant's organizational unit's or units' performance against the Plan Objectives with respect to the performance parameters described below. The payout percentage can range from 50% to 150%. If a Plan participant's organizational unit(s) achieves its Plan Objectives for each of the performance parameters, the payout percentage is 100%. Hence, a Plan participant with an annual base salary of $100,000 and a target bonus percentage of 20% would receive the following bonus if his/her organizational unit(s) achieves its Plan Objectives with respect to each of the performance parameters described below.
 
For executive officers, the Compensation and Option Committee, in its sole discretion, will approve a minimum and maximum point for each performance parameter during the first quarter of each fiscal year.
For all other Plan participants, the Executive Committee, in its sole discretion, will set a minimum and maximum point for each performance parameter during the first quarter of each fiscal year. At the minimum point, the payout percentage is 50%. At the maximum point, the payout percentage is 150%. If an organizational unit does not reach a combined payout percentage of 50%, no bonus is earned.
The payout percentage is determined using a linear interpolation between the minimum point and Plan Objective or Plan Objective and the maximum point, as applicable.
PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS:
The parameters on which the payout percentage is based typically include Revenue Growth, with a weight of 20%, Operating Income, with a weight of 30%, Free Cash Flow with a weight of 30% and Global Footprint Index with a weight of 20%. Other parameters and other weightings may be used occasionally, as circumstances require and as approved by the Compensation and Option Committee with respect to executive officers and by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with respect to all other Plan participants.
Free cash flow is calculated as operating income plus depreciation and amortization plus change in working capital (net accounts receivable from third parties, net inventories, less trade accounts payable to third parties).
The Global Footprint Index has three components:
All intercompany accounts are excluded.
 
ACCRUAL:
Earnings used in any bonus calculation must include the accrual for the bonuses being contemplated. Otherwise, earnings will be adjusted in the determination of the bonus amount.
INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE:
Once the bonus amount for a Plan participant has been determined under the calculations described above, that amount is multiplied by a factor reflecting the Plan participant's performance against his/her personal objectives. The multiplier can range from zero to 120%. A Plan participant who does not meet his/her personal objectives could receive no bonus even if his/her organizational unit achieved its Plan Objectives.
A Plan participant's performance rating is determined by the Chief Executive Officer for direct reports (subject to approval by the Compensation and Option Committee for executive officers) and division presidents for all other Plan participants.
MAXIMUM BONUS
The maximum bonus payable to any Plan participant is 150% of his/her target bonus. Hence, the maximum bonus payable to a Plan participant with a target bonus of 20% is 30% of his/her base salary. In no event, may any Plan participant's bonus exceed 100% of his/her annual base salary.
PAYMENT:
The bonus amount will be paid to each Plan participant on the 70th day after the end of the Company's fiscal year.
INTERNAL REVENUE CODE SECTION 409A:
It is intended that the provisions of this Plan comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. All provisions of the Plan shall be construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with the requirements for avoiding taxes or penalties under Section 409A.
If, at the time of a Plan participant's separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A), (i) the Plan participant is a specified employee (within the meaning of Section 409A and using the identification methodology selected by the Company from time to time) and (ii) the Company makes a good faith determination that an amount payable hereunder constitutes deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) the payment of which is required to be delayed pursuant to the six-month delay rule set forth in Section
 
409A in order to avoid taxes or penalties under Section 409A, then the Company shall not pay such amount on the otherwise scheduled payment date but shall instead pay it, without interest, on the first business day after such six-month period expires.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, in light of the uncertainty with respect to the proper application of Section 409A, the Company reserves the right to make such amendments to this Plan as the Company deems necessary or desirable to avoid the imposition of taxes or penalties under Section 409A. In any case, Plan participants shall be solely responsible and liable for the satisfaction of all taxes and penalties that may be imposed on them in connection with this Plan (including any taxes and penalties under Section 409A), and neither the Company nor any of its affiliates shall have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold any Plan participant harmless from any or all of such taxes or penalties.
ELIGIBILITY:
An employee must be on the active payroll for at least six months of the fiscal year and be on the active payroll at the time of the distribution of the bonus in order to be eligible for a bonus award. Employees with at least six months of service in a fiscal year are eligible for a prorated bonus. Employees with less than six months of service are not eligible for a bonus in that fiscal year.
ACTUAL RESULTS:
Actual results may be adjusted at the sole discretion of Company management, and in the case of executive officers confirmed by the Compensation and Option Committee, to reflect extraordinary circumstances, windfall profits or force majeure.


