FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20070105160733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officer.
 
As previously announced, Bernard A. Girod retired as Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the Company) effective December 31, 2006. Also as previously announced, Mr. Girod resigned as a director immediately following the Companys Annual Meeting on November 2, 2006 (the Annual Meeting).
 
The Board of Directors elected Dr. Sidney Harman as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective upon Mr. Girods retirement. Dr. Harman will continue in his role as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. The Companys Board of Directors is presently conducting a search for a new chief executive officer. Dr. Harman is expected to serve as Chief Executive Officer until a candidate is identified and elected.
 
Dr. Harman has served as a director of the Company since the Companys founding in 1980. Dr. Harman previously served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company from 1980 to 1998. The additional information required by Item 5.02 of Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the captions Proposal for Election of Directors and Compensation of Executive Officers contained in the Companys proxy statement for the Annual Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 8, 2006.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED
By:
 
 /s/ Kevin L. Brown 
 Kevin L. Brown
   
Executive - Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Date: January 5, 2007


