FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20080506170346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     
Item 5.02.
Departure of Certain Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Resignation of Chief Financial Officer
     Following preliminary discussions with Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") regarding his continuing role with the Company, Kevin Brown informed the Company on April 30, 2008 that he intended to resign as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary of the Company. His resignation from these offices will be effective on May 31, 2008. Mr. Brown has agreed to serve as the Company's "principal accounting officer" through August 15, 2008.
     In connection with his resignation, the Company entered into a letter agreement with Mr. Brown, dated May 2, 2008 (the "Agreement"). Under the Agreement, Mr. Brown will continue as an employee of the Company until August 15, 2008 to assist with the transition of his responsibilities. Mr. Brown is entitled to cash severance payments equal to $750,000, payable in installments over the 18-month period following his last day of employment. Mr. Brown will be eligible to receive a bonus for fiscal 2008 as if he were a participant in the Company's management incentive compensation plan. The bonus will be based on a target award of 60% of Mr. Brown's base salary and the Company's achievement of performance parameters for fiscal 2008 established under this plan for other executive officers. In addition, Mr. Brown's award will not be adjusted based on individual performance. Mr. Brown will not be eligible for an annual incentive award for fiscal 2008 under the Company's 2007 Key Executive Officers Bonus Plan. Mr. Brown will remain eligible to participate in the Company's medical, retirement and deferred compensation plans until his last day of employment. The Company has also agreed, at its expense, to pay the cost of Mr. Brown's COBRA health benefits for a period of up to 18 months following his last day of employment; provided that such benefits will cease if Mr. Brown accepts new employment and receives health benefits under plans maintained by his new employer.
     The foregoing description of the Agreement is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1, and incorporated herein by reference.
Appointment of New Chief Financial Officer
     On April 30, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company authorized an offer to Herbert Parker to serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective June 2, 2008. The Company and Mr. Parker entered into a letter agreement, dated May 2, 2008 ("Letter Agreement"), which sets forth the terms of his employment. Under the terms of the Letter Agreement, the Company and Mr. Parker intend to also enter into a change-in-control severance agreement on terms similar to the agreement between the Company and the Company's Chief Executive Officer. The material terms of the Letter Agreement are described below.
     Mr. Parker, age 50, has served since 2006 as Chief Financial Officer in North America and as a member of the North American Executive Committee of ABB Inc., an affiliate of ABB
 
Ltd., a provider of technology-based power and automation products, systems, solutions and services. From 1980 to 2005, Mr. Parker served in various management positions with ABB, including Chief Financial Officer and Group Senior Vice President for the Automation Technologies Division.
     Under the Letter Agreement, Mr. Parker's annual base salary will be no less than $500,000 and he will be eligible to earn an annual incentive award up to 90% of his annual base salary. Mr. Parker will receive a bonus of $100,000 within five business days of his start date and an additional bonus of $162,500 on July 1, 2008.
     On his start date, Mr. Parker will receive stock options to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The options will vest 20% annually beginning one year from the grant date and will be granted under the Company's 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the "2002 Plan"). Mr. Parker will also receive on his start date a one-time award of approximately 52,000 stock options as a replacement for awards from his prior employer. The number of stock options is subject to adjustment, which could be significant, based on a comparison of the stock price of the Company and ABB over a period prior to Mr. Parker's start date. The options will vest 25% on February 2, 2009 and 75% on May 13, 2010. The exercise price of all stock options under the Letter Agreement will be equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the grant date.
     Mr. Parker will also receive an award of 5,500 shares of restricted stock on his start date. The shares of restricted stock will be granted under the 2002 Plan and will vest on June 2, 2011.
     If Mr. Parker's employment is terminated by the Company without cause within his first year of employment, he will be entitled to his then-current base salary and Company-paid COBRA benefits for one year. In addition, subject to the approval of the Compensation and Option Committee, Mr. Parker would also be entitled to immediate vesting of any equity awards granted pursuant to the Letter Agreement and would have 90 days to exercise his stock options.
     The Letter Agreement also entitles Mr. Parker to use of a company-leased automobile and participation in the Company's other employee benefit plans and programs.
     The foregoing summary is qualified by reference to the Letter Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Retirement of Chief Technology Officer
     As previously disclosed, Dr. Erich A. Geiger has an employment agreement with the Company with a term through August 31, 2008. Dr. Geiger has informed the Company that he intends to retire on August 31, 2008 and resign his position as the Company's Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer and Chief Technology Officer at that time. On May 5, 2008, the Board appointed Helmut Schinagel to serve as Chief Technology Officer of the Company, effective upon Dr. Geiger's retirement.
     Following his retirement, Dr. Geiger will provide consulting services to the Company on an exclusive basis. The terms of the consulting arrangement are governed by a letter agreement dated January 15, 2007 (the "Consulting Agreement"). Under the Consulting Agreement, Dr. Geiger
 
will serve as a consultant for three years exclusively to the Company and will be entitled to an annual retirement benefit equal to the greater of $988,755 or 50% of his average annual salary and bonus during the term of his employment agreement or the last five years of service under the employment agreement.
     The foregoing description of the Consulting Agreement is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Consulting Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 6, 2008

 
Exhibit 10.1
May 2, 2008
Mr. Kevin Brown 350 Tierra Mar Lane Sarasota, FL 34242
Dear Kevin:
     This letter agreement ("Agreement") will serve as acknowledgement of your resignation as Chief Financial Officer of Harman International Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") and our agreement concerning your status at the Company and your separation from employment.
1.
Resignation from Officer Position; Employment Continuation and Termination
     You have resigned your position as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary of the Company, effective as of May 31, 2008. Between June 1, 2008 and August 15, 2008 (the "Termination Date"), you shall continue as an employee and in the capacity as "principal accounting officer" of the Company, and your duties will include closing the Company's 2008 fiscal year financial books and audit and transitioning your job responsibilities as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. Through the Termination Date, you shall be paid at your current salary rate and shall remain eligible to participate in all Company-sponsored employee benefit plans and programs (including continued provision by the Company of a car for your use) at your current level of participation, and any options you have under a Company option plan shall continue to vest as if you remained a full-time employee.
2.
Effect of Employment Termination
     No later than ten (10) days after the Termination Date, the Company shall pay you a lump sum payment representing all unused vacation and sick leave accrued as of the Termination Date, which we agree on the Termination Date will total six (6) weeks. Following the Termination Date, you will not accrue any vacation or sick leave, and you will not be eligible to participate in any Company benefit plan, including the supplemental life and disability insurance benefit.
     You shall be reimbursed for all business expenses incurred through the Termination Date that are documented and submitted according to Company policy. The Company shall reimburse you promptly consistent with current procedures and in any event not later than the last day of the calendar year in which the expenses are incurred.
     Your election to defer compensation into the Company 401(k) Plan will terminate on the Termination Date. You will on that date be 100% vested in the Company employee match and profit-sharing contributions, and 100% vested in all other contributions to your 401(k) account. No distribution need be made from the account until age 70 /.
1
2
     Your election to defer compensation into the Company deferred compensation plan will terminate on the Termination Date. You will receive termination benefit payouts of your deferred compensation account balance per your irrevocable election(s), commencing six (6) months and one (1) day after the Termination Date.
 
May 2, 2008 Page 2
Mr. Kevin Brown
3.
Release of Claims and Post-Employment Benefits
     Provided that you execute the Agreement and Release ("Release") in the form set forth in to this Agreement within thirty (30) calendar days of the Termination Date and do not revoke it as provided therein, the Company shall provide you with the following:
Attachment A
     A. . Commencing on the Company's first regular payroll date following the Effective Date of the Release, severance pay in the amount of $750,000 as salary continuation, payable over a period of eighteen (18) months in equal bi-weekly installments, less deductions as required by law or authorized by you. If on the due date for any salary continuation severance payment the Company has not received all of the items required pursuant to Section 9 of the Release, such payment will be delayed until such items are returned but in no event past December 31, 2008. If the Effective Date of the Release has not occurred on or prior to December 31 of the calendar year, any payment that would have been paid by December 31 if the Effective Date of the Release occurred on the 40 date after termination of employment shall be forfeited.
Severance
th
     B. . You will be eligible for a bonus for fiscal 2008 under the Company's Management Incentive Compensation Plan for fiscal 2008 at a 60% target bonus level, based on the Company's achievement of the same performance parameters as have been set for other executives at your level, with the assumption that personal objectives have been fully achieved. Bonus payment will be based on final determination of achievement against the key Company objectives as outlined in the Management Incentive Compensation Plan. The bonus shall be paid to you when such bonuses are paid to other executives at your level, although it shall be paid no later than September 30, 2008. You shall not be eligible for a bonus under the Key Executive Officer Bonus Plan, or any bonus under any plan for fiscal year 2009 or any fiscal year thereafter.
Bonus
     C. . Subject to approval by the Company's board of directors or appropriate committee thereof, the Company shall extend to ninety (90) days following the Termination Date the time period in which you may exercise, in accordance with the terms of the Harman International 1992 Incentive Plan and the Harman International 2002 Option and Incentive Plan, your stock options that are vested as of the Termination Date. The Company shall, at the first opportunity, recommend such approval to the board of directors (or appropriate committee thereof).
Stock Options
     D. . As required by law, COBRA benefits will be offered to provide you with the same health benefits that you were entitled to receive immediately prior to the Termination Date, and you will then, to the extent (i) permitted by law and (ii) not inconsistent with the terms of the relevant employee health benefit plan, be permitted to continue coverage for eighteen (18) months following the Termination Date, under such plans as you desire. If you elect to continue health care continuation coverage under COBRA, subject to the last sentence of Section 3.A above, the Company shall pay for the cost of such coverage during the salary continuation period; that the Company may make any generally-applicable changes in such benefit plans it deems appropriate; that the Company's obligation to pay for the cost of such coverage shall cease when you find new employment and health care coverage commences under your new employer's benefit plans. The Company's Human Resources Department will provide you with information regarding your rights under COBRA.
COBRA Benefits
provided,
further provided,
 
May 2, 2008 Page 3
Mr. Kevin Brown
     E. . Until the expiration of six (6) months following the Termination Date or your commencing new employment, whichever first occurs, you shall be permitted to continue to use the car provided to you by the Company on the same terms as while you were employed by the Company (including without limitation payment by the Company for maintenance, insurance, gasoline, and related expenses). At any time during or at the end of this period you may purchase this car from the Company at the value at which it is then carried on the Company's books.
Use of Company Car
     F. . In view of the sale of your home and relocation as a result of your resignation, the Company shall pay you the sum of $34,500 as reimbursement for the closing costs you incurred in selling your Washington, D.C. condominium and for the cost of packing and transporting your personal goods, if you provide the Company with a copy of the HUD-1 form evidencing such closing costs. Such payment shall be made on the first regular payroll date of the Company after the Effective Date of the Release, subject to the last sentence of Section 3.A above, and shall be grossed up for tax purposes.
Relocation Payment
     G. . The Company will pay up to $25,000 toward outplacement services for you if such services are commenced within one year of the Termination Date; that in lieu of receiving outplacement services you may upon written notice to the Company elect to receive a payment of $25,000 instead, which shall be grossed up for tax purposes. Such payment shall be made on the first regular payroll date of the Company after the Effective Date of the Release, subject to the last sentence of Section 3.A above.
Outplacement Services; Payment In Lieu Thereof
provided,
     H. . You shall be permitted to retain the Company laptop computer and cell phone issued to you, as well as any docking station or other related peripheral equipment, provided that you first allow the Company to remove any Company information from the laptop computer.
Laptop Computer/Cell Phone
4.
Section 409A
     With respect to payments under this Agreement, for purposes of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A"), each severance payment and COBRA continuation reimbursement payment will be considered one of a series of separate payments, and your Termination Date will be treated as your separation from service. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if at the time of your separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A) (i) you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section 409A and using the identification methodology selected by the Company from time to time), and (ii) the Company makes a good faith determination that an amount payable hereunder constitutes deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) the payment of which is required to be delayed pursuant to the six-month delay rule set forth in Section 409A in order to avoid taxes or penalties under Section 409A, then the Company will not pay such amount on the otherwise scheduled payment date but will instead pay it in a lump sum on the first business day after such six-month period, subject to the last sentence of Section 3.A above.
     To the extent that there is a material risk that any payments under this Agreement or any equity grant may result in the imposition of an additional tax to you under Section 409A, the Company will reasonably cooperate with you to amend this Agreement and related documents
 
May 2, 2008 Page 4
Mr. Kevin Brown
such that such documents and payments thereunder comply with Section 409A without materially changing the economic value of this Agreement or the arrangements hereunder to either party.
5.
Other Provisions
     . With respect to your service as an officer and as an employee of the Company through the Termination Date, the Company (a) shall indemnify and hold you harmless (including advancement of reasonable legal fees) to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law (for claims based on any action or omission by you through the Termination Date, whether such claim arises or is brought before or after the Termination Date), both during your employment and after the Termination Date; (b) shall indemnify and hold you harmless (including advancement of legal fees) with respect to the remainder of your employment on the same terms and conditions as your indemnification while you served as an officer of the Company; (c) agrees that (subject to subsection (d) below) you will remain a beneficiary of or, if by such policy's terms you are not a beneficiary, you will receive the same benefits as a beneficiary of the Company's directors and officers or fiduciary liability policy on terms as least as favorable as currently in effect with respect to all periods of your employment; and (d) agrees that, if the Company changes the indemnification of directors and officers or any fiduciary liability policy provided to its officers and/or directors, you will receive the benefit from all such changes unless any such changes are less favorable than your current indemnification and directors and officers coverage; , however, in each such instance that you have agreed to joint representation by counsel for the Company until such time as a conflict of interest arises between you and the Company that precludes such joint representation.
Indemnification
provided
     . You shall not be required to mitigate any obligations of the Company under this Agreement by seeking other employment. The payments due to you under this Agreement shall not be subject to offset by any remuneration received from a subsequent employer. There shall be no offset against amounts or benefits due you under this Agreement or otherwise on account of any claim the Company may have against you.
No Mitigation; No Offset
     . Any public announcement or disclosure with respect to your status with and separation from the Company (including any filings or submissions to the Securities and Exchange Commission) shall state that you have voluntarily resigned your position and shall be subject to your prior review, except to the extent required under applicable law.
Announcements
     . The Company will pay your reasonable legal fees and disbursements, up to $10,000, relating to the negotiation and documentation of this Agreement, the Release and your separation arrangements, promptly upon presentation of invoices therefor and, to the extent such amount would be taxable to you, pay you an additional amount at such time so that you will have no after tax cost; however, that any such reimbursement will be made not later than the last day of the calendar year in which the expenses are incurred, and the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during any calendar year will not affect the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year. In addition to the foregoing, the Company shall pay the reasonable legal fees and disbursements incurred by you (and to the extent such payment would be taxable to you, an additional amount so that you will have no after tax cost) after signing this Agreement in the event the Company seeks any modifications to this Agreement
Attorneys Fees
provided,
 
May 2, 2008 Page 5
Mr. Kevin Brown
or the Release, that you obtain the Company's approval prior to engaging said counsel, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided
     . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one agreement, with the same force and effect as if all signatures had been made on one document.
Counterparts
     All parties represent that they have read this Agreement and fully understand all of its terms; that they have executed this Agreement without coercion or duress of any kind; and that they understand any rights they may have and sign this Agreement with full knowledge of all such rights. All parties further represent that they have had the opportunity to thoroughly discuss all aspects of this Agreement with its or his respective legal counsel.
     If the foregoing terms are completely satisfactory to you, please countersign the enclosed copy of this Agreement in the space provided and return the same to me at your earliest convenience, whereupon a binding contract will be formed. The date indicated and your signature below acknowledge your review, understanding and full, knowing and voluntary acceptance of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, including .
Attachment A
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the aforementioned parties, intending to be legally bound hereby, have executed this Agreement.
Foregoing read, understood and agreed to:
 
In consideration of the agreement by Harman International Industries, Inc. (the "Company" or "Employer") to provide the benefits described in Section 3 of the letter agreement between me and the Company dated May 2, 2008 (the "Agreement") and in consideration for the Company's other promises in the Agreement and herein, I agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
The date indicated and my signature below acknowledge my review, understanding and full, knowing and voluntary acceptance of the terms and conditions set forth in this Release.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I, intending to be legally bound hereby, have executed this Release.

 
Exhibit 10.2
May 2, 2008
Mr. Herbert K. Parker 9 Pepperbush Road Weston, CT 06883
Dear Herbert:
On behalf of Harman International Industries, Incorporated ("Harman"), I submit an offer for the position of EVP and Chief Financial Officer. In this capacity you will report directly to me and be a member of the Harman Executive Committee. You will be located at our Stamford, Connecticut office. This offer provides the following:
: Your start date will be June 2, 2008 or an earlier date should your employment with your current employer be terminated before May 30, 2008.
Start Date
: Your annual base salary will be $500,000, subject to annual review (for increase, but not decrease) commencing on September 1, 2009, and payable in accordance with our regular payroll schedule in Stamford, CT.
Base Salary
Within five business days after your start date, you will be paid a cash lump sum signing bonus in an aggregate amount of $100,000. In addition, you will receive a second cash lump sum bonus in an aggregate amount of $162,500 payable on July 1, 2008, as a replacement for your bonus from your former employer. This was calculated pro-rata for your months of service with your former employer and assumes that its performance targets for the current year will be met.
Signing Bonus:
: Beginning with fiscal year 2009, you will be eligible to participate in the Management Incentive Compensation program with a target bonus opportunity equal to 60% of your base salary and a 90% maximum. This bonus program is based upon Harman's achievement of its business plan, as well as your achievement of personal performance goals.
Bonus
: You will receive on your start date a one-time stock option award of approximately 52,000 shares of Harman common stock under the terms of Harman's 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan ("Plan") at a per share exercise price equal to the fair market value on the grant date. The final number of shares will be determined using the lattice-based model previously discussed. The option vesting dates will be 2/2/2009 and 5/13/2010.
LTI Replacement Value
: You will receive on your start date a one-time stock option award of 50,000 shares of Harman common stock under the terms of the Plan at a per share exercise price equal to the fair market value on the grant date. The option will vest 20% per year over five years commencing on the first anniversary of the grant date, with acceleration and other provisions as provided in the Plan and your option agreement. You will also be eligible for a stock option grant at the next general grant, at a level commensurate with your position.
Stock Options
You will receive a one-time award of 5,500 shares of restricted Harman common stock under the Plan, vesting on June 2, 2011, if you are employed by Harman on that date.
Restricted Stock:
 
May 2, 2008 Page 2
Mr. Herbert K. Parker
If your employment is terminated by Harman without "Cause" within the first year of employment, you will receive one year of salary continuation and company-paid COBRA benefits during the salary continuation period. Subject to the approval of the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board of Directors, your initial stock option grants and restricted stock award will vest upon such termination and you would have ninety (90) days thereafter within which to exercise, in accordance with the terms of the Plan, those stock options that are vested as of the Termination Date. "Cause" is defined in attached hereto. Such payments will be subject to the execution by you of a release substantially in the form attached hereto as . Your salary continuation payments would commence on the 60 day after your termination of employment; provided, however, that if on the due date for any salary continuation payment, all revocation periods have not then expired with respect to your release, such payment will be forfeited.
Severance:
Attachment A
Attachment B
th
: Effective as of your start date, Harman will enter into a "Change of Control" agreement with you in the form previously provided to you.
Change in Control
: You will have use of a company-leased automobile, with a lease payment of approximately $1,500 per month. Harman will bear the car expenses (gasoline, insurance, car tax, repairs) associated with the business use of the company car. You may use the company car for private purposes, however taxes imposed with respect to private usage will be borne by you.
Company Car
i.e.,
You will be eligible for accrual of four (4) weeks of vacation annually, pro-rated for 2008 based on your start date.
Vacation:
: Additional benefits, as defined by Company policy and governing plan documents, currently include medical, dental, vision, life insurance, short and long-term disability insurance, tuition reimbursement, 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan and all Company-paid holidays. Eligibility to participate in these benefits commences thirty (30) days after your date of hire, except for the 401(k) plan under which participation is available on the first plan enrollment date following 180 days of employment.
Other Benefits
: For purposes of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, each salary continuation payment and Company-paid COBRA benefit will be considered one of a series of separate payments. If at the time of your separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A), (i) you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section 409A and using the identification methodology selected by Harman from time to time) and (ii) Harman makes a good faith determination that an amount payable hereunder constitutes deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A) the payment of which is required to be delayed pursuant to the six-month delay rule set forth in Section 409A in order to avoid taxes or penalties under Section 409A, then Harman will not pay such amount on the otherwise scheduled payment date but will instead pay it, without interest, on the first business day after such six-month period, subject to the release requirements noted above. To the extent that there is a material risk that any payments under this letter, the change in control agreement or any grant may result in the imposition of an additional tax to you under Section 409A, the company will reasonably cooperate with you to amend this letter and related documents such that such documents and payments thereunder comply with Section 409A without materially changing the economic value of this letter or the arrangements hereunder to either party.
Section 409A
The Company will, in connection with your employment, withhold from any compensation and benefits payable to you all federal, state, city and other taxes as requested by you or that the Company is required to withhold pursuant to any law or government regulation or ruling.
 
May 2, 2008 Page 3
Mr. Herbert K. Parker
Harman is not hereby offering you lifetime employment or employment for a fixed or implied period of time. Either you or Harman may terminate your employment at any time, with or without cause or notice. The at-will nature of your employment relationship cannot be changed except in a written document signed by you and me. Upon termination of your employment, Harman will have no further obligations to you under this letter agreement except to the extent provided under "Severance" above.
Any dispute concerning termination of your employment shall be resolved by final and binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator. The arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement or in accordance with the procedures of the American Arbitration Association and the employment arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association shall apply. Such arbitration shall be conducted in Stamford, Connecticut or such other location as to which you and Harman agree. The law of Connecticut, without regard to its choice of law rules, shall govern any such dispute, and the arbitrator shall not have authority to vary or alter the terms of this letter.
You will be expected to sign the Company's standard form of Invention and Secrecy Agreement (see ) on your start date.
Attachment C
You acknowledge and agree that your acceptance of this offer will violate no agreements or arrangements with other individuals or entities, or duties to your current employer. Please sign and return the original of this letter. You should retain one copy of this letter for your files.
I look forward to working with you again and welcome the contributions you will bring to this outstanding company.
Best regards,
 
May 2, 2008 Page 4
Mr. Herbert K. Parker
I accept your offer of employment and agree to the provisions stated in this letter. I acknowledge and agree that this letter constitutes the entire agreement between Harman and me and supersedes all prior verbal or written agreements, arrangements or understandings pertaining to my offer of employment. I understand that I am employed at will and that my employment can be terminated at any time, with or without cause, at the option of either the Company or me.
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
 
"Cause" means:
 
In consideration of the agreement by Harman International Industries, Inc. (the "Company" or "Employer") to provide the benefits described in Section 3 of the letter agreement between me and the Company dated May 2, 2009 (the "Agreement") and in consideration for the Company's other promises in the Agreement and herein, I agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
The date indicated and my signature below acknowledge my review, understanding and full, knowing and voluntary acceptance of the terms and conditions set forth in this Release.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I, intending to be legally bound hereby, have executed this Release.


