FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20080923162728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On September 17, 2008, the Compensation and Option Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") approved, among other things, a grant of 28,344 restricted stock units to Herbert Parker, the Company's Chief Financial Officer. For each restricted stock unit, Mr. Parker will receive a cash payment equal to the market value of the Company's common stock on the vesting date. On February 2, 2009, 23,595 of the restricted stock units will vest. The remaining 4,749 restricted stock units will vest on May 13, 2010.
     In addition, the Committee approved annual equity awards for fiscal 2008 to the Company's executive officers, including Dinesh Paliwal, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Paliwal's letter agreement, as amended, provides that his annual equity awards will vest 20% each year commencing on the first anniversary of the grant date. However, consistent with the equity awards granted to the Company's other executive officers, the awards for Mr. Paliwal include 72,748 stock options that vest 33% each year commencing on the first anniversary of the grant date and 50,000 restricted stock units that vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.
     The Committee also approved, subject to stockholder approval, the 2008 Key Executive Officers' Bonus Plan, which amends and restates the 2007 Key Executive Officers' Bonus Plan. The new plan will replace the stockholder equity goal with performance measures consistent with the Company's Management Incentive Compensation Plan. The Committee also approved amendments to the Company's 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. The amendments include an increase in the number of shares authorized for issuance and changes to the plan's performance measures. The Company intends to include proposals seeking stockholder approval of changes to both plans in the Company's proxy statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 23, 2008


