FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20090901170654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendment to Dinesh Paliwal Letter Agreement
On September 1, 2009, Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") and Dinesh Paliwal, the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Company, entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to the Letter Agreement dated May 8, 2007 between the Company and Mr. Paliwal (the "Letter Agreement"), as amended by the amendments dated November 29, 2007 and December 31, 2008.
Pursuant to the terms of the Amendment, for fiscal years commencing with the Company's 2010 fiscal year, Mr. Paliwal will become eligible, on a basis commensurate with his title and position, for an annual cash target bonus opportunity equal to 200% of his base salary and a maximum bonus of 300% of his base salary (the "Annual Bonus"). The Annual Bonus will be based upon the Company's achievement of its business plan targets as established annually by the Compensation and Option Committee (the "Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors, consistent with the Company's 2008 Key Executive Officers Bonus Plan or its successor. All or a portion of the Annual Bonus will be awarded pursuant to the terms of the Company's 2008 Key Executive Officers Bonus Plan, or a successor plan. The Annual Bonus will be paid no later than March 15th of the calendar year immediately following the end of the applicable fiscal year.
Also pursuant to the Amendment, Mr. Paliwal will receive an equity award for fiscal year 2010 of 81,967 shares of time-based vesting restricted share units and 163,934 shares of performance-based vesting restricted share units, the terms of which are more fully described below under the caption "Fiscal 2010 Equity Awards."
Under the Amendment, beginning in fiscal year 2011, Mr. Paliwal will become eligible for an annual equity grant (the "Annual Equity Award") on a basis commensurate with his title and position. With respect to each of the Company's 2011, 2012 and 2013 fiscal years, the Annual Equity Award will be in the form of two restricted share unit grants, one of which will be a time-based vesting award having a grant date total value of at least 200% of his base salary, and the other of which will be a performance-based vesting award providing an opportunity to earn, assuming achievement of the maximum level of performance, an amount of shares of Company common stock with a grant date value equal to 400% of his base salary. The terms of the Annual Equity Award will be determined by the Compensation and Option Committee (the "Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors. However, in no event will the vesting period of the Annual Equity Award exceed three years, and the agreement setting forth the Annual Equity Award will provide for accelerated vesting upon a protected termination, as such term is defined in the Letter Agreement, and a change in control.
The Annual Equity Award replaces the annual equity grant and the special bonus tied to enterprise value contemplated by the Letter Agreement.
The foregoing descriptions of the Letter Agreement and the Amendment are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Letter Agreement and the Amendment, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 and are incorporated herein by reference.
Fiscal 2010 Equity Awards
On August 26, 2009, the Committee approved annual equity awards to its executive officers for fiscal 2010. The grant date of the awards is September 1, 2009, and they will be issued under the Company's Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. The Committee believes that
annual equity awards serve as a long-term retention tool and align employee and stockholder interests by increasing compensation as stockholder value increases. For fiscal 2010, the Committee structured the awards as follows: one-third of the total value of the equity award was granted as time-based vesting restricted share units ("Time-Based RSUs") and two-thirds of the total value of the equity award was granted as performance-based vesting restricted share units ("Performance-Based RSUs"). For fiscal year 2010, the following awards were granted to the Company's executive officers:
 
The number of shares of Time-Based RSUs and Performance-Based RSUs was determined by using the average of the closing price for the Company's common stock, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, for the ten trading days ending on August 25, 2009.
The Time-Based RSUs will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date if the executive remains employed by the Company through such date, subject to acceleration upon certain qualifying terminations.
The Performance-Based RSUs will vest at the end of a performance period if the executive remains employed by the Company over the performance period, subject to acceleration upon certain qualifying terminations. The performance period is the three-year period ending June 30, 2012. Payout under the Performance-Based RSUs can range from 0% to 100%. The amount of the payout will be determined based on the Company's achievement of net revenue and cost initiative goals (measured through operating margin) in fiscal 2012. Operating margin is calculated by dividing the Company's operating income (excluding restructuring costs, goodwill and any other one time items), by the Company's net revenue.
The Time-Based Restricted Share Unit Agreement and Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit Agreement for Mr. Paliwal are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.5 and 10.6, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The awards of Time-Based RSUs and Performance-Based RSUs to the other executive officers of the Company will be evidenced by, and subject to the terms and provisions of, agreements in substantially the forms previously filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 1, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.4
September 1, 2009
Mr. Dinesh Paliwal
Dear Dinesh:
Reference is made to the Letter Agreement, dated as of May 8, 2007, as amended on November 29, 2007 and December 26, 2008 (the ""), by and between Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "") and you. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Letter Agreement.
Letter Agreement
Company
The purpose of this letter is to evidence certain additional understandings between you and the Company, as follows:
1. : Effective with the Company's fiscal year commencing July 1, 2009 (""), you will be eligible for an annual cash target bonus opportunity equal to 200% of your Base Salary and a maximum bonus of 300% of your Base Salary (the ""). The Annual Bonus shall be based upon Harman's achievement of its business plan targets as established annually by the Compensation Committee consistent with the Company's 2008 Key Executive Officers Bonus Plan or its successor (the ""). All or a portion of the Annual Bonus shall be awarded pursuant to the terms of the Bonus Plan or other applicable bonus plan, and the Annual Bonus shall be paid no later than March 15th of the calendar year immediately following the end of the applicable fiscal year. Your eligibility for the Annual Bonus shall be in lieu of, and not in addition to, any other rights that you may have to participate in the Bonus Plan. The provisions of this paragraph supersede the terms of Paragraph 5 of the Letter Agreement.
Annual Bonus
Fiscal 2010
Annual Bonus
Bonus Plan
2. : As of the date hereof, you will receive a time-based vesting restricted share unit grant in respect of 81,967 shares of Company common stock, in the form of grant set forth as Exhibit A hereto, and a performance-based vesting restricted share unit grant in respect of 163,934 shares of Company common stock, in the form of grant set forth as Exhibit B hereto.
Fiscal 2010 Restricted Share Unit Awards
3. . Paragraph 6 of the Letter Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety, it being understood that such deletion shall not affect the terms of any outstanding awards granted prior to Fiscal 2010. With respect to the Company's fiscal years commencing July 1, 2010, 2011 and 2012, you will be eligible for annual equity grants on a basis commensurate with your title and position at the Company (the "") under the Company's then in-force equity award plan. The Annual Equity Awards in respect of an amount of Company common shares will have a grant date total opportunity equal to at least 600% of your Base Salary, with time-based vesting awards having a grant date total value of at least 200% of your Base Salary (a "") and the opportunity to earn (assuming achievement of the maximum level of performance) the remaining portion of the total
Future Equity Grants
Annual Equity Awards
Future Time-Based Award
value of the Annual Equity Awards as a performance-based vesting award (a ""). The form and provisions of each Future Time-Based Award shall be established in good-faith by the Compensation Committee, that, except as otherwise agreed between you and the Compensation Committee, each Time-Based Award shall (i) have a vesting period of no more than three years from the applicable grant date and (ii) provide for full accelerated vesting upon a Protected Termination and a change in control. The form and provisions of each Future Performance-Based Award shall be established in good-faith by the Compensation Committee, that, except as otherwise agreed between you and the Compensation Committee, each Future Performance-Based Award shall (i) have a vesting period of no more than three years from the applicable grant date with all performance metrics and goals to be established by the Compensation Committee and (ii) provide for (A) upon a Protected Termination on or prior to the date that is six months from the date of grant, vesting of 50% of the number of Future Performance-Based Awards determined to be earned based on the achievement of the applicable performance metrics and goals, (B) upon a Protected Termination following the date that is six months after the date of grant, full vesting of the number of Future Performance-Based Awards determined to be earned based on the achievement of the applicable performance metrics and goals, and (C) upon a change in control, vesting consistent with the change in control vesting methodology set forth in Section 4(b) of Exhibit B attached hereto; , , , that such Future Performance-Based Award on a Protected Termination will be paid or settled only if the applicable threshold, target and/or maximum performance metrics and goals have been determined to have been met by the Compensation Committee at the end of the applicable performance cycle. To the extent that the required grant amounts exceed any applicable equity plan limits, you and the Compensation Committee will mutually agree on an alternative compensation award equal to the value of such excess. The grant date value of each Annual Equity Award shall be determined based on the fair market value of the shares of Company common stock (or that of any successor) (or, in the case of stock options and stock appreciation rights, the value of such stock options or stock appreciation rights) on the date of grant, applying the methodology employed by the Company for awarding equity compensation awards. Each Annual Equity Award will provide for an automatic reduction in the number of shares otherwise required to be delivered to you, as applicable, to cover minimum required withholding (and exercise price, if applicable) unless and to the extent such reduction is prohibited by a material financing or other agreement that restricts the ability of the Company to permit such reduction. With respect to the Company's fiscal years commencing July 1, 2013 and thereafter, you will be eligible for annual equity incentive awards on a basis commensurate with your title and position at the Company.
Future Performance-Based Award
provided
provided
provided
further
however
4. . Section 7(f) of the Letter Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety, and you shall have no further rights under such deleted Section 7(f).
Deletion of Section 7(f)
This letter is intended to constitute an amendment to the Letter Agreement which, subject to the provisions hereof, shall otherwise remain in full force and effect. In order to evidence your agreement to the foregoing, please sign and return the enclosed copy of this document, which shall constitute a binding agreement between the Company and you.
Sincerely,
 

Exhibit 10.5
THIS RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of September 1, 2009, is entered into between HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Dinesh Paliwal ("Grantee"). Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings assigned to those terms in the Company's Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan").
A. Grantee is an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company; and
B. The execution of this Agreement in the form hereof has been authorized by the Compensation and Option Committee of the Board (the "Committee").
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises and the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Company and Grantee agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Either the Company or Grantee may change the above designated address by written notice to the other specifying such new address.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed by a duly authorized representative of the Company on the day and year first above written.
 
The undersigned Grantee acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Agreement and accepts the Restricted Share Units subject to the applicable terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
THIS RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of September 1, 2009, is entered into between HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Dinesh Paliwal ("Grantee"). Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings assigned to those terms in the Company's Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan").
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises and the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Company and Grantee agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Either the Company or Grantee may change the above designated address by written notice to the other specifying such new address.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is executed by a duly authorized representative of the Company on the day and year first above written.
 
The undersigned Grantee acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Agreement and accepts the Restricted Share Units subject to the applicable terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.
 
 
The number of Performance-Earned Units shall be determined as soon as practicable following the conclusion of the Company's fiscal year concluding June 30, 2012 ("Fiscal 2012"), based on the Company's achievement of revenue and cost initiative goals (measured through operating margin), pursuant to the following steps:
1. First, the Company shall determine whether two threshold goals have been achieved: Performance-Earned Units shall equal zero upon the occurrence of either of the following: (i) Net Revenue (as defined below) of less than $2,750,000,000,* or (ii) Operating Margin (as defined below) of less than 3%. If Net Revenue equals or exceeds $2,750,000,000 and Operating Margin equals or exceeds 3%, the determination of Performance-Earned Units shall continue with the next paragraph.
2. Second, the "Target Operating Margin Goal" shall be determined based upon Net Revenue, as follows: If Net Revenue for Fiscal 2012 is at least $2,750,000,000 but not greater than $3,000,000,000, the Target Operating Margin Goal shall equal 7%. If Net Revenue for Fiscal 2012 exceeds $3,000,000,000 but is below $4,000,000,000, the Target Operating Margin Goal shall equal (i) 8% minus (ii) .1 additional percentage point for each $100,000,000 by which Net Revenue is below $4,000,000,000, rounded to the nearest .001%. If Net Revenue for Fiscal 2012 equals or exceeds $4,000,000,000, the Target Operating Margin Goal shall equal (i) 8% plus (ii) .1 additional percentage point for each $50,000,000 by which Net Revenue exceeds $4,000,000,000, rounded to the nearest .001%, up to a maximum of 11%. The table below illustrates by example the determination of the Target Operating Margin Goal.
 
3. Third, the "Threshold Operating Margin Goal" shall be determined. The Threshold Operating Margin Goal shall equal (x) the Target Operating Margin Goal minus (y) 4 percentage points.
4. Fourth, the "Maximum Operating Margin Goal" shall be determined. The Maximum Operating Margin Goal shall equal (x) the Target Operating Margin Goal plus (y) 4 percentage points. The table below illustrates by example the determination of the Maximum Operating Margin Goal.
 
 
5. Fifth, the number of Performance-Earned Units shall be determined in accordance with the following matrix, based upon the actual Operating Margin achieved:
 
The number of Performance-Earned Units shall be determined based upon straight-line interpolation in the event that Operating Margin achieved falls between the Threshold Operating Margin Goal and the Target Operating Margin Goal, or between the Target Operating Margin Goal and the Maximum Operating Margin Goal.
6. . For purposes of this Exhibit A, the following definitions and rules shall apply:
Definitions and Rules
"" shall mean United States generally accepted accounting principles.
GAAP
"" shall mean the percentage determined in accordance with step #4 above.
Maximum Operating Margin Goal
"" shall equal the Company's net revenue (determined in accordance with GAAP) for Fiscal 2012.
Net Revenue
"" shall equal the quotient determined by dividing (x) the Company's operating income (excluding restructuring costs, goodwill and any other one time items) for Fiscal 2012, determined in accordance with GAAP as consistently applied by the Company, by (y) the Company's Net Revenue, and multiplying by 100%.
Operating Margin
"" shall mean the percentage determined in accordance with step #2 above.
Target Operating Margin Goal
"" shall mean the percentage determined in accordance with step #3 above.
Threshold Operating Margin Goal
Goals (including threshold goals) and targets shall be adjusted by the Committee to reflect (i) "one time" items, such as restructuring costs, goodwill write-offs, merger related costs, etc., as disclosed in the Company's financial statements included with its Forms 10-Q and 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (ii) acquisitions or divestitures that are required to be disclosed by the Company on Form 8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or, to the extent such acquisition or divestiture would have otherwise been required
 
to be disclosed on a Form 8-K, if the Form 8-K disclosure requirement can be satisfied by including such disclosure on a Form 10-K or 10-Q filing by the Company, such other Form as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and (iii) changes in GAAP after the Date of Grant to the extent that such change in GAAP is applicable to the calculations herein.
 


