FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20090213100216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 11, 2009, the Board of Directors of Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the ) approved a form of indemnification letter agreement (), and authorized the Company to enter into the Indemnification Agreement with each of its directors and executive officers.  The Indemnification Agreement provides that any amendment or repeal of the rights of a director or executive officer to indemnification and expense advancement under Article VIII of the Amended and Restated Bylaws shall only apply prospectively and will not adversely affect any facts, occurrence, action or omission existing at or prior to such amendment or repeal.  The Indemnification Agreement also affirms that the rights set forth in Article VIII of the Amended and Restated Bylaws are contract rights.
Company
Indemnification Agreement
The foregoing summary of the Indemnification Agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Indemnification Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  February 13, 2009
 
 
2
 
 

Ebit 99.1
xhi
 
[Indemnitee Name]
[Address]
Dear [_____________],
Reference is hereby made to Article VIII of the bylaws of Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the Company) as in effect as of the date hereof (the Company Indemnity Bylaw).  In consideration of your prior and continuing service to the Company and in order to eliminate any ambiguity in the event of any purported amendment, modification, alteration or repeal of the Company Indemnity Bylaw that might otherwise diminish, limit, restrict, adversely affect or eliminate any of your rights to indemnification, advancement of expenses or otherwise under the Company Indemnity Bylaw, this will confirm that any such purported amendment, modification, alteration or repeal shall be prospective only and shall not in any way diminish, limit, restrict, adversely affect or eliminate any such right with respect to any actual or alleged state of facts, occurrence, action or omission then or previously existing, or any action, suit or proceeding previously or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such actual or alleged state of facts, occurrence, action or omission.  The Company hereby agrees that your rights under the Company Indemnity Bylaw are contract rights that shall be incorporated into this letter agreement and shall continue, without amendment or repeal, even in the event that you cease your association with the Company and that such rights shall be for your benefit and for the benefit of your heirs, executors and administrators.  This letter agreement may not be amended or modified except by an instrument in writing signed by both parties hereto.
This letter agreement shall be governed by Delaware law.
If you agree with the foregoing, please acknowledge by executing a copy of this letter and returning it to the Company.
Accepted and Agreed to:
 
 


