FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20090313190038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
(EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN CHARTER)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 10, 2009, Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the Company) drew down $100 million in principal amount, and on March 13, 2009 the Company drew down $40 million in principal amount, under its $300 million revolving bank credit facility.  In light of current uncertainty in the credit markets and continued weakness in the global automotive industry, the Company believes it is prudent to take this step to increase its cash position and afford it additional financial flexibility.  The Company plans to use the funds for general corporate purposes.
The credit facility was established pursuant to the Amended and Restated Multi-Currency, Multi-Option Credit Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2006, by and among the Company, Harman Holding GmbH & Co. KG, the financial institutions party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the administrative agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as the arranger, and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Bayerische Hypo  Und Vereinsbank AG, New York Branch, and Bank of Tokyo  Mitsubishi Trust Company, as syndication agents (the Credit Agreement).  These revolving loans will mature on June 28, 2010.  Subsequent to the borrowings described above, the outstanding balance of the credit facility is approximately $296 million, including $290 million outstanding in loans and approximately $6 million in outstanding letters of credit.
A description of the terms of the credit facility and a copy of the Credit Agreement were provided in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 26, 2006, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  March 13, 2009
 
 


