FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20100429073821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 29, 2010, Harman International Industries, Incorporated issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
See Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" above.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 29, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
Harman International Delivers Solid Third-Quarter Revenue and EPS Growth
 
 
 
 
 
Stamford, CT, April 29, 2010  Harman International (NYSE: HAR), the leading global audio and infotainment group, today announced results for the Third Quarter FY 2010 ending March 31, 2010. Net sales for the quarter were $848 million, an increase of 42 percent compared to the same period last year. Excluding foreign currency translation, net sales increased by 36 percent. Excluding non-recurring items, the third quarter generated a non-GAAP operating profit of $37 million, compared to a non-GAAP operating loss of ($72) million last year. On the same non-GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share were $0.31 for the quarter compared to a loss per diluted share of ($0.93) last year. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share were $0.26 for the quarter compared to loss per diluted share of ($1.17) last year.
"We are very pleased by the clear impact of our initiatives to accelerate new product introductions, reduce costs and increase productivity, combined with some encouraging improvement in key markets," said Dinesh C. Paliwal, the Company's Chairman, President and CEO. "Our culture of relentless execution is starting to pay off as we deliver upon pent-up market demand, and our customers continue to reward us with new business. We are sharpening our portfolio through strategic partnerships and we are exploring potential acquisitions that would complement organic growth. We are accelerating our brand marketing activities in both established and emerging markets to reinforce the profitable growth potential that is characterizing a new and energized HARMAN."
 
 
Summary of Operations Fiscal 2010  Third Quarter
Net sales in the third quarter were $848 million, an increase of 42 percent, or 36 percent when adjusted for constant currency, compared to the same period in the prior year. Net sales increased in all three divisions and the Company gained market share in the Automotive Division.
Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter increased 7.9 percentage points to 26.8 percent. The gross margin improvement was primarily due to higher factory utilization associated with increased sales, improved product mix in the Automotive Division, and improved productivity as a result of STEP Change initiatives. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter was $191 million compared to $185 million, and flat when adjusted for constant currency. As a percentage of sales, SG&A declined 8.4 percentage points from 30.9% to 22.5%.
Operating income on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter was $37 million compared to an operating loss of ($72) million last year. On a GAAP basis, operating profit was $31 million compared to an operating loss of ($92) million.
HARMAN continues to execute ahead of schedule on its $400 million STEP Change permanent cost-savings program. The Company has achieved $321 million in permanent savings through March 31, 2010, compared to a target of $265 million.
At March 31, 2010, the Company's cash and short term investments balance was $424 million compared to $630 million in the prior quarter. The decrease in cash was primarily the result of the pay down of the Company's revolving credit facility in January, partly offset by positive cash from operations. The Company secured an amendment to a debt covenant in the indenture for its convertible senior notes in January which had previously restricted future borrowings, including borrowings under the revolving credit facility. This amendment now allows the Company to more efficiently manage its debt and related interest expense.
Mid-Term Guidance and Strategic Initiatives
Given better revenue visibility from awarded business and stabilizing markets, the Company is announcing mid-term guidance for sales, operating profit and earnings per share for Fiscal Year 2013 as shown in the table below.
 
The Company announced during April that it has reached agreement with Research in Motion (NASDAQ:RIMM; TSX:RIM) to sell its QNX Software Systems business for a cash price of approximately $200 million. This strategic move is expected to further strengthen Harman's position in the automotive market through faster innovation in mobile connectivity. The transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is anticipated to close in the fourth quarter.
In a separate press release, Harman said today that it has reached agreement to acquire Eletrnica Selenium S/A of Brazil, a leading provider of professional and consumer audio solutions. The deal is subject to final documentation and is expected to close within four to six weeks.
The Company also announced in April that it has reached agreement with China's Neusoft Corporation (600718SH) to transfer employees and certain assets located at the Company's facility in Hamburg, Germany. The parties have also entered into an engineering and software development services agreement related to advanced technologies. The two companies will operate joint development centers in Shenyang, China and Hamburg, Germany.
.
In order to improve penetration of its strong brand portfolio, the Company has implemented a new corporate identity architecture that best characterizes its position as the leading global house of brands for premium audio and infotainment. A new HARMAN corporate brand logo has been introduced, and the HARMAN name will accompany established product brand logos on digital, print and packaging materials. The Company's aggressive strategy will be communicated this week in leading business publications including and
The Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Financial Times
Fortune.
Complementing its rapid expansion into the emerging markets, HARMAN will have a featured presence at the Shanghai World Expo which opens May 1 in China. HARMAN sound systems are installed at every permanent Expo venue, more than 25 specialty venues and HARMAN is also serving as Official Sound Partner to the USA Pavilion. In cooperation with the Expo organizers, the U.S. State Department and other exhibitors, the Company will inform and entertain an expected 70 million visitors to the six-month-long exposition.
At the time of issuing this press release, HARMAN is in advanced discussions with a leading global automaker to finalize the second implementation of the Company's scalable, next-generation automotive infotainment system.
 
"I am delighted by the new energy across our team, which is revealed in an unprecedented number of initiatives for innovation, operational excellence, brand awareness and portfolio management", said Paliwal. "This new enthusiasm is complemented by our four strategic business pillars. We will develop cutting-edge "smart" infotainment solutions, increase market penetration of branded audio solutions, achieve our industry's best-in-class cost and capital structure, and grow aggressively in the emerging markets. This is reinforced by today's announcement of our planned acquisition of Selenium. We remain committed to continuous improvement in the value we deliver to customers, investors and employees."
Investor Call and Analyst Day on April 29, 2010
The Company will conduct the following activities today in conjunction with its Third Quarter FY2010 results:
 
 
 
General Information
HARMAN (www.harman.com) designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The Company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 20 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 11,000 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported sales of $3.2 billion for the last twelve months ended March 31, 2010. The Company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures included in this press release to the most comparable GAAP measures is provided in the tables contained at the end of this press release. HARMAN does not intend for this information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-Looking Information
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters discussed are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. One should not place undue reliance on these statements. We base these statements on particular assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience, as well as our perception of historical trends, current market conditions, current economic data, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements, including but not limited to (1) our ability to successfully implement our STEP Change cost reduction initiatives and to achieve the intended benefits and anticipated savings of those initiatives; (2) our ability to maintain profitability in our automotive division; (3) the loss of one or more significant customers, or the loss of a significant platform with an automotive customer; (4) warranty obligations for defects in our products; (5) our ability to successfully implement our global footprint initiative, including achieving cost reductions and other benefits in connection with the restructuring of our manufacturing, engineering, procurement and administrative organizations; (6) the inability of our suppliers to deliver products at the scheduled rate and disruptions arising in connection therewith; (7) our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and to prepare and implement an appropriate succession plan for our critical organizational positions; (8) our failure to implement and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program; (9) our failure to comply with governmental rules and regulations, including FCPA and U.S. export control laws, and the cost of compliance with such laws; (10) our ability to maintain a competitive technological advantage through innovation and leading product designs; (11) acceptance by OEMs and customers of our mid-platform infotainment system; (12) the outcome of pending or future litigation and other claims, including, but not limited to the current stockholder and ERISA lawsuits; (13) our ability to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property; and (14) other risks detailed in Harman International's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and other filings made by Harman International with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
Automotive Division net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were $630 million, an increase of 55 percent, or 48 percent when adjusted for constant currency, compared to the same period in the prior year. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter increased 10.2 percentage points to 23.1 percent. The gross profit margin improvement was due to improved leverage of fixed manufacturing expenses as a result of higher sales volume and improved product mix.
SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter was $115 million compared to $119 million in the prior year, a decrease of 4 percent or 8 percent on a constant currency basis. The decrease was primarily the result of lower bad debt expense. As a percentage of sales, SG&A declined by 11.2 percentage points from 29.4% to 18.2%.
The Company announced in April that Sachin Lawande and Michael Mauser have been appointed as Co-Presidents of its Automotive Division. Both will serve as members of the Company's Group Executive Committee, reporting to the Chief Executive Officer. The two executives' collective expertise in technology, finance and project management is complementary and provides a strong leadership platform to grow profitably and deliver on the Company's $10 billion awarded audio and infotainment business with a sharp focus on innovation and execution.
The HARMAN Automotive Division successfully launched its Harman Kardon sound system in the BMW 1-Series and 3-Series and the Mercedes-Benz E-Class Convertible during March 2010. The division showcased its energy-saving GreenEdge technology in concept cars from innovation leaders Lotus Engineering, Rinspeed, Tesla and RUF, and unveiled a new concept for electric vehicle charging stations with leading German utility company RWE.
 
 
 
Consumer Division net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were $81 million, an increase of 18 percent, or 13 percent when adjusted for constant currency, compared to the same period in the prior year. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter increased 5.5 percentage points to 27.8 percent. The gross profit margin improvement was primarily due to improved leverage of fixed manufacturing expenses as a result of higher sales volume. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter was $23 million compared to $23 million in the prior year. As a percentage of sales, SG&A declined by 5.3 percentage points from 33.3% to 28.0%.
HARMAN Consumer Division has rolled out nearly 350 in-store displays in Europe, featuring an active demonstration of the 5.1 Harman Kardon 3-D Surround Sound System for flat screen TVs. HARMAN opened its first US store-within-a-store at the nation's largest home furnishings outlet, Nebraska Furniture Mart.
Sound for Vision
The JBL K2 speaker series received Japan's most prestigious Grand Prix Golden Sound Award. The JBL brand has been honored an unprecedented six times with this award.
 
 
 
n.m. = Not Meaningful
Professional Division net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were $126 million, an increase of 10 percent, or 8 percent when adjusted for constant currency, compared to the same period in the prior year. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter increased 5.6 percentage points to 40.3 percent. The gross profit margin improvement was due to several new product launches this quarter and improved leverage of fixed manufacturing expenses as a result of higher sales volumes. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the third quarter was $32 million compared to $28 million in the same period last year.
The HARMAN Professional Division launched 49 new products during the third quarter, including the new JBL speakers, Crown amplifiers, DigiTech guitar processors, and Lexicon reverb processors. The Division's High-Performance Audio/Video products were exhibited at the Architectural Digest Show in New York. BSS Audio units were installed in the world's tallest building, Dubai's Burj Khalifa.
New HARMAN professional audio systems debuted this spring at numerous high-profile sporting venues including the Minnesota Twins ballpark, Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, the Atlanta Falcons' Georgia Dome, Meadowlands Stadium in New Jersey, the University of Louisville complex and the Indianapolis Convention Center. The Company's AKG brand was honored by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences with a Technical GRAMMY award for its 60 years of contributions to the science of sound.
 
 
 
n.m. = Not Meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring and goodwill impairment charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring and goodwill impairment charges incurred during the first nine months of fiscal 2010. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring and goodwill impairment charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2009. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring and goodwill impairment charges incurred during the first nine months of fiscal 2009. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 


