FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20101102082343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 2, 2010, Harman International Industries, Incorporated issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
See Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" above.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 2, 2010

 
Exhibit 99.1
November 2, 2010  For Immediate Release
 
HARMAN Reports Double-Digit Sales Growth and 5.6 Percentage Point Improvement in Operating Margin
 
 
 
 
Stamford, CT, November 2, 2010  Harman International Industries, Incorporated, the leading global audio and infotainment group (NYSE: HAR), today announced results for the first quarter ended September 30, 2010. Net sales for the quarter were $837 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to the same period last year. In local currency, net sales increased by 19 percent. First quarter operating income was $43 million, an improvement of $47 million versus a prior year loss. Earnings from continuing operations per diluted share were $0.39 for the quarter compared to a loss per diluted share of ($0.17) in the same period last year. On a non-GAAP basis, earnings from continuing operations were $0.35 compared to a loss of ($0.08) in the same period last year.
"We are very pleased by this continued progress, marking four consecutive quarters of year-on-year improvement in both top line and profitability," said Dinesh C. Paliwal, the Company's Chairman, President and CEO. "Our innovation pipeline and our $12 billion backlog of awarded business reinforce HARMAN's leadership position. Our successful STEP Change cost reduction program and emerging markets footprint expansion are yielding both cost advantages and new market opportunities. Our recent two-notch credit upgrades reflect our strong balance sheet, new business awards, permanent cost reductions and improved conditions in our served markets."
"During the last three years, we have transformed the Company's global footprint, created a best in class cost structure and installed world class business processes," Paliwal added. "Harman is now focusing on profitable growth, both organic and through acquisitions. After posting triple digit growth in emerging markets last year, we are adding significant new capacity to meet the rising domestic demand in China and other emerging markets. We have a strong balance sheet and we are generating positive cash flow. Our recent acquisitions of Selenium in Brazil and Aha Mobile in the US are having a positive impact. We will continue to look for companies in both western and emerging markets which have attractive valuations, key technologies, and strong sales channels."
Summary of Continuing Operations
Gross margin increased to 26.8 percent for the first quarter ended September 30, 2010, an improvement of 1.1 percentage points. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis increased to 26.7 percent for the first quarter, an improvement of 0.9 percentage points. SG&A expense as a percentage of sales on a non-GAAP basis for the first quarter was reduced by 3.4 percentage points to 22.0 percent. The Company's improved operating margin was primarily driven by higher sales, improved productivity, and lower restructuring expense. HARMAN continues to execute ahead of schedule on its $400 million STEP Change cost-savings program and has achieved $373 million in permanent savings through September 30, 2010, compared to a target of $317 million.
Strategic Initiatives
During the First Quarter, the Company completed the acquisition of Aha Mobile, an innovative Silicon Valley provider of on-demand mobile and location-based Internet content services. The new unit's online application complements HARMAN's offering for hands-free, eyes-free automotive Infotainment and consumer devices. This expands the content available to today's connected mobile generation while providing a safe, interactive experience. The Company also highlighted the recent acquisition of Selenium, now operating as Harman do Brasil in Latin America, at the region's largest music industry trade exhibition during September.
To meet fast rising domestic demand in China, the Company announced a new $100 million investment for strategic initiatives. This will include construction of two greenfield world class factories in China for Automotive, Professional and Consumer products. Fast execution will allow these new factories to come online in summer of 2011. To complement existing sales channels for consumer audio products, the Company also opened its first flagship store in Shanghai.
 
 
 
Investor and Analyst Call on November 2, 2010
HARMAN will conduct an investor and analyst call at , hosted by the Company's Chairman and CEO, Dinesh Paliwal, and Chief Financial Officer, Herbert Parker. Those who wish to participate via audio in the earnings conference call should dial 888-223-5152 (U.S.) or +1 (303) 223-2680 (International) ten minutes before the call and reference HARMAN. Following the call, a replay will be available beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. EDT. The replay will remain available through January 1, 2011 at 1:00 p.m. To listen to the replay, dial (800) 633-8284 (U.S.) or +1 (402) 977-9140 (International), Access Code: 21483155.
11:00 am EDT today
NOTE: For reference during its analyst and investor conference call, the Company has posted a set of informational slides on its web site at www.harman.com and accompanying this press release on www.businesswire.com. In addition, Harman invites you to visit the Investors section of its website at www.harman.com where visitors can sign-up for email alerts and conveniently download copies of historical earnings releases and supporting slide presentations, among other documents.
General Information
HARMAN (www.harman.com) designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The Company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 20 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 11,000 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported sales of $3.5 billion over the last twelve months. The Company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
 
 
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures included in this press release to the most comparable GAAP measures is provided in the tables contained at the end of this press release. HARMAN does not intend for this information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-Looking Information
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters discussed are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. One should not place undue reliance on these statements. We base these statements on particular assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience, as well as our perception of historical trends, current market conditions, current economic data, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements, including but not limited to (1) our ability to achieve the intended benefits and anticipated savings of our STEP Change cost reduction initiatives; (2) our ability to maintain profitability in our automotive division if there are delays in our product launches, which may give rise to significant penalties and increased engineering expense; (3) the loss of one or more significant customers, or the loss of a significant platform with an automotive customer; (4) warranty obligations for defects in our products; (5) fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the value of the U.S. dollar and the Euro; (6) our ability to successfully implement our global footprint initiative, including achieving cost reductions and other benefits in connection with the restructuring of our manufacturing, engineering, procurement and administrative organizations; (7) the inability of our suppliers to deliver products at the scheduled rate and disruptions arising in connection therewith; (8) our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and to prepare and implement an appropriate succession plan for our critical organizational positions; (9) our failure to implement and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program; (10) our failure to comply with governmental rules and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. export control laws, and the cost of compliance with such laws; (11) our ability to maintain a competitive technological advantage through innovation and leading product designs; (12) acceptance of our mid-platform infotainment systems by original equipment manufacturers and consumers; (13) the outcome of pending or future litigation and other claims, including, but not limited to, the current stockholder and Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 lawsuits; (14) our ability to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property rights, and (15) other risks detailed in Harman International's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and other filings made by Harman International with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, except as required by law. This press release also makes reference to the Company's sales backlog. The Company's sales backlog reflects anticipated net sales from formally awarded new programs and open replacement programs, less phased-out and cancelled programs. The sales backlog may be impacted by various assumptions embedded in the calculation, including vehicle production levels on new and replacement programs, foreign currency exchange rates and the timing of major program launches.
HAR-E
 
 
 
 
Net sales in the first quarter were $607 million, an increase of 12 percent, or 20 percent in local currency in comparison to the same period last year. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the first quarter increased from 23.2 percent to 23.3 percent. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the first quarter was $104 million compared to $124 million in the prior year. As a percentage of sales, SG&A was reduced 5.7 percentage points from 22.9% to 17.2%. These improvements were primarily driven by higher sales and improved productivity.
The Automotive Division received several significant awards from major automakers during the first quarter. HARMAN was selected by Chrysler Group and Fiat to provide integrated infotainment systems for the automakers' vehicles sold worldwide. Building upon its scalable infotainment system win with Toyota in Europe, the Company was also selected to provide systems for Toyota vehicles sold in North America. The Company was also selected by Daimler AG to equip new Mercedes-Benz models worldwide with in-car entertainment modules incorporating the Company's GRAMMY-Award winning wireless headphone technology.
Diverse automotive model launches during the quarter underscore the Company's successful initiatives to broaden its penetration of premium HARMAN systems beyond the luxury segment. First quarter launches included JBL Professional audio for the Ferrari California and Italia 458; Harman Kardon audio systems for Range Rover; JBL premium audio for the Peugeot 508; Lexicon surround sound audio for the 2011 Hyundai Equus; and Infinity premium audio for the 2011 Kia Optima. The Company introduced a new in-vehicle computing module developed in cooperation with Intel, and new mobile Wi-Fi hotspot capabilities developed with Marvell Technology Group.
 
 
 
 
Net sales in the first quarter were $86 million, an increase of 3 percent, or 9 percent in local currency. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the first quarter increased to 28.4 percent, an increase of 2.3 percentage points. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the first quarter was $24 million compared to $21 million in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to the new Global Product Development Center in Shenzhen, China and brand marketing activities.
At Berlin's IFA Consumer Electronics Show during September, the division booked more than $25 million in on-site orders amidst strong new product introductions. Innovations showcased at the exhibition included the Signature Series line of headphones developed and launched with music legend Quincy Jones; a high-performance integrated amplifier from Harman Kardon; Studio 1 Series speakers from JBL; and significant enhancements to receiver and home theater systems.
The Company's JBL brand also launched the new OnStage family of designer docking stations for iPod and iPhone users and the award-winning MS-8 Series of aftermarket amplifiers for automotive audio enthusiasts. HARMAN won two prestigious "Best Product" awards from the European Imaging and Sound Association (EISA).
 
 
 
 
Net sales in the first quarter were $144 million, an increase of 19 percent, or 20 percent in local currency. This increase was driven in part by the recent acquisition of Selenium in Brazil. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the first quarter increased to 40.1 percent, an increase of 1.4 percentage points. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the first quarter was $36 million compared to $30 million in the prior year  driven in part by continued investment in emerging market build up of sales and service.
The Professional Division continued to support landmark sporting and entertainment events around the world, wrapping up an official sponsorship at Shanghai World Expo 2010 where more than 70 million visitors experienced HARMAN audio systems across more than 20 venues. The Company's professional audio systems also welcomed visitors to the FIFA World Cup competition in South Africa and the recent Commonwealth Games in India.
The division provided professional audio systems for several high-profile entertainment events during the quarter, including the Prime Time Emmy Awards, Miss Universe Pageant, and MTV Music Video Awards. The Company's digital mixing consoles were commissioned at Austria's historic Vienna Konzerthaus. Other HARMAN systems supported such leading events and entertainers as American Idol Live, the James Taylor/Carole King USA tour, Sheryl Crow, and European tours with U2, Elton John, Guns'n'Roses, Sting, and Bon Jovi.
 
 
 
 
SG&A expense increased in the first quarter primarily due to investments in technology, innovation and marketing programs. The Company's Corporate Technology Center (CTC) is driving cutting-edge development in areas such as connectivity and networking, mobile Internet such as Aha Mobile, cloud computing, advanced driver assistance, wireless technologies and energy-efficiency.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring charges incurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2011. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring and goodwill impairment charges incurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2010. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


