FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20100113121742.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Indenture
On January 12, 2010 (the "Effective Date"), Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") entered into a Supplemental Indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture"), to the Indenture dated October 23, 2007 (the "Indenture"), with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee for the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Notes").
The Supplemental Indenture amends the incurrence of debt covenant contained in the Indenture, which covenant expires on October 23, 2010, to permit the Company to, without complying with the Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as such terms are defined in the Indenture) ratio of 3:25 to 1:
 
 
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Supplemental Indenture which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Indenture has previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 25, 2007.
Investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg, Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. ("KKR") and GS Capital Partners VI Fund, L.P. and its related funds, which are sponsored by Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("GS"), that collectively own a majority in principal amount of the Notes consented to the Supplemental Indenture. Brian F. Carroll, one of the Company's directors, is a member of KKR & Co. LLC, which serves as a general partner of KKR. Rajat Gupta, another Company director, is a director of GS and a senior advisor to KKR.
On January 13, 2010, the Company issued a press release with respect to this item. A copy of this press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 13, 2010
 

Exhibit 4.1
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of January 12, 2010 (the "") between Harman International Industries, Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture, dated as of October 23, 2007 (the ""), pursuant to which the Company issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 (the "");
Indenture
Notes
WHEREAS, the Company desires to modify and amend the Indenture and the Notes for the benefit of the Holders (as defined in the Indenture);
WHEREAS, Section 9.02(a) of the Indenture provides that, subject to certain exceptions, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture and the Notes with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes;
WHEREAS, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes have consented to the amendments contemplated by this Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all other acts, things and proceedings required by applicable law and by the Indenture necessary for the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, and to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid supplement to the Indenture according to its terms and a valid and binding agreement of the Company, have been duly done and performed.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows:
1. . Initially capitalized terms used, but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
2. . Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended to include the following definition:
Amendment to Section 1.01 of the Indenture
"Credit Agreement" means the Second Amended and Restated Multi-Currency, Multi-Option Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2009, by and among the Company, Harman Holding GmbH & Co. KG, the lenders and the other parties thereto as amended by the First Amendment dated June 15, 2009, and, to the extent not prohibited by this Indenture, any amendments, modifications or supplements thereto from time to time after the date hereof (including any replacements or refinancing thereof).
3. . Section 4.08 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Amendment to Section 4.08 of the Indenture
"Until the earlier to occur of the third anniversary of the Issue Date and the date on which the aggregate principal amount of Notes beneficially owned by the Sponsor Purchasers and Bank Purchasers is less than $200 million, the Company will not and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to incur, create, assume, guarantee or otherwise become liable for any Indebtedness (an "incurrence") unless after giving effect to such incurrence the ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (the "Leverage Test") for the most recently ended four quarter period would not be greater than 3.25 to 1.0, determined on a pro forma basis in accordance with Regulation S-X under the Securities Act; that, notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to such date
provided
(1) until the earlier to occur of the Extended Tranche Termination Date (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and the date the loans under the Credit Agreement otherwise become due and payable and/or the commitments of the lenders under the Credit Agreement are terminated, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall be permitted to incur revolving extensions of credit under the Credit Agreement (including letters of credit), so long as the total extensions of credit, including the principal amount of Indebtedness and face amount of letters of credit, outstanding under the Credit Agreement does not, at any time, exceed $231,600,000;
(2) the Company and its Subsidiaries shall be permitted to incur Indebtedness in addition to the Indebtedness otherwise permitted under this Section 4.08 to the extent that, promptly upon the incurrence thereof, the Company makes a pro rata offer to purchase a principal face amount of the Notes equal to 50% of the aggregate amount of such Indebtedness so incurred, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and so purchases the amount of the Notes tendered in respect of such offer, pursuant to procedures otherwise reasonably mutually agreed by the Company and the Trustee to be customary and appropriate, consistent with the relevant provisions of Article III of the Indenture (excluding the references therein to fundamental change and related terms); provided, that the Company shall not incur any such Indebtedness pursuant to this clause (2) and shall not make or consummate any such offer to purchase if any consent therefor or for any part thereof is required under the Credit Agreement and such consent has not been obtained; and
(3) for purposes of calculating the Leverage Test, Consolidated Total Debt will be deemed to include $231,600,000 of Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement for purposes of the calculation thereof, whether or not such amount is actually outstanding."
4. . From and after the effective date of this Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture and the Notes shall be supplemented in accordance herewith, and this Supplemental Indenture shall form part of the Indenture and the Notes for all purposes, and every Holder of Notes heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound thereby.
Effect of Supplemental Indenture
5. . Except as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, all provisions in the Indenture and the Notes shall remain in full force and effect.
Indenture Remains in Full Force and Effect
 
6. THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
7. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
8. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
9. . This Supplemental Indenture shall be effective upon its signing by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness of Supplemental Indenture
10. . If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may not be so limited, qualified or conflicted with, such provision of the Trust Indenture Act shall control. If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, such provision of the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to apply to the Indenture as so modified or to be excluded by this Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
11. . In case any provision of this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
12. . Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture or the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and thereto and their successors hereunder and thereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture or the Notes.
Benefits of Supplemental Indenture, etc
13. . The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture.
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the date first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
January 13, 2010  FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Robert V. Lardon
Vice President, Investor Relations
203.328.3517
robert.lardon@harman.com
Harman International Reaches Agreement to Amend Its Convertible Senior Notes Indenture
STAMFORD, CT  January 13, 2010  Harman International Industries, Incorporated (NYSE:HAR) said today that it has entered into an amendment effective January 12, 2010 to the Indenture for its Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 ("Notes"), following consent from a majority of the holders of the Notes. Pursuant to this amendment, the Note holders have waived compliance with the incurrence of debt covenant contained in the Indenture for the limited purpose of permitting Harman to incur debt under its existing revolving credit facility.
"We are extremely pleased that we were able to reach an agreement with the Note holders to allow us to revolve the outstanding indebtedness on our credit facility," said Dinesh C. Paliwal, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Harman International Industries, Incorporated. "This amendment will allow us to save millions of dollars in unnecessary interest expense while maintaining financial flexibility. We also view this as a vote of confidence by the Note holders in Harman's improved balance sheet and financial performance."
Harman International (www.harman.com) designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment products for the automotive, consumer and professional markets. The Company maintains a strong presence in the Americas, Europe and Asia and employs about 9,500 people worldwide. The Harman International family of brands spans some 15 leading names including AKG, Becker, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The Company's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the Symbol HAR.
 


