FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20100426172633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2010, Harman International Industries, Incorporated ("Harman") entered into severance agreements (collectively, the "Severance Agreements") with the following members of the Executive Committee: Herbert Parker, Blake Augsburger, David Karch, Sachin Lawande, David Slump, John Stacey and Todd Suko. The Severance Agreements provide that if an executive is terminated without cause or terminates his own employment for good reason, he is entitled to receive (i) a lump sum payment equal to his annual base salary in effect on the date of termination and (ii) a prorated bonus for the fiscal year during which the termination occurs, which shall be payable based on actual performance at the same time annual bonuses for the fiscal year are paid to Harman employees generally. The executive is also entitled to receive 12 months' COBRA reimbursement on an after-tax basis and up to $50,000 for outplacement services. The Severance Agreements also amend the change in control severance agreements previously entered into between Harman and Messrs. Parker, Augsburger, Karch, Lawande, Slump, Stacey and Suko (collectively, the "CIC Severance Agreements") to provide that the severance period under the CIC Severance Agreements will commence on the date of the first occurrence of a Change in Control, as such term is defined in the CIC Severance Agreements, rather than six months prior thereto, and to eliminate provisions addressing the potential occurrence of a termination of employment prior to a Change in Control.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of Severance Agreement which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the form of CIC Severance Agreement has previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 5, 2009.
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 26, 2010

Exhibit 10.1
[Name and Address]
Dear                     :
This letter (this "") sets forth our agreement concerning certain potential terminations of your employment with Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "").
Agreement
Company
1. . Subject to the other provisions of this Agreement, if your employment with the Company is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or by you for Good Reason (any termination entitling you to severance pursuant to this sentence, a ""), subject to your execution and non-revocation of the release of claims described in Section 6 below, the Company will (i) pay you, on the 60
Severance
Qualifying Termination
th
day following such termination, a lump sum severance payment equal your annual base salary as in effect as of the date of such termination, (ii) pay you a prorated bonus for the fiscal year during which such termination occurs (such proration to be based on the portion of such fiscal year during which you were employed by the Company and its affiliates), payable based on actual performance (determined according to the procedures the Company would have applied had you remained employed through the bonus payment date) at the same time annual bonuses for such fiscal year are paid to Company employees generally, and (iii) provide you with reasonable outplacement services for one year after such termination (the cost of such services not to exceed $50,000). In addition, for a period (the "") of 12 months following the date of a Qualifying Termination, the Company will arrange to provide you (and your dependents) with coverage under the Company's medical, dental or other health plan, but only to the extent that you make a payment to the Company in an amount equal to the monthly COBRA premium payments on a timely basis required to maintain such coverage commencing with the first calendar month following the date of such termination, and the Company shall reimburse you (in accordance with the schedule set forth in Section 8) on an after-tax basis for the amount of such premiums, if any, in excess of any employee contributions necessary to maintain such coverage for the Continuation Period (the "").
Continuation Period
COBRA Reimbursement
2. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this Agreement shall have no application with respect to any termination of your employment during the Severance Period (as defined in the Severance Agreement between the Company and you, dated                      (the ""), and subject to the modification of such definition set forth in the next sentence). You and the Company agree that the Change of Control Severance Agreement is hereby amended to provide that the Severance Period will commence on the date of the first occurrence of a Change in Control (rather than six months prior thereto) and to eliminate provisions addressing the potential occurrence of a Termination Date prior to a Change in Control (all capitalized terms in this sentence not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Change in Control Severance Agreement).
Change in Control
Change in Control Severance Agreement
3. . Termination for "" means a termination of your employment by the Company based on your (i) commission of a crime (other than a vehicular misdemeanor), (ii) intentional commission of damage to property of the Company or any of its affiliates that causes material harm to the Company or any of its affiliates, (iii) intentional wrongful disclosure of secret processes or confidential information of the Company or any of its affiliates that causes material harm to the Company or any of its affiliates, (iv) intentional wrongful engagement in any Competitive Activity (as defined in the Change in Control Severance Agreement), (v) misconduct which materially damages or injures the Company or any of its affiliates, or (vi) gross negligence in the performance of, or your willful failure to perform, your duties and responsibilities.
Definition of Cause
Cause
4. . Termination by you for "" means a termination of your employment by you that follows the occurrence of any of the following: (i) an involuntary relocation that increases your commute by more than 50 miles, (ii) a material diminution in your base salary (other than pursuant to across-the-board reductions that apply uniformly to similarly situated employees generally), (iii) a material diminution in your overall compensation opportunity (other than pursuant to across-the-board reductions that apply uniformly to similarly situated employees generally), or (iv) a material reduction in your authority or position with the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a termination shall be deemed to be for Good Reason hereunder only if you provide written notice to the Company of the existence of one or more of the conditions described herein within 90 days following your knowledge of the initial existence of such condition, the Company fails to cure such condition during the 30-day period (the "") following its receipt of such notice, and you terminate employment within 30 days following the conclusion of the Cure Period.
Definition of Good Reason
Good Reason
Cure Period
5. . Termination by the Company for "" means termination based on your inability to perform your duties and responsibilities by reason of illness or incapacity for a total of 180 days in any twelve-month period.
Definition of Disability
Disability
6. . The Company's obligation to make the payments hereunder is conditioned upon your execution and delivery to the Company (within 50 days after the date of your Qualifying Termination), and non-revocation, of a release of claims, in substantially the form set forth as Exhibit A hereto (with any changes as are reasonably requested by the Company to reflect changes in law or practice).
Release of Claims
7. . The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, state, city or other taxes as the Company is required to withhold pursuant to any applicable law, regulation or ruling.
Withholding of Taxes
8. . The intent of the parties hereto is that payments and benefits under this Agreement comply with or be exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "") and the regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder (collectively, "") and, accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted, this Agreement shall be interpreted and administered to be in compliance therewith. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, no payment or benefit that is deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A and that is due upon your termination of
Section 409A
Code
Section 409A
 
employment will be paid or provided unless such termination is also a "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A). Whenever a payment under this Agreement specifies a payment period with reference to a number of days (, "payment shall be made within 30 days following the date of termination"), the actual date of payment within the specified period shall be within the sole discretion of the Company. If at the time of your separation from service (as defined in Section 409A) with the Company, you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A, using the identification methodology selected by the Company from time to time), any payment hereunder that is considered deferred compensation under Section 409A and that is payable on account of your separation from service (and that would otherwise be paid prior to the six-month anniversary of such separation) shall be delayed (the "") until the earlier of your death or the six-month anniversary of such separation from service and shall then be promptly paid, together with interest for the period of delay, compounded annually, equal to the prime rate (as published in and in effect as of the date the payment should otherwise have been provided). All COBRA Reimbursements shall (subject to the Section 409A Delay) be made within 30 days following the date on which you incur the expense but no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which you incur the related expense, provided that in no event shall the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor shall your right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
e.g.
Section 409A Delay
The Wall Street Journal
9. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any amount or benefit to be paid or provided under this Agreement would be an "excess parachute payment" (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, or any successor provision thereto) but for the application of this sentence, then the payments and benefits to be paid or provided under this Agreement will be reduced to the minimum extent necessary (but in no event to less than zero) so that no portion of any such payment or benefit, as so reduced, constitutes an excess parachute payment. Whether requested by you or the Company, the determination of whether any reduction in such payments or benefits to be provided under this Agreement or otherwise is required pursuant to the preceding sentence will be made at the expense of the Company by the Company's independent accountants. The fact that your right to payments or benefits may be reduced by reason of the limitations contained in this Section 9 will not of itself limit or otherwise affect any rights you have other than pursuant to this Agreement. In the event that any payment or benefit intended to be provided under this Agreement is required to be reduced pursuant to this Section 9, the Company will reduce your payments and/or benefits, to the extent required, in the following order: (i) the lump sum payment described in Section 1, (ii) the outplacement benefit described in Section 1, (iii) the health continuation benefits set forth in Section 1, and (iv) the prorated bonus set forth in Section 1.
Section 280G Cutback
10. . The Company and you hereby agree that the provisions of Sections 8(b)-8(d) of the Change in Control Severance Agreement are hereby incorporated herein by reference (for such purposes, references in the Change in Control Severance Agreement to the "Term" shall be deemed to refer to the entire period of your employment with the Company and its affiliates). In addition, for a period of one year following any Qualifying Termination, you shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company,
Restrictive Covenants
 
which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, engage in any Competitive Activity (for purposes of incorporation of Section 8(d) of the Change in Control Severance Agreement, the covenant set forth in this sentence shall be deemed to be included in Section 8 of the Change in Control Severance Agreement).
11. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, your employment with the Company is terminable at will with or without Cause (subject to the obligations of the Company hereunder). Nothing expressed or implied in this Agreement will create any right or duty on the part of the Company or you to have you remain in the employment of the Company and its affiliates for any specific duration.
At-Will Employment
12. . The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Agreement to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Any disputes, litigation, proceedings or other legal actions by any party to this Agreement in connection with or relating to this Agreement or any matters described or contemplated in this Agreement may be instituted in the courts of the State of Delaware or of the United States sitting in the State of Delaware. Each party to this Agreement irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware and of the United States sitting in the State of Delaware in connection with any such dispute, litigation, proceeding or other legal action arising out of or relating to this Agreement.
Governing Law and Dispute Resolution
13. . This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements, written or oral or express or implied, between you and the Company or any affiliate of the Company as to such subject matter, other than the Change in Control Severance Agreement. Any payments provided hereunder shall, subject to Section 2, constitute the exclusive payments due to you from, and the exclusive obligation of, the Company and its affiliates in the event of any termination of your employment, except for any benefits which may be due you in normal course under any employee benefit plan of the Company (other than a severance plan) which provides benefits after termination of employment.
Entire Agreement
14. . For all purposes of this Agreement, all communications, including without limitation notices, consents, requests or approvals, required or permitted to be given hereunder will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given when hand delivered or dispatched by electronic facsimile transmission (with receipt thereof orally confirmed), or five business days after having been mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or three business days after having been sent by a nationally recognized overnight courier service such as FedEx, UPS, or Purolator, addressed to the Company (to the attention of the Secretary of the Company) at its principal executive office and to you at your address on the books of the Company, or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing and in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
Notices
 
15. . This Agreement may not be amended, nor may any provision hereof be modified or waived, except by an instrument in writing duly signed by you and the Company. If any provision of this Agreement, or any application thereof to any circumstances, is invalid, in whole or in part, such provision or application shall to that extent be severable and shall not affect other provisions or applications of this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same agreement.
Miscellaneous
Please indicate your agreement by signing below and retain one copy for your records.
 
Agreed and Accepted:
 
 
In consideration of the agreement by Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company" or "Employer") to provide the benefits described in the letter agreement between me and the Company dated                      (the "Agreement") and in consideration for the Company's other promises in the Agreement and herein, I agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The date indicated and my signature below acknowledge my review, understanding and full, knowing and voluntary acceptance of the terms and conditions set forth in this Release.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I, intending to be legally bound hereby, have executed this Release.
 
 


