FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20100805161523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 5, 2010, Harman International Industries, Incorporated issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
See Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" above.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 5, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
HARMAN Reports Fourth Quarter Sales Up 29% and Improves Operating Income by $109 Million
 
 
 
Stamford, CT, August 5, 2010  Harman International Industries, Incorporated, the leading global audio and infotainment group (NYSE: HAR), today announced results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. Net sales for the year were $3.4 billion, an increase of 18 percent compared to the prior year. Excluding foreign currency translation, net sales increased by 17 percent. On a GAAP basis, operating profit from continuing operations was $86 million compared to an operating loss of ($504) million in fiscal 2009. Excluding non-recurring items, annual operating profit from continuing operations was $116 million, compared to a non-GAAP operating loss of ($86) million in the prior year. On the same non-GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $0.85 for the year compared to a loss per diluted share of ($1.23) in the prior year. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $0.50 for the year compared to a loss per diluted share of ($7.19) in the prior year. The Company divested its QNX business in June which is excluded from these results. The QNX operating profit for the eleven months was $10 million, or $0.13 earnings per diluted share.
Net sales for the quarter were $851 million, an increase of 29 percent compared to the same period last year. Excluding foreign currency translation, net sales increased by 35 percent. Fourth quarter operating income was $26 million, an improvement of $109 million versus a prior year loss. Excluding non-recurring items, operating profit from continuing operations in the fourth quarter was $30 million, compared to a non-GAAP operating loss of ($35) million in the same period last year. On the same non-GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $0.30 for the quarter compared to a loss per diluted share of ($0.43) in the same period last year. On a GAAP basis, earnings from continuing operations per diluted share were $0.26 for the quarter compared to loss per diluted share of ($1.01) in the same period last year. The Company divested its QNX business in June which is excluded from these results. The QNX operating profit for the two months was $1 million, or $0.02 earnings per diluted share.
At June 30, 2010, the Company's cash and short term investments balance was $646 million, compared to $424 million as of March 31, 2010. The increase in cash was primarily the result of positive cash from operating activities and the proceeds from the sale of QNX.
Dinesh C. Paliwal, the Company's Chairman, President and CEO, said, "Our progress during the quarter has been extremely encouraging, with all key performance indicators improving. The next generation technology developed at Harman is capturing market share and delivering increased value to our customers. Additionally, we are driving value by optimizing our business portfolio and global footprint, transforming our cost structure, and accelerating our growth into emerging markets."
"We were pleased to see an unexpected increase in demand this quarter," added Paliwal. "As a result, we decided to incur additional procurement and logistics costs to secure sufficient allocation of electronics components. At the same time, our increased confidence in our ability to capture market share has prompted us to accelerate investments in sales, marketing, and business development. We believe these efforts, combined with prudent capital deployment, will continue our sales and profit improvements and deliver superior shareholder value."
Summary of Continuing Operations  Gross Margin and SG&A
Gross margin on a GAAP basis increased 3.7 percentage points to 26.3 percent in fiscal 2010 and 5.6 percentage points to 26.3 percent in the fourth quarter. These changes were primarily due to higher factory utilization associated with increased sales and improved productivity as a result of STEP Change initiatives. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2010 increased 3.5 percentage points to 26.4 percent and, in the fourth quarter, increased 5.5 percentage points to 26.3 percent. These gross margin improvements were primarily due to higher factory utilization associated with increased sales and improved productivity as a result of STEP Change initiatives.
SG&A expense as a percentage of sales on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2010 declined 2.9 percentage points to 23.0 percent and, in the fourth quarter, declined 3.3 percentage points to 22.8 percent. These improvements are primarily related to STEP Change initiatives and engineering footprint optimization.
HARMAN continues to execute ahead of schedule on its $400 million STEP Change permanent cost-savings program and has achieved $350 million in permanent savings through June 30, 2010, compared to a target of $283 million.
Strategic Initiatives
The Company successfully concluded the sale of its QNX Software Systems unit during the quarter to Research in Motion (NASDAQ:RIMM) for a cash price of approximately $200 million. The acquisition of Eletrnica Selenium S/A of Brazil, a leading provider of professional and consumer audio solutions, was also successfully completed during the quarter for an aggregate price of $75 million.
The Company significantly increased its brand marketing activities in the fourth quarter. A new corporate identity program that incorporates the co-branding of HARMAN with all portfolio brands was initiated, supported by a major advertising campaign. The Company is serving as an Official Sound Partner at Shanghai World Expo 2010 where 70 million people will be introduced to the HARMAN experience. Harman products and brands were also showcased at the recent Coachella and Stagecoach music festivals, where its consumer audio displays and professional audio systems were presented to an estimated 250,000 visitors.
 
 
 
Investor Call on August 5, 2010
HARMAN will conduct an investor and analyst call hosted by CEO, Dinesh Paliwal, and CFO, Herbert Parker. Those who wish to participate via audio in the earnings conference call scheduled at 4:40 p.m. EDT should dial 800-704-8312 (U.S.) or +1 (303) 223-4397 (International) ten minutes before the call and reference HARMAN. Following the call, a replay will be available at approximately 6:40 p.m. EDT through November 4, 2010 at 6:40 p.m. EDT. To listen to the replay, dial (800) 633-8284 (U.S.) or +1 (402) 977-9140 (International), Access Code: 21477075.
4:40 p.m. EDT:
NOTE: For reference during its analyst and investor conference call, the Company has posted a set of informational slides on its web site at www.harman.com and accompanying this press release on www.businesswire.com.
In addition, Harman invites you to visit the Investors section of its website at: www.harman.com where visitors can sign-up for email alerts and conveniently download copies of historical earnings releases and supporting slide presentations, among other documents.
General Information
HARMAN (www.harman.com) designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The Company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 20 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 11,000 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported sales of $3.4 billion for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The Company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures included in this press release to the most comparable GAAP measures is provided in the tables contained at the end of this press release. HARMAN does not intend for this information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-Looking Information
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters discussed are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. One should not place undue reliance on these statements. We base these statements on particular assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience, as well as our perception of historical trends, current market conditions, current economic data, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements, including but not limited to (1) our ability to achieve the intended benefits and anticipated savings of our STEP Change cost reduction initiatives; (2) our ability to maintain profitability in our automotive division; (3) the loss of one or more significant customers, or the loss of a significant platform with an automotive customer; (4) warranty obligations for defects in our products; (5) fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the value of the U.S. dollar and the Euro; (6) our ability to successfully implement our global footprint initiative, including achieving cost reductions and other benefits in connection with the restructuring of our manufacturing, engineering, procurement and administrative organizations; (7) the inability of our suppliers to deliver products at the scheduled rate and disruptions arising in connection therewith; (8) our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and to prepare and implement an appropriate succession plan for our critical organizational positions; (9)our failure to implement and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program; (10) our failure to comply with governmental rules and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. export control laws, and the cost of compliance with such laws; (11) our ability to maintain a competitive technological advantage through innovation and leading product designs; (12) acceptance of our mid-platform infotainment systems by original equipment manufacturers and consumers; (13) the outcome of pending or future litigation and other claims, including, but not limited to, the current stockholder and Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 lawsuits; (14) our ability to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property rights, and (15) other risks detailed in Harman International's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and other filings made by Harman International with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, except as required by law. This press release also makes reference to the Company's sales backlog. The Company's sales backlog reflects anticipated net sales from formally awarded new programs and open replacement programs, less phased-out and cancelled programs. The sales backlog may be impacted by various assumptions embedded in the calculation, including vehicle production levels on new and replacement programs, foreign currency exchange rates and the timing of major program launches.
 
 
 
Automotive Division net sales in fiscal 2010 were $2.5 billion, an increase of 23 percent, or 22 percent when adjusted for constant currency, compared to the prior year. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2010 increased 4.3 percentage points to 23.9 percent. The gross profit margin improvement was due to higher factory utilization associated with increased sales and improved productivity as a result of STEP Change initiatives.
SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2010 was $484 million compared to $478 million in the prior year, flat when adjusted for constant currency. As a percentage of sales, SG&A declined by 4.2 percentage points from 23.8% to 19.6%.
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $627 million, an increase of 35 percent, or 43 percent when adjusted for constant currency. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter increased 6.8 percentage points to 23.7 percent. The gross profit margin improvement was due to higher factory utilization associated with increased sales and improved productivity as a result of STEP Change initiatives.
SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter was $116 million compared to $104 million in the prior year. As a percentage of sales, SG&A declined 3.9 percentage points from 22.3% to 18.4%.
The Automotive Division received several significant awards from major automakers since its last reporting period. The division was selected by Chrysler Group and Fiat to provide integrated infotainment systems for the automakers' vehicles sold worldwide.
Complementing the previously announced infotainment offering for Toyota in Europe, Toyota will also offer Harman systems for its vehicles sold in North America. In addition, Harman was selected to provide a premium Mark Levinson branded audio system for the Lexus LFA, an ultra-high-performance sports vehicle. The Company has also been awarded a new project from BMW to provide the next generation entry-level infotainment system for its luxury vehicle platforms. Harman has been the market leader in the premium high' Infotainment category. With these new awards, Harman has expanded its served segments into the fast-growing premium mid' and premium entry' Infotainment business.
 
 
 
Consumer Division net sales in fiscal 2010 were $373 million, an increase of 5 percent, or 2 percent when adjusted for constant currency, compared to the prior year. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2010 increased 3.3 percentage points to 26.6 percent. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2010 was $96 million compared to $97 million in the prior year. As a percentage of sales, SG&A declined by 1.3 percentage points from 27.2% to 25.9%.
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $81 million, an increase of 15 percent, or 20 percent when adjusted for constant currency. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter increased 2.6 percentage points to 24.0 percent. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter was $26 million compared to $23 million in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to investments in advertising and marketing related activities. SG&A was flat as a percentage of sales.
The Consumer Division has opened a new Global Product Development Center in Shenzhen, China, putting operations in close proximity to major suppliers, contract manufacturers, and the fastest growing consumer markets. The division also recently appointed a leading multimedia distributor to support its growth strategy in China. The acquisition of Selenium will greatly enhance opportunities for the Consumer Division to distribute Harman branded products in Brazil and other South American markets.
The division introduced 88 new products during the fiscal year, supported by brand advertising in leading publications including Dwell, Fast Company, Modern Luxury Publications, Rolling Stone and Esquire. Among the division's most successful product launches during the fourth quarter was the MS-8 digital processor from JBL which has exceeded expectations for sales and editorial reviews. The aftermarket system dramatically enhances performance from installed car stereos with personalized surround-sound tuning across 31 graphic equalizer bands.
The Consumer Division's web sites now serve customers in more than 25 languages, prompting robust growth in site visitors and online purchases. New Consumer Division social media sites were launched in April, attracting more than 15,000 registered followers in the first three months online.
 
Professional Division
 
 
Professional Division net sales in fiscal 2010 were $523 million, an increase of 6 percent and the same when adjusted for constant currency, compared to the prior year. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2010 increased 1.7 percentage points to 39.1 percent. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2010 was $124 million compared to $122 million in the prior year. As a percentage of sales, SG&A declined by 0.9 percentage points from 24.7% to 23.8%.
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $142 million, an increase of 15 percent, or 16 percent when adjusted for constant currency. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter increased 2.3 percentage points to 38.7 percent. SG&A expense on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter was $31 million compared to $29 million in the prior year. SG&A decreased as a percentage of sales from 23.4% to 22.0%.
The Professional Division continued to introduce advanced technologies around the world. This included the first ever professional-grade application of the Ethernet AVB protocol which will allow time-synchronized, streaming audio and video via IEEE 802 Ethernet.
The division has recently appointed new sales resources in China and India, supporting its growth strategy in sectors such as cinema, tour artists and installed sound. In North America, the Professional Division's three mobile demonstration showrooms are taking the Harman audio experience on the road at such events as the Architectural Digest Show in New York and the Newport Film Festival in California. The division is expected to benefit significantly from the recent acquisition of market leader Selenium of Brazil, which brings a network of some 30 distributors across Latin America and two distribution centers in the US.
 
 
 
Excluding the impact of prior year stock option forfeitures, the full year SG&A expense increase was primarily attributable to incremental variable compensation expense and investments in technology innovation programs within the corporate research and development center.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring charges incurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring and goodwill impairment charges incurred during fiscal 2010. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring and goodwill impairment charges incurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our restructuring and goodwill impairment charges incurred during fiscal 2009. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 


