FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20110323165333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 23, 2011, Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release reporting that the Company's manufacturing production for its professional audio, consumer electronics, and automotive OEM products will remain materially unaffected by the recent events in Japan. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 23, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
March 23, 2011
Contact:
Darrin Shewchuk
Director, Corporate Communications
darrin.shewchuk@harman.com
203.328.3834
HARMAN expects no material impact on its sourcing and Japanese business
STAMFORD, CT  HARMAN, the premium global audio and infotainment group (NYSE:HAR), reported that its manufacturing production for its professional audio, consumer electronics, and automotive OEM products will remain materially unaffected by the recent events in Japan.
As part of the Company's ongoing Enterprise Risk Management strategies, HARMAN has maintained a diversified global supplier base. Following the disastrous natural events in Japan, HARMAN immediately established a task force to evaluate any potential risks to its supply chain or its Japanese automotive business. After review, the Company does not expect any material impact on its business.
Last week, the Company announced a $100,000 contribution to the Red Cross relief efforts, and is matching employee contributions toward the Japan Tsunami and Earthquake disaster relief fund.
As reported earlier, HARMAN maintains two office locations in Nagoya and Tokyo, all employees are safe and operations have continued with minimal disruption. HARMAN and its management will continue to monitor the situation closely and wish all Japanese companies a speedy return to normal operations as soon as it is safe to do so.
HARMAN (www.harman.com) designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The Company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 20 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 11,800 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported sales of $3.5 billion for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. The Company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
HAR - C


