FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20111026074538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2011, Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing revised fiscal year 2013 financial guidance and fiscal year 2012 guidance (the "Guidance Release"). The foregoing is qualified by reference to the Guidance Release which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Also on October 26, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors authorized a share buyback program of up to $200 million ("Share Buyback Release"). The foregoing is qualified by reference to the Share Buyback Release which is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by this reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, is being furnished, not filed, and accordingly it will not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 26, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
HARMAN Issues FY12 Guidance; Updates FY13 Guidance Range
 
 
Stamford, CT, October 26, 2011  HARMAN the leading global audio and infotainment group (NYSE: HAR), today provided guidance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012 and updated its prior guidance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, which was first provided in April of 2010. The Company noted that this guidance will be discussed today at its Analyst and Investor event in Nashville, TN, for which details are provided below.
Dinesh C. Paliwal, President Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer of Harman International, commented, "We are very pleased with the company's strategic and operational progress. With our strong innovation pipeline, rapid growth in emerging markets and proven execution track record, we continue to gain market share and improve our profitability."
 
Analyst and Investor Event: Call-In Details
At approximately 11:00 am EDT, on October 26, 2011, Management will host a live audio-cast of its presentation and Q&A discussion with analysts and investors attending the event, as well as from analysts and investors who remotely dial-in via conference call. Presentation materials will be posted on HARMAN's website at at that time.
www.harman.com
 
For technical assistance, call the toll-free Global Crossing Customer Care Line at 1 (800) 473-0602 (US) or +1 (303) 446-4604 (International).
 
 
General Information
HARMAN () designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands, including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 25 million automobiles on the
www.harman.com
 
road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 12,500 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported net sales of $4.0 billion for twelve months ending September 30, 2011. The Company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
Forward-Looking Information
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. One should not place undue reliance on these statements. We base these statements on particular assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience, as well as our perception of historical trends, current market conditions, current economic data, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: (1) our ability to maintain profitability in our infotainment division if there are delays in our product launches which may give rise to significant penalties and increased engineering expense; (2) the loss of one or more significant customers, or the loss of a significant platform with an automotive customer; (3) warranty obligations for defects in our products; (4) fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the value of the U.S. Dollar and the Euro; (5) our ability to successfully implement our global footprint initiative, including achieving cost reductions and other benefits in connection with the restructuring of our manufacturing, engineering, procurement and administrative organizations; (6) fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials including, without limitation, petroleum, copper, steel, aluminum, synthetic resins, rare metals and rare-earth minerals, or shortages of materials, parts and components; (7) the inability of our suppliers to deliver products at the scheduled rate and disruptions arising in connection therewith; (8) our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and to prepare and implement an appropriate succession plan for our critical organizational positions; (9) our failure to implement and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program; (10) our failure to comply with governmental rules and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. export control laws, and the cost of compliance with such laws; (11) our ability to maintain a competitive technological advantage through innovation and leading product designs; (12) our failure to maintain the value of our brands and implementing a sufficient brand protection program; (13) acceptance of our mid-platform infotainment systems by original equipment manufacturers and consumers; (14) the outcome of pending or future litigation and other claims, including, but not limited to, the current stockholder and Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 lawsuits; (15) our ability to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property rights; and (16) other risks detailed in Harman International Industries, Incorporated Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 and other filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement except as required by law.
HAR-C
2011 HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated. All rights reserved. Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson are trademarks of HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, registered in the United States and/or other countries. AKG is a trademark of AKG Acoustics GmbH, registered in the United States and/or other countries. Features, specifications and appearance are subject to change without notice.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
HARMAN Board of Directors Authorizes Share Buyback Program
Stamford, CT  October 26, 2011  Harman International Industries, Incorporated (NYSE: HAR) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $200 million of the Company's common stock.
Dinesh C. Paliwal, President, Chairman, and CEO of Harman, commented, "Our sound strategy and relentless execution have resulted in eight consecutive quarters of top and bottom line growth. We invested in building our infrastructure in BRIC countries which has resulted in rapid growth and significant market share gains. With our strong balance sheet and projected cash flows, we will continue to look for organic and inorganic investments that generate shareholder value. At the same time, we will continue to analyze other strategic capital deployment options that we feel deliver the best value to our shareholders. As such, we are pleased to announce this authorization of a buyback program as a part of our capital allocation strategy."
This buyback program allows the Company to purchase shares of common stock in accordance with applicable securities laws on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions from time-to-time during the authorized 12 month period. The Company will determine the timing and the amount of any repurchases based on its evaluation of market conditions, share price and other factors, and the buyback program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The Company currently has outstanding approximately 71 million diluted shares of common stock.
General Information
HARMAN () designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands, including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The Company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 25 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 12,500 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported net sales of $4.0 billion for twelve months ending September 30, 2011. The Company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
www.harman.com
2011 HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated. All rights reserved. Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson are trademarks of HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, registered in the United States and/or other countries. AKG is a trademark of AKG Acoustics GmbH, registered in the United States and/or other countries. Features, specifications and appearance are subject to change without notice.
 
HAR-C
 


