FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20110301113244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 23, 2011, Harman International Industries, Incorporated ("Harman") entered into an agreement with Dr. Klaus Blickle (the "Termination Agreement"), the former Chief Executive Officer of Harman's Automotive Division, to terminate the Managing Director Employment Agreement between Harman Management GmbH and Dr. Blickle, dated May 30, 2008 (the "MDEA"). The MDEA was filed with Harman's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 29, 2008.
The Termination Agreement provides that the MDEA will terminate effective as of June 30, 2011. Pursuant to the Termination Agreement, and prior to the termination of the MDEA, Dr. Blickle will continue to receive compensation, including a salary of 41,666 per month (based upon a 500,000 annual salary) and a June 2011 bonus payment of 45,000. Prior to the termination of the MDEA, Dr. Blickle will also continue to receive certain benefits including insurance, tuition reimbursement for his children and use of a company car. The Termination Agreement also amends certain provisions of the MDEA related to Dr. Blickle's right to receive a pension, provided certain conditions are satisfied.
A copy of the Termination Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02. The foregoing summary of the Termination Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Termination Agreement filed herewith.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
10.1 Agreement between and among Harman Management GmbH and Dr. Klaus Blickle, dated February 23, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 1, 2011

Exhibit 10.1
between and among
1.    Harman Management GmbH,
        Becker-Gring-Strae 16, 76303 Karlsbad, Germany,
 hereinafter referred to as "" 
the Company
represented by its shareholder Harman International Industries, Inc.
-hereinafter referred to as ""-
Harman
and
2.    Dr. Klaus Blickle,
        [Address Intentionally Omitted],
 hereinafter referred to as "" 
the Managing Director
- collectively referred to as "" 
the Parties
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"The Annual Pension shall be in the amount of 33.500, and shall be paid in twelve (12) equal monthly installments commencing the month following the month during which the last one of the following conditions has been satisfied:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall ensure that the shareholders of Harman Becker Automotive Systems GmbH will grant approval of acts () of the Managing Director for the time of his office as Managing Director in course of the approval of the respective financial statements. Signed copies of the shareholders' resolutions concerning approval of the acts will be provided by the Company to the Managing Director immediately after they have been passed.
Entlastung
Any stock options or RSUs granted to the Managing Director are subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions of the respective stock option agreements and restricted share units agreements entered into between the Managing Director and Harman International Industries, Inc. and the applicable stock option and incentive plans.
The Managing Director shall not make any negative utterances, whether oral or written, express or implied, concerning the Company, any Affiliated Company, or any of their directors, officers or employees, suppliers or customers. In particular, notwithstanding and in addition to the Managing Director's general secrecy obligations, the Managing Director will not discuss or make any kind of statements with respect to the Managing Director's history with, and views of, the Harman Group.
The Parties will make statements or comments to the public about the Managing Director, his termination and resignation only if and to the extent expressly agreed between the Parties in advance.
 
The provisions of Article 8 of the MDEA shall remain unaffected.
The Parties agree that upon signing of this Agreement neither of the Parties shall have any claims, whether past, present or future, known or unknown, arising from the MDEA terminated as of the Termination Date and/or in connection with its termination, except for claims based on the rights and duties agreed upon in this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
between and among
 
represented by its shareholder Harman International Industries, Inc.
and
 
- collectively referred to as "" 
the Parties
The Parties agree hereby as follows: All disputes arising from the Agreement appended hereto between Dr. Klaus Blickle and Harman Management GmbH including its validity shall be finally settled by three arbitrators according to the Arbitration Rules of the German Institution of Arbitration e.V. (DIS) without recourse to the ordinary courts of law. The arbitration tribunal shall also decide on the validity of this arbitration agreement. The arbitral tribunal shall apply German substantive law. The language of the arbitration proceedings shall be English. If one party desires consideration of a document or of witness testimony in another language, that party must undertake the prior translation or simultaneous translation, respectively, of the same and alone carry such as a separate, non-refundable expense. The place of arbitration shall be Frankfurt am Main, Federal Republic of Germany. With exception of possible translation expenses as described above, the winning party is entitled to the award of all necessary (in accordance with Section 91 ZPO (German Civil Procedure Code)) costs and necessary (in accordance with Section 91 ZPO (German Civil Procedure Code)) expenses in connection with the proceedings (including attorneys' fees in accordance with the German Act on Attorney's Fees (RVG)).
 
 


