FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20110324171741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 24, 2011, Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release reporting that it has exceeded its goal of $400 million in permanent cost and productivity savings under the Company's STEP Change program which will formally conclude in June 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 24, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
March 24, 2011 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Darrin Shewchuk
Director, Corporate Communications
darrin.shewchuk@harman.com
203.328.3500
HARMAN Beats Target for $400 Million STEP Change Savings Program
STAMFORD, CT  HARMAN, the global audio and infotainment group (NYSE:HAR), said today that it has already exceeded its goal of $400 million in permanent cost and productivity savings under the Company's STEP Change program which will formally conclude in June 2011. Launched in mid-2008 as a proactive measure ahead of the broader global economic downturn, the program targets far-reaching improvements in cost and capital efficiency and operational excellence across the Company's global operations.
"I am very proud of the response from every level of the HARMAN organization in achieving these tremendous results," said Dinesh C. Paliwal, the Company's Chairman, President and CEO. "Beyond dramatic improvements in our cost structure and productivity, the STEP Change program has driven a new culture of continuous improvement across the HARMAN team. I am confident that we will see lasting and continued benefits from this milestone strategic initiative."
The HARMAN STEP Change program is composed of nearly 250 bottom-up initiatives for optimizing the Company's global footprint, reducing supply chain and logistics costs, and improving overall efficiency. A dedicated project team, supported by real-time tracking systems, has monitored each program step to ensure transparency and to alert owners to the status of key milestones. The program included closure or consolidation of 16 HARMAN facilities and the reduction of 2250 jobs in high-cost countries during the past three years. Complementing these, HARMAN has dramatically expanded its presence in the emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China where the Company is targeting $1.5 billion in revenues by 2015.
"I am confident that STEP Change not only enabled HARMAN to endure the global economic downturn but allowed us to return to profitable growth faster than many peers," continued Paliwal. "We are on track to creating significant new value with five consecutive quarters of improvement at top and bottom line, highlighted by an 82 percent improvement in year-on-year operating income for our most recent reporting period."
HARMAN (www.harman.com) designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The Company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 20 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 11,800 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported sales of $3.5 billion for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. The Company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
HAR-C


