FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20120615094223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 15, 2012, Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release providing an update on its authorized share buyback program. The foregoing is qualified by reference to the press release which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by this reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished, not filed, and accordingly it will not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 15, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
15 June 2012  FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Robert V. Lardon
Vice President, Investor Relations
Harman International Industries, Incorporated
203.328.3500
robert.lardon@harman.com
HARMAN Provides Update on Share Buyback Program
STAMFORD, CT  Harman International Industries, Incorporated (NYSE: HAR) today provided an update on its previously announced $200 million share repurchase program.
As of June 14, 2012, the Company has repurchased just over $100 million of Company common stock, which represents more than half of the amount authorized by our Board in October 2011.
Dinesh C. Paliwal, President, Chairman, and CEO of Harman, commented, "We believe the repurchase of our shares represents a sound investment decision for our Company given recent trading prices. If the price of our shares remains at or around the current market price level, we plan to continue to buy back our shares in accordance with the economic parameters of the repurchase program, as approved by our Board."
The buyback program allows the Company to purchase shares of common stock in accordance with applicable securities laws on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions from time-to-time during the authorized 12 month period. The Company will continue to determine the timing and the amount of any repurchases based on its evaluation of market conditions, share price and other factors, and the buyback program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
About HARMAN
HARMAN (www.harman.com) designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands, including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 25 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 13,000 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported net sales of $4.3 billion for the 12 months ended March 31, 2012. The company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this news release are forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to events or conditions or that include words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "will," "could" and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements set forth above involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any such statement, including the risks and uncertainties discussed in the company's Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements included in the company's recent filings, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
2012 HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated. All rights reserved. Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson are trademarks of HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, registered in the United States and/or other countries. AKG is a trademark of AKG Acoustics GmbH, registered in the United States and/or other countries. Features, specifications and appearance are subject to change without notice.


