FILE:HAR/HAR-8K-20120810082100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 10, 2012, Harman International Industries, Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Earnings Release") announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the Earnings Release is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
See Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" above.
On August 10, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing revised fiscal year 2013 financial guidance (the "Guidance Release"). The foregoing is qualified by reference to the Guidance Release, which is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, is being furnished, not filed, and accordingly it will not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 10, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
HARMAN Q4 Operating Income up 174% to $71M; Full Year OI up 58% to $300 million and Sales Up 16%
 
 
 
 
 
STAMFORD, CT, August 10, 2012  Harman International Industries, Incorporated, the leading global audio and infotainment group (NYSE: HAR), today announced results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. In a separate release, the Company updated its fiscal 2013 guidance for foreign currency changes; on a constant currency basis, the Company confirmed its previous guidance.
Net sales for the fiscal year were $4.4 billion, an increase of 16 percent compared to the prior year. In local currency, net sales increased by 17 percent. On a GAAP basis, operating profit increased by 58 percent to $300 million compared to $190 million in the prior year. Excluding restructuring expenses, annual operating profit was $310 million, an increase of 47 percent compared to $211 million in the prior year. On a non-GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share were $2.93 for the year, an increase of 41 percent versus $2.08 reported in the prior year. On a GAAP basis, which includes the benefit from a tax asset valuation allowance release, earnings per diluted share were $4.57 for the year compared to $1.90 in the prior year.
Net sales for the fourth quarter were $1,091 million, an increase of 6 percent compared to the same period last year. In local currency, net sales increased by 14 percent. Fourth quarter operating income was $71 million, compared to $26 million in the same period last year. Excluding restructuring charges, operating profit in the fourth quarter grew by 101 percent to $70 million, compared to $35 million in the same period last year. On a non-GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share were $0.67 for the quarter compared to $0.34 in the same period last year. On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share were $0.69 for the quarter compared to $0.26 in the same period last year. The Company further noted $0.02 negative impact of currency on EPS which was offset by the positive benefit of share buyback activity during the quarter.
Harman Chairman, President and CEO Dinesh Paliwal said, "We had a terrific year! Our full year and fourth quarter results reflect double digit top- and bottom-line growth which helped us deliver a 41% increase in earnings per share. Although the macroeconomic environment remains uncertain, we are cautiously optimistic and continue to focus on growth, cost management and productivity initiatives aimed at expanding our operating margins and we are making the critical investments necessary to sustain our profitable growth for the future."
"Paliwal added, "Our innovation emphasis drove an increase of 37 percent in our new patents and patents filings this past year. These ongoing investments in technology, our strong pipeline of new products, our luxury brands and the expansion of our channels globally position us for healthy secular growth. We are on the forefront of developing connected car technologies with a focus on active driver safety. We successfully collaborate and integrate technologies from Google, Apple, Microsoft and others. We concur with automakers that embedded infotainment system penetration will continue to grow rapidly and it will be complimented by smart mobile devices. Our recent record order wins for the embedded infotainment systems confirm our strategy and business model."
"We continue to win new infotainment and car audio orders both in the US and abroad as 28 percent of our record high order backlog of $16 billion represents new business including new customers like GM, Tata, Geely and BAIC. With strong growth in BRIC markets led by China up 42%, our sales are well diversified globally," said Paliwal.
"We are highly focused on shareholder value creation, through organic growth, strategic acquisitions and directly through our dividend and share buyback programs," noted Paliwal. "We have worked hard to build a strong balance sheet that facilitates all of these strategies. In the last quarter, we took advantage of market opportunity to repurchase our stock and announced the doubling of our dividend."
 
Summary of Continuing Operations  Gross Margin and SG&A
Gross margin on a GAAP basis increased 90 basis points to 27.1 percent in fiscal 2012. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to better leverage of fixed costs on higher sales and productivity improvements in the cost base.
SG&A and Other expense as a percentage of sales on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2012 declined 60 basis points to 20.1 percent.
The Company generated $269 million in cash from operations in fiscal 2012.
 
 
 
Investor Call on August 10, 2012
HARMAN will conduct an investor and analyst call hosted by CEO Dinesh Paliwal, and CFO Herbert Parker. Those who wish to participate via audio in the earnings conference call scheduled at 11:00 a.m. EDT should dial 1.800-269-0310 (U.S.) or +1 (303) 223-2680 (International) ten minutes before the call and reference HARMAN Access Code 21599087. A replay of the call will also be available following its completion at approximately 1:00 p.m. EDT. The replay will be available through October 10, 2012 at 1:00 p.m. EDT. To listen to the replay, dial 1 (800) 633 8284 (U.S.) or +1 (402) 977 9140 (International), Access Code: 21599087.
11:00 a.m. EDT:
NOTE: For reference during its analyst and investor conference call, the Company has posted a set of informational slides on its web site at www.harman.com and accompanying this press release on www.businesswire.com.
In addition, Harman invites you to visit the Investors section of its website at: www.harman.com where visitors can sign-up for email alerts and conveniently download copies of historical earnings releases and supporting slide presentations, among other documents.
General Information
HARMAN (www.harman.com) designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands, including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 20 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 13,400 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported sales of $4.4 billion for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. The Company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures included in this press release to the most comparable GAAP measures is provided in the tables contained at the end of this press release. HARMAN does not intend for this information to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-Looking Information
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. One should not place undue reliance on these statements. We base these statements on particular assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience, as well as our perception of historical trends, current market conditions, current economic data, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: (1) our ability to maintain profitability in our infotainment segment if there are delays in our product launches which may give rise to significant penalties and increased engineering expense; (2) the loss of one or more significant customers, or the loss of a significant platform with an automotive customer; (3) fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the value of the U.S. Dollar and the Euro; (4) our ability to successfully implement our global footprint initiative, including achieving cost reductions and other benefits in connection with the restructuring of our manufacturing, engineering, procurement and administrative organizations; (5) fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials including, without limitation, petroleum, copper, steel, aluminum, synthetic resins, rare metals and rare-earth minerals, or shortages of materials, parts and components; (6) the inability of our suppliers to deliver products at the scheduled rate and disruptions arising in connection therewith; (7) our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and to prepare and implement an appropriate succession plan for our critical organizational positions; (8) our failure to implement and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program; (9) our failure to comply with governmental rules and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. export control laws, and the cost of compliance with such laws; (10) our ability to maintain a competitive technological advantage through innovation and leading product designs; (11) our failure to maintain the value of our brands and implementing a sufficient brand protection program; and (12) other risks detailed in Harman International Industries, Incorporated Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and other filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement except as required by law. This earnings release also makes reference to the Company's awarded business, which represents the estimated future lifetime net sales for all customers. The Company's future awarded business does not represent firm customer orders. The Company calculates its awarded business using various assumptions including global vehicle production forecasts, customer take rates for the Company's products, revisions to product life cycle estimates and the impact of annual price reductions, among other factors. These assumptions are updated on an annual basis. The Company updates the estimates quarterly by adding the value of new awards received and subtracting sales recorded during the quarter.
HAR-E
 
APPENDIX
Infotainment Division
 
 
Net sales in fiscal 2012 were $2.4 billion, an increase of 15 percent, or 17 percent in local currency. Higher sales were driven by robust demand in the luxury automotive segment and rapid adoption of the scalable platform in the mid segment car market. Continued growth in BRIC countries was led by 34 percent growth in China. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2012 increased 380 basis points to 23.4 percent.
As a percentage of sales on a non-GAAP basis, SG&A and Other increased 40 basis points to 15.8 percent. Excluding the one-time gain related to the monetization of intellectual property rights last year, the SG&A and Other expense was reduced by 40 basis points.
The infotainment division has gone through a major transformation from a loss position to an industry profit leader. Full year operating margin, on a non-GAAP basis, has increased to 7.6 percent from 4.2 percent last year.
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $588 million, a decrease of 4 percent, or an increase of 5 percent in local currency. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter increased 480 basis points to 23.2 percent. The $11.7 million of non-recurring costs discussed in the fourth quarter of last year did not occur this quarter and as such, aided in the improvement. SG&A and Other expense on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter increased 120 basis points to 16.6 percent.
Infotainment Division Highlights
In FY 2012, HARMAN continues to drive new business in embedded infotainment systems globally.
 
 
 
 
Major launches this year included: BMW Connected Drive, Toyota Touch & Go, Toyota Entune, and Audi MMI 3G+. The Company launched a new scalable infotainment system in Ferrari's F12 berlinetta featuring the latest in-dash and connected functionality.
To meet the growing demand for entry-level embedded infotainment systems, HARMAN launched a new scalable infotainment platform targeting entry- and mid-segment vehicles.
 
Lifestyle Division
 
 
Net sales in the fiscal 2012 were $1,331 million, an increase of 22 percent, or 24 percent in local currency. Higher sales were primarily driven by robust demand in the luxury automotive segment and continued growth in BRIC countries, led by 77 percent growth in China. Pass-through neodymium cost surcharges contributed 4 percent of the growth in revenue at zero margin. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis decreased 230 basis points to 28.8 percent. The reduction was primarily due to neodymium cost increases and investments related to completion of new production capacity in China and Mexico. We expect favorable margin development due to reduced neodymium cost impact as well as productivity gains as these new facilities fully ramp up during the next fiscal year.
On a non-GAAP basis, SG&A and Other expense declined 300 basis points to 18.1 percent for the year.
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $330 million, an increase of 31 percent, or 39 percent in local currency. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter increased 400 basis points to 30.3 percent. SG&A and Other expense on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter declined 540 basis points to 18.3 percent.
Lifestyle Division Highlights
In Fiscal 2012, HARMAN continued to extend its leadership in automotive audio globally:
 
 
 
 
During the fourth quarter, the Company launched Harman Kardon headphones across Apple stores, and JBL headphones in Wal-Mart.
In 2012, the Company launched major global brand marketing campaigns with Paul McCartney, Maroon 5, Jennifer Lopez, AR Rahman, Liu Huan and Tim McGraw. As a result of our effective marketing initiatives, we are clearly seeing the increase in brand awareness, favorable consumer purchasing decisions and increase in automotive audio take rates.
 
Professional Division
 
 
Professional Division net sales in fiscal 2012 were $631 million, an increase of 6 percent compared to the prior year. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in fiscal 2012 decreased 230 basis points to 38.4 percent. The primary reason for the gross margin decline was higher costs for neodymium magnets and investments related to completion of new production capacity in China. SG&A and Other expense on a non-GAAP basis decreased by 90 basis points to 24.0 percent. We expect favorable margin development due to reduced neodymium cost impact as well as revenue from high margin new products in the next fiscal year.
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $172 million, an increase of 3 percent, or 6 percent in local currency. Gross margin on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter decreased 440 basis points to 36.3 percent. SG&A and Other expense on a non-GAAP basis decreased by 210 basis points to 21.6 percent.
Professional Division Highlights
In FY12, HARMAN delivered equipment for over 20 new stadium and large venue audio installations ranging from the Staples Center in Los Angeles to the People's Great Hall in Beijing.
HARMAN's new IDX systems were sold and installed at eight international airports & train stations. The Company's products continue to take center stage at major special events such as the London Olympic Games, Super Bowl, the Grammy Awards, the UEFA Euro 2012 Soccer Championship Games and for concert tours including Lady Antebellum, Neil Diamond, Jimmy Buffet, Lenny Kravitz and more.
During the year, the Division advanced its leadership in digital amplification, signal processing, large array self-powered loudspeakers, and innovative apps-based guitar effects pedals.
 
Other (Corporate)
 
 
The Company continued the rollout of its global marketing campaigns. The Company's Corporate Technology Center is driving and enabling cutting-edge development in connectivity and networking, cloud computing, wireless technologies, digital signal processing, and energy-efficient solutions. The Company is building on its base of more than 4,400 patents and patents pending, including more than 700 patents issued or filed worldwide this fiscal year. The increase in fourth quarter SG&A expense compared to the prior year is primarily from investments in global brand marketing, IT-related systems for e-commerce and supply chain management, and new technology innovation projects within the Corporate Technology Center.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our non-recurring charges. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our non-recurring charges. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our non-recurring charges. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in order to provide the users of these financial statements with a better understanding of our non-recurring charges. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These measurements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 
Harman International has provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures in the table above to provide the users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Company's performance. Because changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported financial results, we show the rates of change both including and excluding the effect of these changes in exchange rates. We encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. These non-GAAP measures are not measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. This measurement should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information contained in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Contact: Robert V. Lardon
Vice President, Investor Relations
Harman International Industries, Incorporated
203.328.3500
robert.lardon@harman.com
August 10, 2012
HARMAN Updates FY13 Guidance Range
STAMFORD, CT  HARMAN, the leading global audio and infotainment group (NYSE: HAR), today updated its prior guidance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, which was last updated on October 26, 2011. The guidance revision for both sales and earnings are adjusted from the October 26
th
targets due to the translation impact of the weaker euro. On a constant currency basis, the Company confirmed its previous guidance.
The Company noted that this guidance will be discussed today during its Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Results Investor and Analyst Call, for which details are provided below.
Guidance as of October 26, 2011 (FX = $1.35\, 72M shares)
 
Guidance as of August 10, 2012 (FX = $1.24\, 69M shares)
 
Press Release
Analyst and Investor Call-In Details
At 11:00 a.m. EDT on Friday, August 10, 2012, HARMAN's management will host an analyst and investor conference call to discuss the fourth quarter and full year results, as well as the guidance update. Those who wish to participate via audio in the earnings conference call, scheduled at 11:00 a.m. EDT, should dial 1 (800) 269 0310 (U.S.) or +1 (303) 223 2680 (International) ten minutes before the call and reference HARMAN, Access Code: 21599087.
If you need technical assistance, call the toll-free Global Crossing Customer Care Line at 1 (800) 473 0602 (U.S.) or +1 (303) 446 4604 (International).
A replay of the call will also be available through October 10, 2012 at 1:00 p.m. EDT. To listen to the replay, dial 1 (800) 633 8284 (U.S.) or +1 (402) 977 9140 (International), Access Code: 21599087.
Forward-Looking Information
Except for historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. One should not place undue reliance on these statements. We base these statements on particular assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience, as well as our perception of historical trends, current market conditions, current economic data, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: (1) our ability to maintain profitability in our infotainment segment if there are delays in our product launches which may give rise to significant penalties and increased engineering expense; (2) the loss of one or more significant customers, or the loss of a significant platform with an automotive customer; (3) fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the value of the U.S. Dollar and the Euro; (4) our ability to successfully implement our global footprint initiative, including achieving cost reductions and other benefits in connection with the restructuring of our manufacturing, engineering, procurement and administrative organizations; (5) fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials including, without limitation, petroleum, copper, steel, aluminum, synthetic resins, rare metals and rare-earth minerals, or shortages of materials, parts and components; (6) the inability of our suppliers to deliver products at the scheduled rate and disruptions arising in connection therewith; (7) our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and to prepare and implement an appropriate succession plan for our critical organizational positions; (8) our failure to implement and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program; (9) our failure to comply with governmental rules and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. export control laws, and the cost of compliance with such laws; (10) our ability to maintain a competitive technological advantage through innovation and leading product designs; (11) our failure to maintain the value of our brands and implementing a sufficient brand protection program; and (12) other risks detailed in Harman International Industries, Incorporated Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and other filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement except as required by law.
HARMAN (www.harman.com) designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of audio and infotainment solutions for the automotive, consumer and professional markets  supported by 15 leading brands, including AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson. The company is admired by audiophiles across multiple generations and supports leading professional entertainers and the venues where they perform. More than 20 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and infotainment systems. HARMAN has a workforce of about 13,400 people across the Americas, Europe and Asia, and reported sales of $4.4 billion for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. The Company's shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NYSE:HAR.
HAR-C
 
2012 HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated. All rights reserved. Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon and Mark Levinson are trademarks of HARMAN International Industries, Incorporated, registered in the United States and/or other countries. AKG is a trademark of AKG Acoustics GmbH, registered in the United States and/or other countries. Features, specifications and appearance are subject to change without notice.


