Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. 2005 HIGHLIGHTS For the full year 2005, we posted record sales but earnings declined mainly due to charges associated with our restructuring activities. Sales increased primarily from acquisitions and inflation. In September, we launched a significant broad based initiative (the Restructuring Plan) to reduce excess capacity and improve performance in a number of our businesses. We made significant progress on the restructuring in the fourth quarter and expect to have most of this activity completed by mid 2006. Future years earnings should benefit from the cost savings and improved asset utilization this restructuring activity is expected to bring. Acquisition activity increased in 2005 as we completed 12 transactions, including the third largest in our history. These acquisitions should benefit Leggett by enhancing our position in current markets, increasing our product offerings and expanding our geographic presence. Our use of cash in 2005 was consistent with our stated priorities: We funded capital expenditures at levels slightly higher than 2004. Spending on acquisitions increased due to the size and number of opportunities we brought to completion. We raised our dividend for the 34th consecutive year. Cash used for share repurchases increased significantly; we bought back more shares than in any previous year. Cash from operations, our primary source of funds, was significantly higher in 2005 than in 2004. We also issued debt during the year and increased our percentage of net debt to net capital toward our long term, targeted range. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW What We Do Leggett & Platt is a FORTUNE 500 diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs, and produces a broad range of engineered components and products that can be found in many homes, retail stores, offices, and automobiles. We make components that are often hidden within, but integral to, our customers products. We are North Americas leading independent manufacturer of: components for residential furniture and bedding, adjustable beds, carpet underlay, retail store fixtures and point of purchase displays, components for office furniture, non automotive aluminum die castings, drawn steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and machinery used by the bedding industry for wire forming, sewing, and quilting. 24 Table of Contents Our Segments Our 122 year old company is composed of 29 business units under five reportable segments, with approximately 33,000 employee partners, and more than 300 facilities located in over 20 countries around the world. Our five segments are Residential Furnishings, Commercial Fixturing & Components, Aluminum Products, Industrial Materials, and Specialized Products. Residential Furnishings: This segment supplies a variety of components mainly used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. We also sell adjustable beds, bed frames, ornamental beds, carpet cushion, geo components, and other finished products. Commercial Fixturing & Components: Operations in this segment produce: a) store fixtures, point of purchase displays, and storage products used by retailers; b) chair controls, bases, and other components for office furniture manufacturers; and c) injection molded plastic components used in a variety of end products. Aluminum Products: This segment provides die cast aluminum components for customers that manufacture many products including motorcycles, diesel and small engines, outdoor lighting fixtures, gas barbeque grills, appliances, power tools, and consumer electronics, among others. Industrial Materials: These operations primarily supply steel rod, drawn steel wire, and welded steel tubing to other Leggett operations and to external customers. Our wire and tubing is used to make bedding, furniture, automotive seats, retail store fixtures and displays, mechanical springs, and many other end products. Specialized Products: From this segment we supply lumbar systems and wire components used by automotive seating manufacturers. We design, produce, and sell van interiors (the racks, shelving, cabinets, etc. installed in service vans) and truck bodies (for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks, and dump trucks) used in light to medium duty commercial trucks. We also design and produce machinery, both for our own use and for others, including bedding manufacturers. Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with no single one representing 5% of our sales. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture, bedding, and automobiles, many major retailers, and a variety of other manufacturers. 25 Table of Contents We primarily sell our products through our own sales employees, although we also use independent sales representatives and distributors in some of our businesses. Competition Most of our markets are highly competitive with the number of competitors varying by product line (they tend to be smaller, private companies). We believe we gain competitive advantage in our global markets through low cost operations, significant internal production of key raw materials, superior manufacturing expertise and product innovation, higher quality products, extensive customer service capabilities, long lived relationships with customers, and greater financial strength. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering product quality, innovation, and customer service. We face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components or finished products from Asia. When prices for key materials (such as steel, aluminum, and chemicals) are relatively level throughout the world, we can generally produce our components at a lower cost in the U.S. (because many of our products have low labor content). However, in instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. At the end of 2005, Leggett operated 11 facilities in China. Asian manufacturers are currently thought to benefit from lower commodity costs (we believe certain commodities are sometimes subsidized by Asian governments), lenient attitudes toward safety and environmental matters, and currency rates that are pegged to the U.S. dollar rather than free floating. When exporting to the U.S., Asian manufacturers must overcome higher transportation costs, increased working capital needs, and difficulty matching U.S. manufacturers level of service, flexibility, and logistics. Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business every year, but those that generally have the greatest impact are: market demand for our products, raw material cost trends, energy costs, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In recent years, weak performance by our Fixture & Display operations has also impacted our results. Market Demand Market demand is impacted by many broad economic factors, including consumer confidence, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs, and interest rates. These factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence the level of business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Market demand can also be affected by inflation in raw materials (discussed below) when cost increases cause customers to change the design of their products (and the type of components they use) to offset higher costs. Raw Materials In many of our businesses we have a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that many of our competitors do not enjoy. Still, our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) increase and decrease. Purchasing arrangements vary considerably across the company. Because we typically have short term commitments from vendors, our raw material costs generally fluctuate with the market. In certain of our businesses, we have longer term contracts with pricing terms that provide stability under reasonable market conditions. However, when commodities experience extreme inflation, vendors may not honor those contracts. 26 Table of Contents This situation occurred in 2004 when steel costs nearly doubled, and again in 2005 when the cost of chemicals, fibers, and resins increased significantly. Vendors were unable to honor the pricing terms in purchase contracts due to extreme market conditions. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is a critical factor when we experience inflation. We have few long term, fixed pricing contracts with customers. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Although we are generally able to pass through most cost increases, we encounter greater difficulty in businesses where we have a smaller market share and in products that are of a commodity nature. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can impact our earnings. Steel is our largest raw material. During 2004, the price of certain types of steel nearly doubled, but we were able to recover most of these higher costs through selling price increases. In 2005, market prices for most types of steel were slightly lower at the end of the year than at the beginning of the year. Unprecedented price increases in the steel market during 2004 led to an above average spread between scrap costs and rod prices. This spread continued throughout 2005, enhancing the earnings of our steel rod mill. While we expect the average spread to be lower in 2006, scrap costs have been volatile and the spread is difficult to predict. In 2005, we experienced significant inflation in chemicals, fibers, and resins (generally driven by changes in oil prices). By year end, the majority of these cost increases had been passed through to our customers. In addition to steel and oil based materials, we also use significant amounts of aluminum. However, we are generally less exposed to cost changes in this commodity because of the pricing arrangements we have with our customers. Energy Costs Higher prices for natural gas, electricity, and fuel increase our production and delivery costs. Many of our large manufacturing operations are heavy users of natural gas and electricity. In addition, certain of our sales are made with terms such that we incur the fuel cost associated with delivering the product to our customers facility. Our ability to respond to these cost increases (by raising selling prices) affects our operating results. Higher energy costs can also reduce consumer demand for our products. As consumers pay more for fuel and utilities, they have less disposable income available to purchase products that contain our components. Energy costs increased throughout 2005 but especially in the last half of the year, in part due to supply disruptions caused by the hurricanes. We continuously monitor natural gas trends and have locked in prices on a portion of our natural gas requirements for the next three years. The details of those arrangements are discussed in Note P to the financial statements (on page 85). Foreign Currency As we expand internationally, our exposure to foreign currencies grows. Our greatest exposures are currently to the Canadian dollar and the Euro. We occasionally use various types of contracts, options, and other arrangements to mitigate some of this exposure. The details of these arrangements are also discussed in Note P to the financial statements (on page 85). However, since these arrangements are used on a limited basis, our earnings are generally impacted by variability in the currency exchanges rates of countries where we operate. In recent years, weve been particularly impacted by the weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar. In certain operations, we incur costs in Canadian dollars and sell products in U.S. dollars. The decline of the U.S. dollar in recent years has reduced earnings of these operations. 27 Table of Contents Fixture & Display Performance Two years ago, we initiated an effort to improve the performance of the Commercial segment and specifically the Fixture & Display operations. We made progress in 2004, as Commercial segment margins improved to 5.1% (from 2.8% in 2003). We expected further improvement in 2005 but it did not occur. Excluding restructuring, asset impairment, and inventory obsolescence charges, Commercial segment margins in 2005 were essentially unchanged from those of 2004. In 2005, benefits from our prior cost savings initiatives were offset by higher start up costs associated with new fixture programs and operating inefficiencies related to the ongoing integration of RHC Spacemaster (a company we acquired in July 2003). Were committed to improving the segment margins and expect to accomplish gains through our current restructuring efforts. However, earnings must improve appreciably from current levels or further restructuring may be initiated. Restructuring and Asset Impairments In 2005, we incurred restructuring related and asset impairment charges totaling $55 million, compared to $9 million in 2004, and ($1) million in 2003. Through June 30, 2005, the level of restructuring activity was not unusual. However in the third quarter, we launched a significant broad based restructuring project (Restructuring Plan) to reduce excess capacity and improve performance in a number of our businesses. We had maintained spare capacity for several years expecting market demand to increase but that incremental demand has not materialized. We made significant progress on the Restructuring Plan activities by year end. As part of the Restructuring Plan, we identified 36 underutilized or underperforming facilities to be closed, consolidated, or sold (the Closure and Consolidation Initiative). We also took a more critical look at other underperforming operations; as a result, we modified or accelerated restructuring activities that were previously underway, and identified other operations with impaired assets. Total expenses associated with the Restructuring Plan should approximate $78 million, of which about half will be non cash charges. This estimate includes the cost of plant closures (building cleanup and repair), equipment relocation, employee severance pay, asset impairment, inventory obsolescence, and similar expenses. We incurred $55 million of these costs in 2005 and expect to incur the remaining $23 million in 2006, primarily in the first half of the year. These estimates do not include future benefits from the sales of buildings, real estate, or equipment, so our final net costs will be lower. More detail regarding the breakdown of these charges is shown below. Amount Cash Non Cash (Dollar amounts in millions) Restructuring charges $ 11.9 Asset impairment charges 16.0 Inventory obsolescence and other costs 12.4 2005 Closure & Consolidation Initiative 40.3 $ 13.6 $ 26.7 Costs related to other activity 14.6 9.8 4.8 2005 costs for Restructuring Plan 54.9 23.4 31.5 2006 expected costs for Restructuring Plan 23.0 19.0 4.0 Total anticipated Restructuring Plan costs $ 77.9 $ 42.4 $ 35.5 Of the 36 facilities under the Closure and Consolidation Initiative, about half are in Residential Furnishings, one quarter are in Commercial Fixturing & Components, and the remainder are in Industrial Materials and Specialized Products. These operations had total revenue of roughly $400 million. Most of this volume should shift to surviving facilities, but a $90 million sales reduction is expected as we divest small, non core operations and walk away from unprofitable business. The majority of this volume reduction should occur in the Residential and Commercial segments. We have determined which of our remaining locations will absorb displaced volume, and are addressing issues related to relocating equipment, inventory, and customer service. 28 Table of Contents We estimate an ongoing annual pre tax earnings benefit from the Restructuring Plan of approximately $30 $35 million. At least half of this improvement should be realized in 2006 with the full benefit expected in subsequent years. This benefit results from the elimination of fixed costs associated with closed facilities, a reduction in the number of employees, and improved overhead absorption from increased volume at our remaining facilities. The Restructuring Plan should yield improved margins and returns in all segments. About one half of the expected benefit should occur in Residential Furnishings, 15 20% of the benefit should impact Commercial Fixturing & Components, and approximately 10 15% of the benefit should occur in each of our other three segments. Acquisitions We completed 12 acquisitions in 2005 that should add about $320 million to annual sales. The two largest, Americas Body Company and Ikex/Jarex, establish sizeable new business platforms with opportunities for future growth. Americas Body Company (ABC), was acquired in late October and generates annual revenue of approximately $150 million (this is the third largest acquisition in our history). ABC is a designer, manufacturer, and supplier of equipment for light to medium duty commercial trucks. Major product categories include van interiors (racks, shelving, and cabinets installed in service vans) and truck bodies (for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks, and dump trucks). This business joined our existing van interiors operations to form the Commercial Vehicle Products group (in our Specialized Products segment). With combined group sales of approximately $250 million, we are now the second largest supplier in a $1.5 billion U.S. market. While the industry is highly fragmented and contains many small, regional manufacturers, only a few competitors provide as wide a range of products and service locations. Through the acquisition of Ikex/Jarex, we significantly expanded our presence in the conversion and distribution of geo components. This transaction was completed in early October and should add roughly $65 million in revenue, bringing our total annual sales in this business unit to approximately $80 million (this business unit is in our Residential Furnishings segment). Geo components include geotextiles, or synthetic fabrics (typically polypropylene, polyethylene, or polyester) used in a variety of applications such as ground stabilization, drainage protection, erosion control and weed control. These products are sold primarily into the construction, landscaping, and agricultural industries. The highly fragmented U.S. market for geotextiles is believed to approximate $900 million annually, consisting mostly of small, regional suppliers. This acquisition should enhance our competitive position in the geo component market through national presence, high volume purchasing and manufacturing, and established distribution and marketing infrastructure. We provide additional details about acquisitions in Note B to the financial statements on page 63. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 vs. 2004 We achieved record sales in 2005, exceeding the prior year by 4%. Earnings for the year decreased primarily due to restructuring, asset impairment, and inventory obsolescence charges (related to the Restructuring Plan). Inflation was a challenge during the year, primarily in oil based raw materials, but by year end we had recovered most of these higher costs through selling price increases. Further details about these items and our consolidated and segment results are discussed below. 29 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED RESULTS The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from 2004 to 2005 and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes: Amount % (Dollar amountsin millions, exceptper share data) Net sales: Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 5,086 Acquisition sales growth (net of divestitures) 107 2.1 % Internal sales growth 106 2.1 % Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 5,299 4.2 % Net earnings: Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 285 Restructuring related charges (37 ) Higher workers compensation expense (14 ) Lower tax rate 10 Increased sales and other 7 Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 251 Earnings Per Share December 31, 2004 $ 1.45 Earnings Per Share December 31, 2005 $ 1.30 Internal growth and acquisitions each contributed about half the net sales increase. Internal sales growth (i.e. excluding acquisitions and divestitures) was mainly due to inflation we implemented price increases to recover higher raw material costs. These increases related primarily to higher costs for steel early in the year (versus lower levels in early 2004) and for chemicals, fibers, and resins throughout 2005. By late 2005, steel costs had declined (versus peak levels in the last half of 2004) and we experienced modest deflation in a few businesses. Unit volumes were mixed across our various markets. For the full year, we posted solid growth in our businesses supplying upholstered furniture components, but these gains were offset by declines in our bedding and automotive businesses. Volume was essentially flat in many of our other markets. These trends are discussed in the segment results below. Inflation was a significant challenge again in 2005. The largest impact resulted from higher oil prices which affect the cost of raw materials such as chemicals, fibers, and resins. Many of these costs rose throughout the year, but the increases accelerated following last years hurricanes. In response, we raised prices to our customers, and by year end had recovered most of the higher costs. Net earnings and earnings per share decreased versus 2004 primarily due to: Restructuring related charges: As shown in the table above, restructuring related charges represent the majority of the decrease in 2005 earnings. These charges include the cost of plant closures, equipment relocation, employee severance pay, asset impairment, inventory obsolescence, and other similar costs associated with the Restructuring Plan discussed on page 28. Higher workers compensation expense: In 2005, we significantly increased our reserves for workers compensation to reflect higher cost of medical care and longer duration of claims (more treatment options are available and can continue over longer periods of time). Earnings were also affected by higher energy and transportation costs, and a weaker U.S. dollar (which caused margin declines in our Canadian operations that sell in U.S. dollars but incur costs in Canadian dollars). 30 Table of Contents These declines were partially offset by benefits from sales growth and a tax benefit from a planned foreign entity restructuring and cash repatriation transaction. This transaction generated a net tax benefit of approximately $10 million. SEGMENT RESULTS In the following section we discuss 2005 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for each of our segments. A reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT is provided in Note L to the financial statements on page 78. All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In 2004, segment margins generally benefited under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs. In 2005, declining steel costs caused margins (mainly in Residential and Industrial) to decrease under this same method. In our consolidated financials, we use the last in, first out (LIFO) method for determining cost of about half of our inventories. An adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert the appropriate operations to the LIFO inventory method. RESIDENTIAL FURNISHINGS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 2,622 $ 170 6.5 % Year ended December 31, 2004 2,482 265 10.7 % Increase (decrease) $ 140 $ (95 ) % increase (decrease) 6 % (36 )% Internal sales growth 3 % Acquisition sales growth 3 % Sales in Residential Furnishings increased in 2005 from a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. Inflation contributed the bulk of the internal sales growth. During the first half of 2005, sales increased over last year due to price increases (for the pass through of higher steel costs) implemented in the latter part of 2004. In the last half of 2005, declining steel costs (which were also passed through to our customers) resulted in slight deflation in certain businesses. When combined, these price related factors led to higher full year sales. Unit volume declines and changes in product mix partially offset sales growth from inflation in 2005. Unit volumes were down slightly, with decreases in bedding more than offsetting gains in upholstered furniture components. In addition, inflation in the raw materials used to produce finished bedding and upholstered furniture has, in certain cases, led our customers to change their product design, which has reduced the quantity and changed the mix of components they buy from us. Market demand for bedding was weak for much of the year, but began to improve in early September and continued on a positive track through year end. For the past few years, bedding industry unit volume, including all types of mattresses, has been flat to slightly down. Overall consumer spending has been solid, but consumers have not been purchasing or replacing mattresses at historic rates. Bedding purchases are deferrable and are influenced by consumer confidence and the amount of cash consumers have available to spend on discretionary items. Higher gasoline and energy costs (as seen throughout 2005) reduce this discretionary spending. In addition, advertising expenditures by bedding manufacturers have also been lower in recent years. As the cost of materials (such as steel components and foam) increased significantly, these manufacturers cut expenditures in other areas (including advertising). Lower advertising levels negatively impact consumer demand for bedding. 31 Table of Contents For the full year 2005, we posted solid growth in our businesses supplying upholstered furniture components. We sell to most manufacturers of motion upholstered furniture. These customers include major public furniture producers as well as privately owned manufacturers. We also benefit from increased world wide demand. Our international presence and depth of product line allow us to efficiently supply upholstered furniture manufacturers in many parts of the world. In addition, weve benefited from an industry trend to incorporate high quality motion features into more lines of furniture. Our consistent growth in this business since 2002 reflects all these factors. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 due to several factors: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($26 million) Selling price decreases related to lower steel costs We reduced selling prices (to reflect lower steel costs) more quickly than we were able to consume our higher cost inventories. Higher energy and transportation costs Increased workers compensation expense ($11 million) Changes in product mix (increased sales of lower margin components) Currency impacts (approximately $6 million) In certain operations, we incur costs in Canadian dollars and sell products in U.S. dollars. The weaker U.S. dollar caused margin declines in these operations. Unit volume declines in bedding, which resulted in lower utilization rates and reduced overhead absorption Inflation in certain raw materials COMMERCIAL FIXTURING & COMPONENTS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 1,147 $ 39 3.4 % Year ended December 31, 2004 1,078 55 5.1 % Increase (decrease) $ 69 $ (16 ) % increase (decrease) 6 % (29 )% Internal sales growth 5 % Acquisition sales growth 1 % Internal growth accounted for the bulk of the sales increase in 2005. Inflation (primarily related to higher steel costs) and higher unit volumes each contributed about half of the internal sales growth. Our Fixture & Display businesses experienced modest increases in unit volume during the year. Although volume declines have stopped, we have not yet seen notable, sustained improvements in demand. Many retailers remained reluctant to increase spending for remodeling programs and new store construction. We also posted slight unit volume gains in office furniture components, which continued a trend of stable to improving market conditions that began mid year 2003. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 primarily due to: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($14 million) Currency impacts (approximately $6 million) Higher workers compensation expense ($5 million) These items were partially offset by benefits related to slightly higher unit volume and gains from assets sales (approximately $3 million). 32 Table of Contents ALUMINUM PRODUCTS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 531 $ 31 5.8 % Year ended December 31, 2004 522 46 8.7 % Increase (decrease) $ 9 $ (15 ) % increase (decrease) 2 % (33 )% Internal sales growth 2 % Acquisition sales growth Higher sales in 2005 were entirely due to internal growth. Unit volumes were up slightly, but inflation contributed most of the increase (as we passed through higher raw material costs). The rate of internal growth in this segment slowed as the year progressed and we reached the one year anniversary of the start up of major new programs from 2004. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 due to: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($3 million) Inefficiencies at some plants primarily losses at a facility that is now closed and costs associated with the start up of new programs Higher energy costs A work stoppage at one facility INDUSTRIAL MATERIALS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 844 $ 104 12.3 % Year ended December 31, 2004 818 122 14.9 % Increase (decrease) $ 26 $ (18 ) % increase (decrease) 3 % (15 )% Internal sales growth 3 % Acquisition sales growth Internal growth contributed the entire sales increase in 2005, with inflation more than offsetting lower unit volumes. During the first half of 2005, sales increased over last year due to price increases (for the pass through of higher steel costs) implemented in the latter part of 2004. In the last half of 2005, declining steel costs (which were also passed through to our customers) resulted in deflation. When combined, these price related factors led to higher full year sales. Unit volumes declined for the year primarily due to weaker bedding demand (which impacts our wire operations) and lower production levels in the automotive industry (which impacts our tubing businesses). As bedding demand improved late in the year, unit volumes in this segment increased slightly. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 due to several factors including: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($4 million) Higher energy and transportation costs Increased workers compensation expense ($3 million) Unit volume declines, which resulted in lower utilization rates and reduced overhead absorption 33 Table of Contents SPECIALIZED PRODUCTS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 579 $ 34 5.8 % Year ended December 31, 2004 564 51 9.0 % Increase (decrease) $ 15 $ (17 ) % increase (decrease) 3 % (34 )% Internal sales growth (3 )% Acquisition sales growth 6 % In 2005, a decline in internal sales was more than offset by acquisition growth. Volume decreased in our automotive and machinery businesses. Lower production levels in the automotive industry during 2005 led to reduced volume in our businesses that supply that industry. In addition, bedding manufacturers (the primary customers of our machinery business) reduced their capital spending in 2005 due to lower market demand for bedding throughout most of the year. This restricted spending impacted our machinery volume during the year. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 primarily due to: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($8 million) Unit volume declines, which resulted in lower utilization rates and reduced overhead absorption Currency impacts (approximately $3 million) Higher workers compensation expense ($2 million) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2004 vs. 2003 Sales in 2004 exceeded our prior record (posted in 2003) by 16% and earnings increased substantially. Margins also improved for the full year. We were challenged during the year by rapidly escalating steel costs, but we were successful in recovering most of the higher costs through selling price increases. Our steel rod mill operated at full capacity for the year and brought significant earnings benefits. Improved performance of our Fixture & Display operations also contributed to our earnings growth. Further details about these items and our consolidated and segment results are discussed below. 34 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED RESULTS The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from 2003 to 2004 and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes: Amount % (Dollar amountsin millions, exceptper share data) Net sales: Year ended December 31, 2003 $ 4,388 Acquisition sales growth 189 4.3 % Internal sales growth 509 11.6 % Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 5,086 15.9 % Net earnings: Year ended December 31, 2003 $ 206 Increased sales, operating improvements, and other 71 Gains from asset sales 9 Lower inventory obsolescence 6 Lower tax rate 9 Weaker U.S. dollar (11 ) Higher restructuring costs (5 ) Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 285 Earnings Per Share December 31, 2003 $ 1.05 Earnings Per Share December 31, 2004 $ 1.45 Sales in 2004 increased 16% over 2003 levels. Internal sales growth (i.e. excluding acquisitions and divestitures) resulted from the combined effect of inflation, higher unit volumes, and currency rate changes. Approximately two thirds of the internal sales growth came from inflation we raised prices to pass along higher raw material costs. Unit volumes improved in many businesses, but were strongest in upholstered furniture components, carpet underlay, aluminum components, and machinery. For the year, world wide bedding units were roughly flat. Volume declined slightly in our Fixture & Display operations. Foreign currency rate changes also added to internal sales growth, but to a much lesser extent than inflation and unit volume gains. Rising steel costs were our largest challenge in 2004. We purchase roughly 1.3 million tons of steel each year, accounting for about 17% of our cost of goods sold. During 2004, prices increased significantly, and for the year we paid over $200 million more for steel than in 2003. Due to the magnitude of these increases, we were compelled to pass along our higher costs. We experienced inflation in other raw materials during 2004. Chemical, fiber, and resin costs increased as oil prices rose. Aluminum costs also increased, but our earnings exposure to this commodity is currently limited by the pricing arrangements we have with our customers. Net earnings and earnings per share also increased versus 2003 with several factors contributing to the improvement: Sales increase: Internal sales growth was the primary factor behind 2004s earnings improvement. Higher unit volumes led to improved overhead absorption in many of our businesses. In addition, prior years plant consolidations and cost cutting helped lower our fixed costs and allowed us to utilize capacity more efficiently as volume increased. Selling and administrative expenses increased at a slower rate than sales, also benefiting 2004 earnings. 35 Table of Contents Gains from our steel rod mill: Earnings benefited in 2004 from full production at our steel rod mill. Operating efficiency improved significantly year over year since we were ramping up production in 2003. In addition, we benefited from an above average market spread between scrap costs and rod selling prices. Improvements in our Fixture & Display operations: Steps taken under the 2003 Fixture & Display tactical plan contributed to the earnings growth we saw in 2004. Earnings also benefited from gains related to the sale of buildings, lower inventory obsolescence, and a lower income tax rate. The income tax rate fell from 34.7% in 2003 to 32.5% in 2004, due to our mix of domestic and foreign income and certain one time factors. These benefits were partially offset by impacts from a weaker U.S. dollar and slightly higher costs associated with plant closings and consolidations. The U.S. dollar weakened in 2004, causing margin declines in our Canadian operations (that sell in U.S. dollars but incur their costs in Canadian dollars). RESIDENTIAL FURNISHINGS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 2,482 $ 265 10.7 % Year ended December 31, 2003 2,186 209 9.5 % Increase (decrease) $ 295 $ 57 % increase (decrease) 14 % 27 % Internal sales growth 11 % Acquisition sales growth 3 % Sales in Residential Furnishings increased in 2004, with more than half the internal growth coming from inflation. Unit volumes gains were strongest in upholstered furniture components and carpet underlay, but these improvements were mitigated slightly by approximately flat world wide bedding demand. In 2004, we posted double digit, world wide unit sales growth in mechanisms for upholstered furniture. We benefited from market share gains (as our customers gain share), an industry trend to incorporate motion components into more lines of upholstered furniture, and a well established international presence. World wide demand for bedding components was strong in early 2004, but moderated in the second and third quarters, and declined in the fourth quarter (primarily from weakness in the U.S. market). We believe that reduced advertising expenditures by bedding manufacturers during the fourth quarter led to less promotion by retailers and, in turn, lower demand for bedding. In early 2005, most bedding manufacturers implemented price increases to recover the higher costs they were absorbing late in 2004. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) also increased versus 2003 and EBIT margins improved. Gains came from: Sales growth, which resulted in higher utilization rates and improved overhead absorption in certain businesses Prior cost reduction and plant consolidation efforts Selling price increases, primarily to recover escalating steel costs Gains related to the sale of buildings no longer used in operations ($7 million) These improvements were partially offset by higher raw material costs, the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar primarily versus the Canadian dollar (approximately $9 million), and modest charges associated with plant closings and consolidations ($4 million). 36 Table of Contents COMMERCIAL FIXTURING & COMPONENTS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 1,078 $ 55 5.1 % Year ended December 31, 2003 965 27 2.8 % Increase (decrease) $ 113 $ 28 % increase (decrease) 12 % 106 % Internal sales growth 2 % Acquisition sales growth 10 % For the full year 2004, acquisitions accounted for the bulk of the sales increase. Internal sales growth came from inflation, but was partially offset by a 2% decline in unit volumes. Slight unit declines in our Fixture & Display operations were partially offset by mid single digit unit growth in our office furniture components businesses. Weak demand for store fixtures reflected the continued reluctance on the part of many retailers to increase spending for construction of new stores and renovation of existing stores. The gains in office furniture components volume continued a trend of stable to improving market conditions. EBIT increased and EBIT margins improved versus 2003 primarily due to: Benefits from the 2003 Fixture & Display tactical plan, including cost savings and improved operational efficiency Non recurrence of 2003s inventory write downs Higher sales in our office furniture components businesses Gains related to the sale of buildings no longer used in operations ($3 million) These items were partially offset by higher raw material costs, currency rate impacts (approximately $4 million), and modest restructuring charges ($3 million). ALUMINUM PRODUCTS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 522 $ 46 8.7 % Year ended December 31, 2003 467 36 7.6 % Increase (decrease) $ 55 $ 10 % increase (decrease) 12 % 28 % Internal sales growth 12 % Acquisition sales growth Higher unit volumes contributed about three quarters of the 2004 internal sales improvement. This growth reflected new programs for producers of motorcycles, small engines, large appliances, and others. EBIT and EBIT margins also increased versus 2003. Earnings gains from higher sales were partially offset by inflation in aluminum costs. 37 Table of Contents INDUSTRIAL MATERIALS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 818 $ 122 14.9 % Year ended December 31, 2003 579 38 6.5 % Increase (decrease) $ 239 $ 84 % increase (decrease) 41 % 222 % Internal sales growth 41 % Acquisition sales growth The 2004 sales increase was almost entirely due to inflation, which resulted from the pass through of higher steel costs. Unit volumes were up modestly in the first three quarters but declined in the fourth quarter due to weaker bedding demand. For the full year, unit volume was essentially flat. EBIT and EBIT margins increased significantly versus 2003 levels. Earnings benefited from higher sales, full utilization of our steel rod mill, and an above average market spread between scrap costs and selling prices for rod (this spread benefited our rod mill). SPECIALIZED PRODUCTS Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 564 $ 51 9.0 % Year ended December 31, 2003 486 52 10.8 % Increase (decrease) $ 77 $ (2 ) % increase (decrease) 16 % (3 )% Internal sales growth 9 % Acquisition sales growth 7 % Higher unit volumes and changes in currency rates each contributed about half of 2004s internal sales growth. Our machinery operations posted double digit gains for the full year, as bedding manufacturers increased spending on new equipment. In addition, we saw modest growth in our automotive businesses, reflecting benefits of new programs and increased product placement. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2003. The earnings decline resulted from: Currency impacts (approximately $2 million) In certain automotive operations, we incur costs in Canadian dollars and sell products in U.S. dollars. The weaker U.S. dollar caused margin declines in these operations. Higher raw material costs Due to the longer term supply contracts we have with many automotive customers, we experienced lags in recovering higher steel costs. Other factors, including higher depreciation ($2 million), costs associated with plant closings and consolidations ($1 million), and new product development costs. These declines were partially offset by gains from higher sales. 38 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details about our Uses of cash Cash from operations Debt position and total capitalization Our priorities for use of cash, in order of importance, are: Finance internal growth and acquisitions Pay dividends and extend our record of annual increases Repurchase our stock Our operations provide much of the cash required to fund these priorities. In 2005, we also increased net debt and used excess cash to fund a portion of these items, including higher levels of acquisitions and share repurchases. Our long term goal is to have net debt as a percent of net capital in the 30% 40% range while maintaining our longstanding single A debt rating. At the end of 2005, we were approaching the lower end of that range. Uses of Cash Finance Growth We use cash to fund growth, both internally through capital expenditures and externally through acquisitions. Capital expenditures are investments we make to modernize, maintain, and expand manufacturing capacity. We expect 2006 capital spending to be at about the same level as 2005. 39 Table of Contents Acquisitions add to our business by expanding our markets, product lines, or manufacturing capabilities. Our level of spending increased in 2005 as we were able to complete several acquisitions (including the third largest in our history). In addition to the initial cash outlays for acquisitions (shown in the accompanying chart), we also assumed debt of $5 million, $2 million, and $35 million in our 2003, 2004 and 2005 transactions. Our 2005 acquisitions (12 companies in three of our business segments) should contribute about $320 million in annual revenues. Residential Furnishings: We added sales of about $170 million from 10 acquisitions. The largest acquisition in the segment in 2005 was Ikex/Jarex, the geo components business discussed on page 29. The other acquisitions in the segment: established, early in the year, a small foothold in geo components broadened our product offerings to include all major types of carpet underlay expanded our base of operations producing furniture mechanisms in China added to our businesses that produce and sell bedding components, upholstered furniture components, and top of the bed products Commercial Fixturing & Components: We acquired one company which had been a key supplier to our Fixture & Display operations for many years. This company produces retail store fixtures and gondola shelving. Importantly, it gives us an operating presence in China from which to serve the growing domestic Chinese market. The acquisition expands our manufacturing capacity by $20 million but does not increase our reported sales since nearly all the product is sold to other Leggett operations for distribution in the U.S. Specialized Products: We added sales of about $150 million through the acquisition of Americas Body Company, a manufacturer of van interiors and truck bodies discussed on page 29. We provide additional details about acquisitions in Note B to the financial statements on page 63. 40 Table of Contents Pay Dividends * Actual Dividend Payout annual dividend rate &divide; average EPS for prior three years In 2005, we increased our annual dividend for the 34th consecutive year. Over the last three years, dividends have grown at an 8% compound annual rate. Our long term target for dividend payout is approximately one third of the prior three years average earnings. Weve been well above those levels in recent years, but as earnings grow, we expect to move back toward that target. Repurchase Stock In 2005, we purchased 10.3 million of our shares, considerably more than in any previous year. This was an opportunistic move that was driven by two main factors: 1) additional cash was available as we increased net debt, and 2) a lower stock price in the last few months of the year presented an attractive buying opportunity. Almost six million shares were purchased during a nine week period in the third and fourth quarters, at an average price of about $20.25 per share. Share repurchases should be lower in 2006 (versus 2005), in part because we do not expect as large an increase in our net debt levels. As we first mentioned in September 2004, we planned to increase our net debt levels toward the lower end of our targeted range and use the cash to fund growth, pay dividends, and repurchase shares. Going forward, the cash available to repurchase shares will fluctuate each year with earnings, capital spending, and the pace of acquisitions. At a minimum we typically repurchase shares to replace those issued for employee stock plans (approximately two million shares each year). Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have been authorized by the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 10 million shares in 2006. 41 Table of Contents Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Changes in earnings and working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. Cash from operations in 2005 was 32% higher than in 2004 despite lower earnings. Working capital decreased in 2005 due to two main factors: Accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased primarily from higher workers compensation accruals and restructuring liabilities. This impact was partially offset by higher inventories. Inventories increased primarily due to inflation in certain raw material costs, increased purchases in anticipation of rising costs, and new programs in certain businesses. Working capital management remains a priority and we expect to further improve these levels in 2006. In 2004, cash from operations benefited from stronger earnings, but was reduced overall by an increase in working capital. The higher working capital levels were primarily the result of inflation. In 2003, cash from operations was relatively strong despite weak earnings, in part due to our ability to reduce working capital. Working capital levels vary by segment, with the requirements of Aluminum Products and Commercial Fixturing & Components generally higher than company averages. Accounts receivable balances in these segments are typically higher due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Aluminum Die Casting and Fixture & Display businesses. These same businesses also require higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of their products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. 42 Table of Contents Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. 2005 2004 2003 (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 922 $ 779 $ 1,012 Average interest rates 5.0 % 4.1 % 4.1 % Average maturities in years 7.8 5.6 6.0 Revolving credit/commercial paper Total long term debt 922 779 1,012 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 144 145 138 Shareholders equity 2,249 2,313 2,114 Total capitalization* $ 3,315 $ 3,237 $ 3,264 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 400 $ 342 $ 213 Short term 127 Total unused committed credit $ 400 $ 342 $ 340 Current maturities of long term debt $ 99 $ 401 $ 119 Cash and cash equivalents $ 65 $ 491 $ 444 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges ** 6.7x 8.0x 6.2x * Our calculation of total capitalization, may be different from similarly titled measures of other companies. ** Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, and implied interest included in operating leases. The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2005 and 2004. We show this calculation in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows more meaningful comparison to recent historical periods, during which cash has ranged from $65 million to $491 million. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts inmillions) Long term debt $ 922 $ 779 Current debt maturities 99 401 Cash and cash equivalents (65 ) (491 ) Net debt $ 956 $ 689 Total capitalization $ 3,315 $ 3,237 Current debt maturities 99 401 Cash and cash equivalents (65 ) (491 ) Net capitalization $ 3,349 $ 3,147 Long term debt to total capitalization 27.8 % 24.1 % Net debt to net capitalization 28.5 % 21.9 % 43 Table of Contents Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) decreased $161 million in 2005. During the year we repaid $433 million of debt that came due, and added $272 million, including $200 million of 10 year notes at a 5.0% coupon rate. Since 2003, weve issued $730 million of fixed rate debt with an average remaining life at the end of 2005 of 9.5 years, and a weighted average coupon rate of 4.7%. To further facilitate the issuance of debt and other securities, $300 million remains available under a shelf registration. In addition to issuing long term notes, we can also raise cash by issuing up to $400 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $400 million, five year revolving credit commitment. We expect any commercial paper issued under this agreement to be classified as long term debt since we intend to maintain or increase the balance until it is replaced with long term notes. At year end, no commercial paper was outstanding. With both the shelf registration and the commercial paper program in place, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations and take advantage of growth opportunities. Most of our debt has fixed repayment dates. At the end of 2005, this debt consisted primarily of term notes. Our term notes and public debt currently carries a Moodys rating of A2 and a Standard & Poors rating of A+. Our commercial paper program carries a Moodys rating of P 1 and a Standard & Poors rating of A 1. We have maintained a single A rating on our debt for over a decade. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual obligations and commitments: Total Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt* $ 999 $ 85 $ 114 $ 43 $ 757 Capitalized leases 21 14 4 2 1 Operating leases 161 50 61 34 16 Purchase obligations** 463 463 Interest payments*** 376 48 84 73 171 Deferred income taxes 59 59 Other obligations (including pension) 85 5 9 8 63 Total contractual cash obligations $ 2,164 $ 665 $ 272 $ 160 $ 1,067 * The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. ** Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. *** Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2005 at rates in effect at the end of the year. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosures. We periodically evaluate these estimates and judgments using historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Different amounts could have been reported if we had used different 44 Table of Contents assumptions. Actual amounts may differ from the estimates and judgments reflected in our financial statements and future changes to these estimates could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We consider accounting estimates to be critical if the estimates require us to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain, and if different estimates (that management could have reasonably used in the current period) or changes in the estimates (that are reasonably likely to occur) could materially impact the financial statements. The judgments and estimates we make which we believe could have a significant effect on our financial statements are discussed below. Critical judgments and estimates impacting our ongoing results relate to: Asset and goodwill impairment Inventory reserves Workers compensation, general liability and employee benefit programs Credit losses Pension accounting Income taxes Contingencies, including litigation More information regarding our significant accounting policies can be found in Note A to the financial statements on page 60. Asset and Goodwill Impairment Long lived assets (primarily fixed assets and amortizable intangible assets) are tested annually and whenever there are indications that the book value of an asset may exceed the expected future cash flows from the use of the asset. In performing these tests, we must make judgments and estimates about the future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets and their fair market values. If actual future cash flows are less than our estimates, or our estimates change, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business combinations. We assess goodwill of each of our reporting units for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events and circumstances warrant. Our reporting units for goodwill purposes are one level below our operating segments and are the same as the Groups disclosed in Item 1. Business of this report. We estimate the fair market values of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow model. Key assumptions and estimates used in the cash flow model include discount rate, internal sales growth, margins, capital expenditure requirements, and working capital requirements. Recent performance of the reporting unit is an important factor (but not the only factor) in our assessment. Fair market values calculated for each reporting unit may go up or down each year based on a re evaluation of the key assumptions. To date, none of our assessments has determined a goodwill impairment for any of our reporting units. The excess, as a percent, of fair value over net carrying value for each of our reporting units as of June 30, 2005 (our annual testing date) ranged from approximately 50% to 300%, with an overall average of 136%. The total carrying value of goodwill as of December 31, 2005, was $1.1 billion. One of our reporting units, the Fixture & Display group, has experienced deterioration in profitability in recent years compared to historical levels. If profitability does not continue to improve, there may be a future goodwill impairment in this reporting unit. About $300 million of goodwill is associated with these operations. 45 Table of Contents Inventory We value our inventory at the lower of cost or fair market value by maintaining reserves for slow moving and obsolete items. These reserves are based on turnover ratios (calculated by item) that reflect historical customer demand. Inventory with no activity (i.e. that has not been used or sold) in the previous 12 months are generally reserved at 100%, while active items with quantities exceeding 12 months usage are reserved at net realizable value. Obsolete and slow moving inventory reserves totaled $49 million as of December 31, 2005, or approximately 6% of total inventory valued on a FIFO basis. Workers Compensation, General Liability and Employee Benefit Programs We are self insured for certain losses related to workers compensation, automobile, product and general liability, property, and medical insurance. Our self insurance deductibles range from $1 million to $5 million per occurrence. Workers compensation losses in excess of self insured levels are fully insured by third parties. Losses in excess of self insured levels for automobile, product, and general liability are insured up to an aggregate annual maximum of $75 million, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. When estimating our self insurance liabilities we consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and valuations provided by independent, third party actuaries. Our self insurance liabilities include estimates for both reported claims and for claims incurred but not yet reported. These estimates are subject to change from period to period if claim patterns differ from historical trends. Changes can have a material affect on our results of operations. The average variation in the estimated yearly ultimate losses for workers compensation and general liability claims over the past five years has been approximately $5 million or 20%. A 20% change in our estimated self insurance liabilities at December 31, 2005, would have affected pre tax earnings for the year by approximately $13 million. Credit Losses Our customers are diverse. Many are small to medium sized companies, and some are highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning, particularly in a changing economic environment. We regularly evaluate the collectibility of our accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. Significant customer accounts are evaluated individually. When we become aware of a specific customers inability to meet its financial obligations to us (such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing or deterioration in the customers operating results or financial position) we record a bad debt reserve to reflect the amount we reasonably believe is uncollectible. For smaller customers, we record bad debt reserves based on a variety of factors, including the length of time the receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical experience. The total amount of credit losses over the last three years is $20 million. At December 31, 2005, our reserves totaled $21 million against total consolidated accounts and other receivables of $868 million. In our year end evaluation, we identified $32 million in receivables considered to be less than fully collectible. Of the total reserved amount, $14 million relates to these accounts. Pension Accounting Accounting for our pension and postretirement benefit plans requires us to estimate the cost of benefits to be provided well into the future and the current value of our benefit obligations. The two most critical assumptions affecting these estimates are the discount rate and the expected return on assets. Other assumptions include rates of future compensation increases, participant withdrawal and mortality rates, and participant retirement ages. These estimates and assumptions impact the amount of net pension expense or income we recognize each year and the measurement of our reported benefit obligations under the plans. We use a September 30 measurement date for the majority of our plans. 46 Table of Contents To reflect market interest rates, in 2005 we reduced the discount rate for our major pension plans to 5.5% from the 6.0% which had been used in 2004 and 2003. We continued to assume long term returns of 8.0% on the assets of these plans, the same as our assumptions for 2004 and 2003 and consistent with our experience over the past 10 years. Plan assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity, debt, and government securities. While we have historically targeted a weighted average portfolio of 70% equities and 30% bonds, the portfolio mix at year end (as well as the target going forward) was 75% equities and 25% bonds. Sensitivity to changes in the critical assumptions for our major plans is as follows: Discount rate a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase pension expense in 2006 by approximately $.7 million and decrease the plans funded status by approximately $5.3 million. Expected return on assets a 50 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense in 2006 by $.9 million but have no effect on the plans funded status. The total of the unrecognized net actuarial losses of our major plans was $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. These losses are primarily the result of decreases in the discount rate since the implementation (in 1987) of the pension accounting rules established by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87. In 2006 net pension expense will reflect the amortization of approximately $23 million of these losses over an average of approximately 10 years. Approximately $10 million of the current year increase (in the unrecognized net actuarial losses) is due to a change in the life expectancies used in the calculation of the plans projected benefit obligations. The remainder of the increase is primarily due to the current year change in the discount rate from 6.0% to 5.5%. We do not expect any near term significant funding requirements for our major plans. For 2006, we are projecting a $2 million contribution requirement, primarily for our foreign plans. Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, many transactions occur for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. In addition, respective tax authorities periodically audit our income tax returns. These audits examine our significant tax filing positions, including the timing and amounts of deductions and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust our income tax provision in the period in which we determine that the actual outcomes will likely be different from our estimates. As of December 31, 2005, six open years were either undergoing or subject to audit by the United States Internal Revenue Service and Canada Revenue Agency. Audits in both countries for 2000 and 2001 have been settled in all material respects with no significant adjustments. At December 31, 2005 and 2004 we had $38.0 million and $18.5 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. The ultimate realization of these net deferred tax assets is dependent on the amount and source of future taxable income. Valuation reserves are established against future potential tax benefits in order to reflect the amounts that we believe are more likely than not to be realized. In addition, certain assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of such earnings. Finally, income taxes are recorded at the rates in effect in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax law and rate changes are reflected in the income tax provision in the period in which such changes are enacted. Contingencies Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies is based on an assessment of whether the likelihood of loss is remote, reasonably possible, or probable and whether the amount of potential loss can be estimated. Loss contingency assessments involve judgments that are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. Although we believe our assessment of the likelihood of loss contingencies is accurate, the resolution of any contingency is inherently uncertain and our assessment may ultimately prove to be materially incorrect. 47 Table of Contents In 2005, we recorded a deposit receivable of $4.8 million related to an on going international dispute over countervailing duties (CVD) and anti dumping duties (ADD) imposed by the United States on softwood lumber imported from Canada. This deposit receivable is our estimate of refunds due to the Company as a result of this dispute. See Note M to the financial statements on page 81 for further information regarding these actions. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R). SFAS 123R clarifies and expands Statement 123s guidance in several areas, including recognizing share based compensation cost, measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability, and attributing compensation cost to reporting periods. SFAS 123R is effective for Leggett & Platt beginning January 1, 2006, and applies to all awards granted, modified, repurchased or cancelled on or after that date. We adopted, as of January 1, 2003, the provisions of Statement 123 as originally issued and, having evaluated SFAS No. 123R, concluded it will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Staff Positions FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Although we will benefit from qualified production activities deductions provided under the Act, FASB Staff Position 109 1 has not had, nor is it expected to have, a material impact on our financial reporting or disclosures. Regarding FAS 109 2, we did not remit any amounts under the repatriation provision of the American Jobs Creation Act and, therefore, the provisions of this FASB staff position had no impact on our financial reporting or disclosures. In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), which clarifies the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used in FASB No. 143 and requires recognition of a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred, if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 was effective for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which replaces APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, and SFAS No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle and requires retrospective application (a term defined by the statement) to prior periods financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine the effect of a change. It also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement that does not include specific transition provisions. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We will adopt SFAS No. 154 as of January 1, 2006, and do not expect its adoption will have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) INTEREST RATES The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company has no other significant financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. During 2000, $350 of 7.65% fixed rate debt maturing in February 2005 and, in 1999, $14 of 6.90% fixed rate debt 48 Table of Contents maturing in June 2004 were issued and converted to variable rate debt by use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements, which contained the same payment dates as the original issues, were used primarily by the Company to manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio. In March 2003, the Company sold its rights under the $350 interest rate swap agreement for $39.9. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars. The fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $23.5 at December 31, 2005, and greater than its carrying value by $6.6 at December 31, 2004. The fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using the U.S. Treasury Bond rate as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs under its medium term note program. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Long term debt as of December 31, Scheduled Maturity Date 2005 2004 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Principal fixed rate debt $ 75.0 $ 25.0 $ 71.5 $ 15.0 $ 0.0 $ 735.2 $ 921.7 $ 1,096.7 Average interest rate 7.12 % 7.40 % 6.31 % 7.26 % 0.00 % 4.74 % 5.17 % 4.22 % Principal variable rate debt 3.3 9.1 9.0 9.0 19.2 22.5 72.1 35.5 Average interest rate 2.77 % 2.96 % 2.74 % 2.74 % 3.01 % 3.56 % 3.10 % 1.80 % Miscellaneous debt 26.4 48.5 Total debt 1,020.2 1,180.7 Less: current maturities (98.6 ) (401.3 ) Total long term debt $ 921.6 $ 779.4 EXCHANGE RATES The Company does not hedge all net foreign currency exposures related to transactions denominated in other than its associated functional currencies. The Company may occasionally hedge firm specific commitments or other anticipated foreign currency cash flows. The decision by management to hedge any such transactions is made on a case by case basis. The amount of forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2005 was approximately $15.9 (Pay USD/Receive MXN). The highest amount during 2005 was approximately $168.2 ($95.0 Pay EUR/Receive USD; $52.5 Pay USD/Receive EUR; $19.3 Pay USD/Receive MXN; $1.4 Pay GBP/Receive USD). In 2005, these contracts were primarily used to hedge known Euro denominated purchases and receivables, about 70% of expected Mexican peso needs, and known British pound receivables. The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment, and, except for the cross currency swap agreement disclosed below, does not hedge translation exposures. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation exposure at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2005 2004 Canadian Dollar $ 311.2 $ 280.9 European Currencies 270.0 344.5 Mexican Peso 80.0 56.7 Chinese Renminbi 79.1 38.2 Other 40.5 37.3 Total $ 780.8 $ 757.6 CROSS CURRENCY SWAP AGREEMENT In December 2003, the Company entered into a 38.3 million Swiss Francs (CHF) five year cross currency rate swap agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A. This agreement is designated as a net investment hedge. The 49 Table of Contents purpose of this swap is to hedge CHF denominated assets, thereby reducing exposure to volatility in the exchange rate. In addition, the terms of this agreement include that the Company will receive interest on $30 USD at a fixed rate of 6.35% and pay interest on 38.3 million CHF at a fixed rate of 4.71%. During 2005, the Company paid interest of $1.4 on the CHF portion and received interest of $1.9 on the USD portion of the agreement. At December 31, 2005, the market value loss on the cross currency swap was approximately $.2. COMMODITY PRICES Other than for planned purchases of natural gas, the Company does not generally use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposures to changes in commodity prices. At December 31, 2005, approximately $13.0 of natural gas forward contracts were outstanding at an average price of $7.47 per mmbtu, of which the contracts hedging January and February 2006 usage totaled approximately $3.1. At December 31, 2005, the total unrealized gain recorded in other comprehensive income on natural gas contracts was approximately $3.5, net of tax. Subsequent to year end, the Company entered into an additional $22.0 of natural gas forward contracts at an average price of $9.19 per mmbtu. At February 28, 2006, the Company had contracts in place hedging approximately 75% of its anticipated natural gas consumption for March 2006, approximately 65% of its anticipated monthly consumption for the 6 month period beginning April 2006, approximately 50% of its anticipated monthly consumption for the 3 month period beginning October 2006, approximately 20% of its anticipated monthly consumption for 2007, and approximately 5 15% of its anticipated monthly consumption for 2008. Contracts in place at February 28, 2006 totaled $31.9 at an average price of $8.40 per mmbtu. 
 
