Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. 2006 HIGHLIGHTS We posted record sales and earnings in 2006. Sales increased primarily from acquisitions. Inflation, offset by unit volume declines in certain businesses, resulted in modest internal sales growth. Full year earnings benefited from the net impact of several unusual items. The restructuring plan launched in the third quarter of 2005 was completed in 2006. We began realizing the anticipated earnings benefits in the last half of 2006, and should see the full impact in 2007 and subsequent years. Our use of cash in 2006 was consistent with our stated priorities: We funded capital expenditures at levels in line with those of 2005. We spent $83 million on acquisitions. We raised our dividend for the 35th consecutive year. As planned, excess cash (after funding growth and dividends) was used for share repurchases. Cash from operations, our primary source of funds, increased versus 2005. In addition, our debt remained slightly below the lower end of our long term, targeted range. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. INTRODUCTION What We Do Leggett & Platt is a FORTUNE 500 diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs, and produces a wide range of engineered components and products found in many homes, retail stores, offices, and automobiles. We make components that are often hidden within, but integral to, our customers products. 24 Table of Contents We are North Americas leading independent manufacturer of: components for residential furniture and bedding, adjustable beds, carpet underlay, retail store fixtures and point of purchase displays, components for office furniture, non automotive aluminum die castings, drawn steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and machinery used by the bedding industry for wire forming, sewing, and quilting. Our Segments Our 124 year old company is composed of 29 business units under five reportable segments, with approximately 33,000 employee partners, and more than 300 facilities located in over 20 countries around the world. Our five segments are Residential Furnishings, Commercial Fixturing & Components, Aluminum Products, Industrial Materials, and Specialized Products. Residential Furnishings This segment supplies a variety of components mainly used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. We also sell adjustable beds, bed frames, ornamental beds, carpet cushion, geo components (includes synthetic fabrics and various other products used in ground stabilization, drainage protection, and erosion and weed control, as well as silt fencing, chemicals, seed, and fertilizer), and other finished products. Commercial Fixturing & Components Operations in this segment produce: a) store fixtures, point of purchase displays, and storage products used by retailers; b) chair controls, bases, and other components for office furniture manufacturers; and c) injection molded plastic components used in a variety of end products. Aluminum Products This segment provides die cast aluminum components for customers that manufacture many products including motorcycles, diesel and small engines, outdoor lighting fixtures, appliances, power tools, and consumer electronics. 25 Table of Contents Industrial Materials These operations primarily supply steel rod, drawn steel wire, and welded steel tubing to other Leggett operations and to external customers. Our wire and tubing is used to make bedding, furniture, automotive seats, retail store fixtures and displays, mechanical springs, and many other end products. Specialized Products From this segment we supply lumbar systems and wire components used by automotive seating manufacturers. We design, produce, and sell van interiors (the racks, shelving, and cabinets installed in service vans) and truck bodies (for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks, and dump trucks) used in light to medium duty commercial trucks. We also design and produce machinery, both for our own use and for others, including bedding manufacturers. Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with no single one representing even 5% of our sales. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture and bedding, a variety of other manufacturers, and many major retailers. We primarily sell our products through our own sales employees, although we also use independent sales representatives and distributors in some of our businesses. Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are: market demand for our products, raw material cost trends, energy costs, and competition. Market Demand Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Despite generally favorable economic conditions in recent years, demand in some of our markets has been weak. In 2006, a decrease in bedding market demand led to lower volume in our businesses serving that industry. In addition, North American automotive production declined in 2006, and this also had an adverse affect on some of our operations. Raw Material Costs In many of our businesses, we enjoy a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that many of our competitors do not have. Still, our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. Purchasing arrangements vary considerably across the company. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly our raw material costs generally move with the market. In certain of our businesses, we have longer term purchase contracts with pricing terms that provide stability under reasonable market conditions. However, when commodities experience extreme inflation, vendors do not always honor those contracts. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. We have few long term, fixed pricing contracts with customers. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we 26 Table of Contents typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Although we are generally able to pass through most cost increases, we encounter greater difficulty (i) in businesses where we have a smaller market share, and (ii) in products that are of a commodity nature. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can impact our earnings. Steel is our most significant raw material. During 2004, the price of certain types of steel nearly doubled, but we were able to recover most of these higher costs through selling price increases. Steel costs were more stable (at high levels) in 2005 and 2006, although there were some quarter to quarter fluctuations in those years. Unusual market conditions in 2004 and early 2005 resulted in unsustainably high profit margins on our steel rod production. In 2006, the market began returning to more normal levels. In 2005, we experienced significant inflation in chemicals, fibers, and resins (generally driven by changes in oil prices). These costs remained relatively flat (at high levels) in 2006, and the majority of the 2005 cost increases are now reflected in our selling prices. In addition to steel and oil based materials, we also use significant amounts of aluminum, but we are generally less exposed to cost changes in this commodity because of the pricing arrangements we have with our customers. When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We experienced this de contenting effect during 2005 and 2006, as our customers changed the quantity and mix of components in their finished goods to address the significant steel and chemical inflation from recent years. Our profit margins were negatively impacted as a result of this de contenting. Energy Costs Higher prices for natural gas, electricity, and fuel increase our production and delivery costs. Many of our large manufacturing operations are heavy users of natural gas and electricity. Our ability to respond to these cost increases by raising selling prices affects our operating results. We continuously monitor natural gas price trends and have locked in prices on a portion of our natural gas requirements for the next three years. The details of those arrangements are discussed in Note P to the financial statements on page 92. Higher energy prices can also impact consumer demand in certain markets. As consumers pay more for fuel and utilities, they have less disposable income to purchase products that contain our components. We believe consumers purchased fewer mattresses during 2006 in part due to the impact higher energy prices had on disposable income. Competition Many of our markets are highly competitive, with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. We believe we gain competitive advantage in our global markets through low cost operations, significant internal production of key raw materials, superior manufacturing expertise and product innovation, higher quality products, extensive customer service capabilities, long lived relationships with customers, and greater financial strength. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering product quality, innovation, and customer service. We face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. When prices for key materials (such as steel, aluminum, and 27 Table of Contents chemicals) are comparable throughout the world, it is generally cheaper to produce our components in the U.S. because of our products low labor content. However, in instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. Accordingly, at the end of 2006, Leggett operated 12 facilities in China. In recent years, we have experienced increased price competition in the U.S. from Chinese bedding component manufacturers. This has primarily occurred with lower end commodity products in geographic markets easily served by major ocean ports. We reacted to this competition in 2006 by selectively adjusting prices, and also by developing new proprietary products that help reduce our customers total costs. The increased price competition for bedding components is partially due to lower wire costs in China. Asian manufacturers currently benefit from lower costs for commodities such as steel and chemicals. We believe these commodities are subsidized at times by Asian governments. When there is a cost imbalance in global commodities, this can impact pricing and demand for our products. Asian manufacturers also benefit from lenient attitudes toward safety and environmental matters, as well as currency rates that are pegged to the U.S. dollar rather than free floating. However, when exporting to the U.S., they must overcome higher transportation costs, increased working capital needs, and difficulty matching U.S. manufacturers levels of service, flexibility, and logistics. Restructuring and Asset Impairments In the third quarter of 2005, we launched a significant broad based restructuring project to reduce excess capacity and improve performance in a number of our businesses. That restructuring was completed in 2006 (except for some remaining asset sales). As part of the restructuring plan, we identified 36 underutilized or underperforming facilities that were subsequently closed, consolidated, or sold (the 2005 Closure and Consolidation Initiative). We also took a more critical look at other underperforming operations; as a result, we modified or accelerated restructuring activities that were previously underway, and identified other operations with impaired assets. Net costs associated with all 2005 and 2006 restructuring related activities were approximately $67 million, of which $55 million were recognized in 2005 and $12 million were recognized in 2006. These charges include 28 Table of Contents the cost of plant closures (building cleanup and repair), equipment relocation, employee severance pay, asset impairment, inventory obsolescence, and similar items, partially offset by gains from asset sales. Of these net costs, about two thirds were non cash items. We estimate future gains from asset sales in the range of $10 million to $20 million, but the timing of these gains is uncertain and actual amounts could fall outside this estimated range. Of the 36 facilities under the Closure and Consolidation Initiative, about half were in Residential Furnishings, one quarter were in Commercial Fixturing & Components, and the remainder were in Industrial Materials and Specialized Products. These operations had total revenue of roughly $400 million per year. Most of this volume shifted to other facilities, but as anticipated, we reduced sales by $92 million per year as we divested small, non core operations and walked away from unprofitable business. The majority of this volume reduction occurred in the Residential and Commercial segments. We expect an ongoing annual pre tax earnings benefit from the restructuring plan of approximately $30 $35 million. We realized about half of these benefits in 2006, and should see the full impact in 2007 and subsequent years. The benefits result primarily from the elimination of fixed costs associated with closed facilities, and a reduction in the number of employees. We provide additional details about restructuring and asset impairment in Note N to the financial statements on page 89. Fixture & Display Performance Sales volume in our Fixture & Display business declined slightly in 2006. While overall demand in this business has been difficult to predict, we are not expecting a significant near term change in the market. Although we are realizing the expected restructuring benefits, margins for this business are still not at desired levels. Efforts to improve performance are continuing on a number of fronts. We are implementing certain production process improvements, and are evaluating others aimed at reducing operating costs and increasing speed to market. We expect our renewed emphasis on innovation and product development to result in new product introductions that will allow us to expand our customer base, as well as increase sales to existing customers. In addition, we are continuing our efforts to maximize capacity utilization and will consolidate or close additional operations if necessary. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2006 vs. 2005 During 2006, we attained record sales and earnings. Sales grew 4% for the year, primarily from acquisitions. Earnings increased due to several factors, including lower restructuring related expenses, absence of 2005s higher workers compensation costs, and reimbursement of Canadian lumber duties. We also realized benefits from the restructuring, as expected, in the later part of the year. Further details about these items and our consolidated and segment results are discussed below. 29 Table of Contents Consolidated Results The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from 2005 to 2006, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes: Amount % (Dollar amountsin millions,except pershare data) Net sales: Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 5,299 Acquisition sales growth 279 5.3 % Restructuring related closures & divestitures (92 ) (1.7 )% Internal sales growth 19 0.3 % Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 5,505 3.9 % Net earnings: Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 251 Lower restructuring related charges 29 Lower workers compensation expense 14 Reimbursement of Canadian Lumber Duty 10 Other offsetting factors including restructuring benefits, income from recent acquisitions, product mix, price competition, and higher interest expense (4 ) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 300 Earnings Per Share December 31, 2005 $ 1.30 Earnings Per Share December 31, 2006 $ 1.61 Acquisitions contributed most of the full year sales gains, but this increase was partially offset by declines, as expected, from restructuring and divestitures. The restructuring related sales decrease occurred as we chose to walk away from business that was marginally profitable, or in some instances, unprofitable. Internal sales (i.e., excluding acquisitions and divestitures) were roughly flat for the year. Lower volume in certain businesses offset inflation related sales growth (from price increases we implemented to recover higher raw material costs). The price increases related primarily to higher costs for chemicals and other oil based raw materials early in the year (versus lower levels in early 2005) and higher aluminum costs. In the North American bedding market, volume was weak for most of the year and softened further beginning in September. Automotive demand, and to a lesser extent, custom store fixture demand was also soft for most of the year. In contrast, our residential furniture components, office furniture components, machinery, and foam businesses performed very well. These trends are discussed in the segment results below. Net earnings and earnings per share increased versus 2005 primarily due to: Lower restructuring related charges: Costs associated with the restructuring plan, discussed on page 89, decreased in 2006. Lower workers compensation expense: In 2005, we significantly increased our reserves for workers compensation to reflect higher costs of medical care and longer durations of claims. Workers compensation costs returned to normal levels in 2006. Reimbursement of Canadian lumber duty: In late 2006, we received a refund of duties that we had paid to the U.S. Customs Department over the previous four years on imports of softwood lumber from Canada. 30 Table of Contents Earnings benefited as expected from restructuring related operating improvements during the last half of 2006. Acquisitions completed over the past several months (including those completed in late 2005) also contributed to the 2006 earnings increase. In addition, a lower share count drove a portion of the increase in earnings per share. These earnings improvements were partially offset by: Product mix: Higher raw material costs in recent years have led some customers to modify their product design and replace higher cost components with lower cost (and lower margin) components. Price competition: In 2006, we experienced price competition in certain markets, and we responded by selectively reducing prices of certain of our products. Higher net interest expense ($5 million) Segment Results In the following section we discuss 2006 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for each of our segments. Reported amounts for 2004 and 2005 in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment and the Specialized Products segment have been restated for an organizational change effective January 1, 2006. This change moved Commercial Vehicle Products operations from Commercial Fixturing & Components to Specialized Products, and also moved a small office components operation from Specialized Products to Commercial Fixturing & Components. We provide additional detail on our restated segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note L to the financial statements on page 83. Residential Furnishings Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 2,768 $ 277 10.0 % Year ended December 31, 2005 2,622 170 6.5 % Increase (decrease) $ 146 $ 107 % increase (decrease) 6 % 63 % Internal sales growth 1 % Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) 5 % Residential Furnishings sales increased in 2006, primarily from acquisitions. Internal sales grew slightly during the year, mainly due to inflation in our foam businesses and unit growth in upholstered furniture components. However, weak demand and price competition in the U.S. bedding market, in addition to de contenting by some of our customers (those who have chosen to replace higher cost components with lower cost components) has offset much of the internal sales gains. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 due to several factors: Lower restructuring related charges, net of gains from asset sales ($16 million) Reimbursement of Canadian lumber duty ($14 million) Lower workers compensation expense ($11 million) Operational benefits from the restructuring Improved market conditions in our foam and fiber businesses Income from recent acquisitions These improvements were partially offset by lower bedding volume, increased price competition, and higher energy and transportation costs. 31 Table of Contents We aggressively protected our bedding market share during 2006 as we dealt with price competition and de contenting by our customers. Product development plays a key role in improving margins and increasing market share in our bedding component business. New product designs for both innersprings and box springs have recently been introduced and are being well received by the market. Commercial Fixturing & Components Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 1,033 $ 64 6.2 % Year ended December 31, 2005 1,069 40 3.7 % Increase (decrease) $ (36 ) $ 24 % increase (decrease) (3 )% 60 % Internal sales growth (2 )% Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) (1 )% Sales decreased in 2006 from a combination of lower unit volume and the impact, as expected, of restructuring activity. Demand for custom fixtures and displays softened in the latter part of the year, but this decrease was partially offset by continued growth in our businesses supplying office furniture components. Despite lower sales, EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 primarily due to: Lower restructuring related charges, net of gains from asset sales ($14 million) Lower workers compensation expense ($5 million) Operational benefits from the restructuring Segment margins improved during 2006, but are still below targeted levels. Further margin gains should come from the restructuring benefits and additional volume, but other operating initiatives (that are underway) should contribute about two thirds of the remaining improvement needed to reach targeted levels. Aluminum Products Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 558 $ 42 7.5 % Year ended December 31, 2005 531 31 5.8 % Increase (decrease) $ 27 $ 11 % increase (decrease) 5 % 35 % Internal sales growth 5 % Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) Sales increased in 2006 solely from internal growth. Inflation was the main driver (we passed through higher raw material costs) but was partially offset by slight declines in unit volumes. Small engine sales were weak during the last half of 2006, in part due to the absence of significant weather events that drive generator and snow blower sales; outdoor grill volume also declined, offsetting gains in several of our other markets during the year. 32 Table of Contents EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 from: Higher sales Benefits from the restructuring and other operational progress over the past year Lower restructuring related costs ($3 million) These benefits were partially offset by start up costs at our new facility in Auburn, Alabama, and higher energy costs. EBIT margins in 2006 were also negatively impacted by the pass through of higher raw material costs with little incremental profit. Industrial Materials Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 751 $ 62 8.2 % Year ended December 31, 2005 844 104 12.3 % Increase (decrease) $ (93 ) $ (42 ) % increase (decrease) (11 )% (40 )% Internal sales growth (10 )% Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) (1 )% Internal sales were down for the year due, in equal parts, to deflation and lower unit volumes. Volume declines resulted from continued weakness in U.S. bedding demand (which impacts our wire operations) and lower production levels in the automotive industry (which impacts our tubing businesses). EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2005 largely from reduced sales, lower profitability at the rod mill, and higher raw material costs. Lower restructuring related expenses ($4 million), lower workers compensation costs ($3 million), and restructuring benefits offset some of this decline. In 2004 and 2005, segment margins were above our long range, targeted levels mainly due to unusual market conditions that resulted in unsustainably high margins on our rod production. In 2006, the market began returning to more normal levels. Specialized Products Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 754 $ 43 5.7 % Year ended December 31, 2005 661 33 4.9 % Increase (decrease) $ 93 $ 10 % increase (decrease) 14 % 30 % Internal sales growth Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) 14 % Sales growth in 2006 resulted entirely from acquisitions completed in late 2005. Internal sales were essentially flat for the year. In our automotive business, market weakness in North America, particularly in larger vehicles that contain more seats with higher end features, has been offset by growth in Asia and Europe. 33 Table of Contents Machinery volume was stronger in 2006, reflecting improved demand for bedding related equipment in certain international markets. In the Commercial Vehicle Products business, demand for fleet van interiors (racks, shelving, and cabinets installed in service vans) grew in 2006, but we experienced market softness for commercial truck equipment (truck bodies for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks, and dump trucks), caused in part by production cuts at the auto and truck manufacturers, and associated shortages of commercial truck chassis. This situation was corrected late in 2006, and truck chassis are now available. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 in part due to: Lower restructuring related costs ($6 million) Earnings from recently acquired companies Lower workers compensation expense ($2 million) Operational benefits from the restructuring Currency factors ($6 million) offset some of these gains. Although segment margins improved this year, they are still below targeted levels in part due to lower volume in North American automotive and portions of the Commercial Vehicle businesses, as well as continued weakness of the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2005 vs. 2004 We achieved record sales in 2005, exceeding the prior year by 4%. Earnings for the year decreased primarily due to restructuring, asset impairment, and inventory obsolescence charges (related to the restructuring plan). Inflation was a challenge during the year, primarily in oil based raw materials, but by year end these higher costs were reflected in our selling prices. Further details about these items and our consolidated and segment results are discussed below. Consolidated Results The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from 2004 to 2005, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes: Amount % (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Net sales: Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 5,086 Acquisition sales growth (net of divestitures) 107 2.1 % Internal sales growth 106 2.1 % Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 5,299 4.2 % Net earnings: Year ended December 31, 2004 $ 285 Restructuring related charges (37 ) Higher workers compensation expense (14 ) Lower tax rate 10 Increased sales and other 7 Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 251 Earnings Per Share December 31, 2004 $ 1.45 Earnings Per Share December 31, 2005 $ 1.30 34 Table of Contents Internal growth and acquisitions each contributed about half the net sales increase. Internal sales growth (i.e., growth excluding acquisitions and divestitures) was mainly due to inflation we implemented price increases to recover higher raw material costs. These increases related primarily to higher costs for steel early in the year (versus lower levels in early 2004), and for chemicals, fibers, and resins throughout 2005. By late 2005, steel costs had declined (versus peak levels in the last half of 2004), and we experienced modest deflation in a few businesses. Unit volumes were mixed across our various markets. For the full year, we posted solid growth in our businesses supplying upholstered furniture components, but these gains were offset by declines in our bedding and automotive businesses. Volume was essentially flat in many of our other markets. These trends are discussed in the segment results which follow. Inflation was a significant challenge again in 2005. The largest impact resulted from higher oil prices, which affect the cost of raw materials such as chemicals, fibers, and resins. Many of these costs rose throughout the year, but the increases accelerated following the 2005 hurricanes. In response, we raised prices to our customers, and by year end, the higher costs were reflected in our selling prices. Net earnings and earnings per share decreased versus 2004 primarily due to: Restructuring related charges: As shown in the previous table, restructuring related charges represent the majority of the decrease in 2005 earnings. These charges include the cost of plant closures, equipment relocation, employee severance pay, asset impairment, inventory obsolescence, and other similar costs associated with the restructuring plan discussed on page 89. Higher workers compensation expense: In 2005, we significantly increased our reserves for workers compensation to reflect higher costs of medical care and longer durations of claims, since more treatment options are available and can continue over longer periods of time. Earnings were also affected by higher energy and transportation costs, and a weaker U.S. dollar (which caused margin declines in our Canadian operations that sell in U.S. dollars but incur costs in Canadian dollars). These declines were partially offset by benefits from sales growth and a tax benefit from a planned foreign entity restructuring and cash repatriation transaction. This transaction generated a net tax benefit of approximately $10 million. Segment Results In the following section, we discuss 2005 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for each of our segments. A reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT is provided in Note L to the financial statements on page 83. All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In 2004, segment margins generally benefited under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs. In 2005, declining steel costs caused margins (mainly in Residential and Industrial) to decrease under this same method. In our consolidated financials, we use the last in, first out (LIFO) method for determining the cost of about half of our inventories. An adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e., outside the segments) to convert the appropriate operations to the LIFO inventory method. 35 Table of Contents Residential Furnishings Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 2,622 $ 170 6.5 % Year ended December 31, 2004 2,482 265 10.7 % Increase (decrease) $ 140 $ (95 ) % increase (decrease) 6 % (36 )% Internal sales growth 3 % Acquisition sales growth 3 % Sales in Residential Furnishings increased in 2005 from a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. Inflation contributed the bulk of the internal sales growth. During the first half of 2005, sales increased over the prior year due to price increases (for the pass through of higher steel costs) implemented in the latter part of 2004. In the last half of 2005, declining steel costs (which were also passed through to our customers) resulted in slight deflation in certain businesses. When combined, these price related factors led to higher full year sales. Unit volume declines and changes in product mix partially offset inflation related sales growth in 2005. Unit volumes were down slightly, with decreases in bedding more than offsetting gains in upholstered furniture components. In addition, inflation in the raw materials used to produce finished bedding and upholstered furniture has, in certain cases, led our customers to change their product design, which has reduced the quantity and changed the mix of components they buy from us. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 due to several factors: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($26 million) Selling price decreases related to lower steel costs We reduced selling prices (to reflect lower steel costs) more quickly than we were able to consume our higher cost inventories. Higher energy and transportation costs Increased workers compensation expense ($11 million) Changes in product mix (i.e., increased sales of lower margin components) Currency impacts (approximately $6 million) In certain operations, we incur costs in Canadian dollars and sell products in U.S. dollars. The weaker U.S. dollar caused margin declines in these operations. Unit volume declines in bedding Inflation in certain raw materials Commercial Fixturing & Components Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amounts in millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 1,069 $ 40 3.7 % Year ended December 31, 2004 995 54 5.4 % Increase (decrease) $ 74 $ (14 ) % increase (decrease) 7 % (26 )% Internal sales growth 6 % Acquisition sales growth 1 % Internal growth accounted for the bulk of the sales increase in 2005. Inflation (primarily related to higher steel costs) and higher unit volumes each contributed about half of the internal sales growth. 36 Table of Contents Our Fixture & Display businesses experienced modest increases in unit volume during the year. We also posted slight unit volume gains in office furniture components, which continued a trend of stable to improving market conditions that began mid year 2003. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 primarily due to: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($13 million) Currency impacts (approximately $6 million) Higher workers compensation expense ($5 million) These items were partially offset by benefits related to slightly higher unit volume and gains from asset sales (approximately $3 million). Aluminum Products Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 531 $ 31 5.8 % Year ended December 31, 2004 522 46 8.7 % Increase (decrease) $ 9 $ (15 ) % increase (decrease) 2 % (33 )% Internal sales growth 2 % Acquisition sales growth Higher sales in 2005 were entirely due to internal growth. Unit volumes were up slightly, but inflation contributed most of the increase as we passed through higher raw material costs. The rate of internal growth in this segment slowed as the year progressed and we reached the one year anniversary of the start up of major new programs from 2004. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 due to: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($3 million) Inefficiencies at some plants primarily (i) losses at a facility that is now closed, and (ii) costs associated with the start up of new programs Higher energy costs A work stoppage at one facility Industrial Materials Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 844 $ 104 12.3 % Year ended December 31, 2004 818 122 14.9 % Increase (decrease) $ 26 $ (18 ) % increase (decrease) 3 % (15 )% Internal sales growth 3 % Acquisition sales growth Internal growth contributed the entire sales increase in 2005, with inflation more than offsetting lower unit volumes. During the first half of 2005, sales increased over last year due to price increases (for the pass through 37 Table of Contents of higher steel costs) implemented in the latter part of 2004. In the last half of 2005, declining steel costs, which were also passed through to our customers, resulted in deflation. When combined, these price related factors led to higher full year sales. Unit volumes declined for the year primarily due to weaker bedding demand (which impacts our wire operations) and lower production levels in the automotive industry (which impacts our tubing businesses). When bedding demand improved late in the year, unit volumes in this segment increased slightly. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 due to several factors, including: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($4 million) Higher energy and transportation costs Increased workers compensation expense ($3 million) Unit volume declines Specialized Products Sales EBIT EBIT Margins (Dollar amountsin millions) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 661 $ 33 4.9 % Year ended December 31, 2004 651 52 8.0 % Increase (decrease) $ 10 $ (19 ) % increase (decrease) 2 % (37 )% Internal sales growth (4 )% Acquisition sales growth 6 % In 2005, a decline in internal sales was more than offset by acquisition growth. Volume decreased in our automotive and machinery businesses. Lower production levels in the automotive industry during 2005 led to reduced volume in our businesses supplying that industry. In addition, bedding manufacturers (the primary customers of our machinery business) reduced their capital spending in 2005 due to lower market demand for bedding throughout most of the year. This restricted spending impacted our machinery volume during the year. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2004 primarily due to: Restructuring related and asset impairment charges ($9 million) Unit volume declines Currency impacts (approximately $3 million) Higher workers compensation expense ($2 million) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details about our: Uses of cash Cash from operations Debt position and total capitalization Our priorities for use of cash, in order of importance, are: Finance internal growth and acquisitions Pay dividends and extend our record of annual increases Repurchase our stock 38 Table of Contents Our operations provide much of the cash required to fund these priorities. Over the past two years, we also increased net debt and used excess cash for a portion of these items, including higher levels of acquisitions and share repurchases. Net debt to net capital has increased from 21.9% at the beginning of 2005 to 28.0% at the end of 2006. Our long term goal is to have net debt as a percent of net capital in the 30% 40% range, while maintaining our longstanding single A debt rating. Uses of Cash Finance Growth We use cash to fund growth, both internally through capital expenditures and externally through acquisitions. Capital expenditures are investments we make to modernize, maintain, and expand manufacturing capacity. We expect 2007 capital spending to be about $180 million, up slightly from 2006. Acquisitions add to our business by expanding our markets, product lines, or manufacturing capabilities. Our level of acquisition spending was lower in 2006 than it was in 2005, as fewer opportunities came to fruition. 39 Table of Contents In 2005, we completed several acquisitions, including the third largest in our history. In addition to the initial cash outlays for acquisitions (shown in the accompanying chart), we also assumed debt of $1 million, $35 million, and $5 million, respectively in the 2004, 2005, and 2006 transactions. We acquired five businesses in 2006 that should add about $75 million to annual revenue. All these transactions occurred in the Residential Furnishings segment. These acquisitions: broadened our geographic presence and product offerings in geo components expanded our rubber carpet underlay business added to our international spring operations In 2005, we acquired 12 companies with annualized sales of approximately $320 million ($170 million in Residential Furnishings and $150 million in Specialized Products). Residential Furnishings: We added 10 businesses in this segment. The largest, Ikex/Jarex, significantly expanded our presence in the conversion and distribution of geo components. Geo components include geotextiles (synthetic fabrics used in a variety of applications such as ground stabilization, drainage protection, erosion control, and weed control), silt fencing, seed, and other related products sold primarily to the construction, landscaping, and agricultural industries. The other acquisitions in the segment: established, early in 2005, a small foothold in geo components broadened our product offerings to include all major types of carpet underlay expanded our base of operations producing furniture mechanisms in China added to our businesses that produce and sell bedding components, upholstered furniture components, and top of the bed products Commercial Fixturing & Components: We acquired one company which had been a key supplier to our Fixture & Display operations for many years. This company produces retail store fixtures and gondola shelving. Importantly, it gave us an operating presence in China from which to serve the growing domestic Chinese market. The acquisition expanded our manufacturing capacity but did not significantly increase our reported sales since most of the product is sold to other Leggett operations for distribution in the U.S. Specialized Products: We acquired Americas Body Company, a designer, manufacturer, and supplier of equipment for light to medium duty commercial trucks. Major product categories include van interiors (racks, shelving, and cabinets installed in service vans) and truck bodies (for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks, and dump trucks). We provide additional details about acquisitions in Note B to the financial statements on page 63. Pay Dividends * Actual Dividend Payout annual dividend rate / average EPS for prior three years 40 Table of Contents In 2006, we increased our annual dividend for the 35th consecutive year. Over the last three years, dividends have grown at a 7% compound annual rate. Our long term target for dividend payout is approximately one third of the prior three years average earnings. Our actual dividend payout has been above those levels in recent years, but as earnings grow, we expect to move back toward that target. We expect to spend approximately $125 million on dividend payments in 2007. Repurchase Stock During the past two years, we have purchased a total of 16.5 million shares of our stock and reduced our outstanding shares by about 7%. We typically fund our share repurchases with cash from operations. In 2005, we purchased 10.3 million of our shares, considerably more than in any previous year. This was an opportunistic move that was driven by two main factors: 1) additional cash was available as we increased net debt, and 2) a lower stock price in the last few months of the year presented an attractive buying opportunity. Almost six million shares were purchased during a nine week period in the third and fourth quarters, at an average price of about $20.25 per share. In 2006, share repurchases were lower (versus 2005), in part because we did not have as large an increase in our net debt levels. The cash available to repurchase shares will fluctuate each year with earnings, capital spending, and the pace of acquisitions. At a minimum, we typically repurchase shares to replace those issued for employee stock plans (approximately two million shares each year). Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have been authorized by the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 10 million shares in 2007. We expect to spend about $250 $300 million in 2007 for acquisitions and share repurchases combined. 41 Table of Contents Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Changes in earnings and working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. In 2006, cash from operations increased 7% over 2005. Earnings grew in 2006, but were partially offset by increased working capital due to higher inventories. This inventory increase resulted primarily from softening demand in certain markets and opportunistic pre buys of raw materials. Working capital management remains a priority, and we expect to improve these levels (as a percent of sales) in 2007. In 2005, cash from operations increased, despite lower earnings. A smaller increase in working capital (compared to 2004) was the main driver, and resulted primarily from lower inflation. In 2004, cash from operations benefited from stronger earnings, but was reduced overall by an increase in working capital. The higher working capital levels were primarily the result of inflation. Working capital levels vary by segment, with the requirements of Aluminum Products and Commercial Fixturing & Components generally higher than overall company averages. Accounts receivable balances in these segments are typically higher due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Aluminum Die Casting and Fixture & Display businesses. These same businesses also require higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of their products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. 42 Table of Contents Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. 2006 2005 2004 (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 906 $ 922 $ 779 Average interest rates * 5.0 % 5.0 % 4.1 % Average maturities in years * 7.4 7.8 5.6 Revolving credit/commercial paper 154 Total long term debt 1,060 922 779 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 163 156 145 Shareholders equity 2,351 2,249 2,313 Total capitalization $ 3,574 $ 3,327 $ 3,237 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 246 $ 400 $ 342 Short term Total unused committed credit $ 246 $ 400 $ 342 Current maturities of long term debt $ 52 $ 99 $ 401 Cash and cash equivalents $ 132 $ 65 $ 491 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges ** 6.2x 6.7x 8.0x * These calculations include current maturities but exclude commercial paper. ** Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, and implied interest included in operating leases. The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2006 and 2005. We show this calculation in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization, each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows more meaningful comparison to recent periods during which cash has ranged from $65 million to $491 million. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. 2006 2005 (Dollar amounts inmillions) Long term debt $ 1,060 $ 922 Current debt maturities 52 99 Cash and cash equivalents (132 ) (65 ) Net debt $ 980 $ 956 Total capitalization $ 3,574 $ 3,327 Current debt maturities 52 99 Cash and cash equivalents (132 ) (65 ) Net capitalization $ 3,494 $ 3,361 Long term debt to total capitalization 29.7 % 27.7 % Net debt to net capitalization 28.0 % 28.4 % 43 Table of Contents Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) increased $91 million in 2006. During the year, we added $190 million of debt, including $154 million of commercial paper borrowings, and repaid $99 million of debt that came due. Since 2003, weve issued $730 million of fixed rate debt with an average remaining life at the end of 2006 of 8.5 years, and a weighted average coupon rate of 4.7%. To further facilitate the issuance of debt and other securities, $300 million remains available under a shelf registration. In addition to issuing long term notes, we can also raise cash by issuing up to $400 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $400 million, five year revolving credit commitment. We expect any commercial paper issued under this agreement to be classified as long term debt since we intend to maintain or increase the balance until it is replaced with long term notes. At the end of 2006, $154 million in commercial paper was outstanding under this program. With both the shelf registration and the commercial paper program in place, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations and take advantage of growth opportunities. Most of our debt has fixed repayment dates. At the end of 2006, this debt consisted primarily of term notes. We have maintained a single A rating (from both Moodys and Standard & Poors) on our term notes and public debt for over a decade. Our commercial paper program carries a Moodys rating of P 1 and a Standard & Poors rating of A 1. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual obligations and commitments: Total Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt* $ 1,093 $ 40 $ 107 $ 177 $ 769 Capitalized leases 19 12 4 2 1 Operating leases 171 50 63 35 23 Purchase obligations** 431 431 Interest payments *** 369 54 97 78 140 Deferred income taxes 67 67 Other obligations (including pensions) 96 6 13 9 68 Total contractual cash obligations $ 2,246 $ 593 $ 284 $ 301 $ 1,068 * The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. Long term debt includes $154 million of outstanding commercial paper, which is generally due overnight. We have classified commercial paper as long term debt (due in 3 5 years) since the commercial paper program is supported by a $400 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2011. ** Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. *** Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2006 at rates in effect at the end of the year. These totals include interest on the $154 million of outstanding commercial paper discussed above. 44 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur. Critical accounting estimates are those that are: a) subject to uncertainty and change, and b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed here are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements: Asset and goodwill impairment Inventory Workers compensation, general liability, and employee benefit programs Credit losses Pension accounting Income taxes Contingencies We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the financial statements on page 59. Asset and Goodwill Impairment Long lived assets are assessed annually, and whenever events warrant, to ensure that future cash flows (from use of the asset) exceed the book value of the asset. In performing these assessments, we make judgments and estimates about: a) the future cash flows expected from use (and eventual disposition) of the assets, and b) the assets fair market values. If actual future cash flows are lower than our estimates, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. Our eleven reporting units for goodwill purposes are one level below our operating segments, and are the same as the Business Groups disclosed in Item 1. Business of our 2006 Form 10 K. We assess our reporting units for possible goodwill impairment on an annual basis and whenever events warrant. In doing so, we estimate the fair market values of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow model. Key assumptions and estimates used in the cash flow model include discount rate, internal sales growth, margins, capital expenditure requirements, and working capital requirements. Recent performance of the reporting unit is an important factor, but not the only factor, in our assessment. To date, none of our assessments has determined that a goodwill impairment exists for any of our reporting units. The total amount of goodwill at December 31, 2006, was $1.1 billion. The Fixture & Display Group, one of our reporting units, is operating at levels below our long term expectations. We reviewed this group for potential goodwill impairment as of June 30, 2006 (our annual testing date), and determined that the fair market value exceeded the recorded value of the groups assets, so no impairment was recognized. If earnings in this group fail to more consistently meet forecasted levels, a goodwill impairment charge may be necessary in the future. About $300 million of goodwill is associated with these operations. Inventory In determining the value of inventories, we make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow moving (i.e. not selling very quickly). If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those 45 Table of Contents items are generally deemed to have no value. If we have more than a one years supply of a product, we value that inventory at net realizable value (what we think we will recover). At December 31, 2006, we had reduced inventory values by $39 million (approximately 4% of total inventory valued on a FIFO basis) to account for obsolete and slow moving items. Workers Compensation, General Liability, and Employee Benefit Programs We are substantially self insured for certain costs related to workers compensation, automobile, product and general liability, property, and medical insurance. When estimating the potential amounts we might have to pay (since we are self insured), we consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, valuations provided by independent actuaries (where appropriate), and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. In 2005, we significantly increased our reserve for workers compensation to reflect higher costs of medical care and longer durations of claims (as more treatment options are available and can continue over longer periods of time). Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $26 million annually for costs associated with these insurance programs. Average year to year variation over the past five years has been approximately $4 million. At December 31, 2006, we had accrued $70 million to cover future self insurance liabilities. Credit Losses Our customers are diverse. Many are small to medium sized companies, and some are highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning. We regularly evaluate the ability of our customers to pay what they owe us. When we become aware of a specific customers potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible. We consider factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical experience. The total amount of credit losses over the last three years is $21 million. At December 31, 2006, our reserves for doubtful accounts totaled $22 million (about 2.5% of our accounts and notes receivable of $895 million). Pension Accounting For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations. The two most critical assumptions affecting these estimates are the discount rate and the expected return on assets. Other assumptions include rates of compensation increases, withdrawal and mortality rates, and retirement ages. These estimates impact the pension expense or income we recognize and our reported benefit obligations. We have recognized the impact of individual plans funded amounts on the balance sheet, and continue to use a September 30 measurement date for our most significant plans. To reflect market interest rates, in 2006 we increased the discount rate for our major pension plans to 5.75% from 5.5%. We continued to assume long term returns of 8.0% on the assets of these plans, which was identical to our 2005 and 2004 assumptions. Sensitivity to changes in the critical assumptions for our major plans is as follows: Discount rate: a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $.5 million and decrease the plans funded status by approximately $6 million. 46 Table of Contents Expected return on assets: a 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.5 million, but have no effect on the plans funded status. In 2005, we also adjusted to a longer average life expectancy for participants, increasing the total future benefits plan members are anticipated to receive. This reduced the funded status of the plans by $10 million. We expect that the combined contribution in 2007 to our defined benefit plans will total approximately $2 million. On December 31, 2006, our defined benefit Retirement Plan covering non union employees was frozen, thereby eliminating the future accrual of benefits to current participants and closing the plan to new participants. This plan change should reduce the projected benefit obligation by $12 million, and reduce 2007 pension expense by $4 million. Current participants will be moved to a defined contribution plan with a company contribution based upon the current age of the participant. Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. At December 31, 2006, five open years were undergoing (or subject to) audit by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Canada Revenue Agency. In 2005, audits in both countries for the years 2000 and 2001 were settled in all material respects with no significant adjustments. In 2006, the IRS examination for the years 2002 and 2003 was concluded. A final report was issued, and the net refund of approximately $11 million, plus interest, was under review by the Joint Committee on Taxation as of December 31, 2006. The largest issue pertained to a refund claim we made for a worthless stock deduction. The resolution of this item has been reflected in 2006 as a reduction in the Companys overall tax rate. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had $38 million and $37 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Valuation reserves are established against future potential tax benefits to reflect the amounts that we believe have no more than a 50% probability of being realized. In addition, assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of such earnings. Contingencies Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. In 2005, we recorded a receivable of $5 million related to an ongoing international dispute over countervailing duties (CVD) and anti dumping duties (ADD) imposed by the United States on softwood lumber imported from Canada. This receivable represented our estimate of the payments to be refunded to us based on the difference between the rates we actually paid and the final rates, as determined by the U.S. Department of Commerce in their first and second annual administrative reviews. 47 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2006, the U.S. and Canada finalized an agreement to settle this dispute, and as a result, we were refunded $21 million in duties and interest for our claim. We have recorded this refund as income ($16 million in 2006 and $5 million in 2005), and provide additional details of this activity and other contingencies in Note M to the financial statements on page 88. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In February 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments. SFAS 155 establishes, among other things, the accounting for certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments and is effective for the Company January 1, 2007. This statement is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial reporting and disclosures. In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). This interpretation modified the accounting for uncertain income tax positions recognized in accordance with SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Specifically, FIN 48 changes the application of SFAS 109 by establishing criteria that an individual tax position must meet for any part of the benefit of that position to be recognized in an enterprises financial statements. Additionally, FIN 48 provides new rules for measurement, derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting for income taxes in interim periods, as well as disclosure and transition. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company will adopt FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007, and does not expect its adoption to have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities, and requires additional disclosure about the use of fair value measures, the information used to measure fair value, and the effect fair value measurements have on earnings. The primary areas in which the Company utilizes fair value measures are valuing pension plan assets and liabilities, valuing hedge related derivative financial instruments, allocating purchase price to the assets and liabilities of acquired companies, and evaluating long term assets for potential impairment. SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2008. The adoption of SFAS 157 is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. SFAS 158 requires the Company to recognize the funded status of each of its defined benefit postretirement plans as an asset or liability on the balance sheet. This requirement is effective as of December 31, 2006, and is reflected in the accompanying financial statements. Future changes in funded status that are not reflected in net income will be recognized in other comprehensive income. The net impact of the adoption of SFAS 158 was a net reduction in shareholders equity of $19.8 million. SFAS 158 will also require the Company to measure the funded status of its plans as of year end beginning with the December 31, 2008 balance sheet. The Company currently uses September 30 as the measurement date for its most significant plans. In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (SAB 108) which expresses the staffs views regarding quantifying the effects of financial statement errors. Currently, the two methods most commonly used to quantify misstatements are the rollover method (which focuses primarily on the impact of misstatements on the current period income statement) and the iron curtain method (which focuses primarily on the cumulative effect of misstatements on the balance sheet). SAB 108 requires companies to consider both the rollover and iron curtain methods (a dual approach) when evaluating the materiality of financial statement errors. SAB 108 is effective for the Company beginning with its December 31, 2006 annual financial statements. The adoption of SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. 48 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) INTEREST RATES The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars. (See discussion of Net Investment Hedges provided in Note P to the financial statements on page 92). The fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its $846.7 carrying value by $43.5 at December 31, 2006, and less than its $921.7 carrying value by $23.5 at December 31, 2005. The fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using an interest rate equal to the U.S. Treasury Bond rate as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs under its medium term note program. A 50 basis point increase in the interest rate would result in an additional $24.0 reduction in the fair value of fixed rate debt. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Long term debt as of December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter 2006 2005 Principal fixed rate debt $ 25.0 $ 71.5 $ 15.0 $ 735.2 $ 846.7 $ 921.7 Average interest rate 7.40 % 6.31 % 7.26 % 4.74 % 4.99 % 5.17 % Principal variable rate debt 9.9 9.7 9.7 21.3 .5 22.0 73.1 72.1 Average interest rate 3.90 % 3.86 % 3.86 % 3.82 % 3.61 % 4.05 % 3.91 % 3.10 % Miscellaneous debt* 192.2 26.4 Total debt 1,112.0 1,020.2 Less: current maturities (52.0 ) (98.6 ) Total long term debt $ 1,060.0 $ 921.6 * Includes $154.4 of commercial paper expected to be refinanced on a long term basis and is supported by a $400 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2011. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It is the Companys policy not to speculate in derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in Note P to the financial statements on page 92 and is incorporated by reference into this section. INVESTMENT IN FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment and does not hedge translation exposures, except for the net investment hedge discussed in Note P to the financial statements on page 92. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation exposure at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2006 2005 Canadian Dollar $ 316.9 $ 311.2 European Currencies 299.5 270.0 Mexican Peso 79.8 80.0 Chinese Renminbi 115.7 79.1 Other 65.9 40.5 Total $ 877.8 $ 780.8 49 Table of Contents 
 
