Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, on page 28, and Note C on page 68 and Note D on page 69 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Overview of Our Four Segments in Continuing Operations Residential Furnishings Segment Our Residential Furnishings segment began with an 1885 patent of the steel coil bedspring. Today, we supply a variety of components used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. Our wide range of products offers our customers a single source for many of their component needs. Long production runs, internal production of key raw materials, and numerous manufacturing and assembly locations allow us to supply many customers with components at a lower cost than our customers can produce the same parts for their own use. In addition to cost savings, sourcing components from Leggett allows our customers to focus on designing, merchandising and marketing their products. Products Products manufactured or distributed by our Residential Furnishings groups include: Bedding Group Innersprings (sets of steel coils, bound together, that form the core of a mattress) Wire forms for mattress foundations Adjustable electric beds Home Furniture & Consumer Products Group Steel mechanisms and hardware (enabling furniture to recline, tilt, swivel, rock and elevate) for reclining chairs and sleeper sofas Springs and seat suspensions for chairs, sofas and loveseats Steel tubular seat frames Bed frames, ornamental beds, comforters, decorative pillows and other top of bed accessories 4 Table of Contents Fabric, Foam & Fiber Group Structural fabrics for mattresses, residential furniture and industrial uses Carpet underlay materials (bonded scrap foam, felt, rubber and prime foam) Coated fabrics (non slip rug underlay and shelf liners) Geo components (synthetic fabrics and various other products used in ground stabilization, drainage protection, erosion and weed control, as well as silt fencing, chemicals, seed and fertilizer) As part of our 2007 Strategic Plan, we expect to exit the Coated Fabrics business unit by the end of 2008. However, this business unit did not meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale or a discontinued operation, as of December 31, 2007. Customers Most of our Residential Furnishings customers are manufacturers of finished bedding products (mattresses and foundations) or upholstered furniture for residential use. We also sell many products, including ornamental beds, bed frames, adjustable beds, carpet underlay, and top of bed accessories, directly to retailers and distributors. We sell geo components products primarily to dealers, contractors, landscapers, road construction companies, golf courses and government agencies. Commercial Fixturing & Components Segment Our Fixture & Display group designs, produces, installs and manages our customers store fixtures and point of purchase projects. Our Office Furniture Components group designs, manufactures, and distributes a wide range of engineered components targeted for the office seating market. Products Products manufactured or distributed by our Commercial Fixturing & Components groups include: Fixture & Display Group Custom designed, full store fixture packages for retailers, including shelving, counters, point of purchase displays, showcases, garment racks and decorative woodwork Standardized shelving used by large retailers, grocery stores and discount chains Office Furniture Components Group Bases, columns, back rests, casters and frames for office chairs, and control devices that allow office chairs to tilt, swivel and elevate 5 Table of Contents Customers Customers of the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment include: Retail chains and specialty shops Brand name marketers and distributors of consumer products Office, institutional and commercial furniture manufacturers Industrial Materials Segment The high quality of the Industrial Materials segments products and service, together with low cost, have made us North Americas leading supplier of drawn steel wire and a major producer of welded steel tubing. Our Wire group operates a steel rod mill with an annual output of approximately 500,000 tons, nearly all of which is used by our own wire mills. We have six wire mills that supply virtually all the wire consumed by Leggetts other domestic businesses. Our Tubing group operates two major plants that also supply nearly all of our internal needs for welded steel tubing. In addition to supporting our internal requirements, the Industrial Materials segment supplies many external customers with wire and tubing products. Products Products manufactured or distributed by our Industrial Materials groups include: Wire Group Steel rod Drawn wire Fabricated wire products, such as wire ties to bale cotton; shaped wire for automotive and medical supply applications; tying heads, boxed wire, and parts for automatic baling equipment; coated wire products, including dishwasher racks; and wire retail fixtures and point of purchase displays. Tubing Group Welded steel tubing Fabricated tube components Customers Leggett uses about half of our wire output and about one quarter of our welded steel tubing output to manufacture our own products. For example, we use our wire and steel tubing to make: Bedding and furniture components Motion furniture mechanisms Commercial fixtures, point of purchase displays and shelving Automotive seat components and frames 6 Table of Contents The Industrial Materials segment also has a diverse group of external customers, including: Bedding and furniture makers Automotive seating manufacturers Lawn and garden equipment manufacturers Mechanical spring makers Waste recyclers, waste removal businesses and cotton balers Medical supply businesses Specialized Products Segment Our Specialized Products segment designs, produces and sells components primarily for automotive seating, specialized machinery and equipment, and service van interiors. Our established design capability and focus on product development have made us a leader in innovation. We also benefit from our broad geographic presence and our internal production of key raw materials and components. Products Products manufactured or distributed by our Specialized Products groups include: Automotive Group Manual and power lumbar support and massage systems for automotive seating Seat suspension systems Automotive control cables, such as shift cables, cruise control cables, seat belt cables, accelerator cables, seat control cables and latch release cables Low voltage motors and actuation assemblies Formed metal and wire components for seat frames Machinery Group Full range of quilting machines for mattress covers Machines used to shape wire into various types of springs Industrial sewing machines Other equipment for bedding factory automation Commercial Vehicle Products Group Van interiors (the racks, shelving and cabinets installed in service vans) Docking stations that mount computers and other electronic equipment inside vehicles Specialty trailers used by telephone, cable and utility companies Customers Our primary customers for the Specialized Products segment include: Automobile seating manufacturers Bedding manufacturers Telecom, cable, home service and delivery companies 7 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Divestitures Historically, our typical acquisition targets have been small, private, profitable, entrepreneurial companies that manufacture goods either within our existing product lines or one step away from those product lines and complementary to our existing businesses. As part of the 2007 Strategic Plan, we expect fewer and more strategic acquisitions to be completed. All acquisitions must create value by enhancing TSR; they must have clear strategic rationale and sustainable competitive advantage in attractive markets. 2007 Acquisitions We acquired 3 businesses during 2007 with annualized sales of approximately $100 million broken down by segment as follows: Commercial Fixturing & Components $ 20 million Industrial Materials $ 50 million Specialized Products $ 30 million In Commercial Fixturing & Components we added one business located in China which produces office furniture components. We also added one business to the Industrial Materials segment, which produces coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers. Finally, in the Specialized Products segment, we added a business which is a designer and assembler of docking stations that secure computer and other electronic equipment inside vehicles. 2006 Acquisitions We acquired 5 businesses in 2006 with annualized sales of about $75 million. All of the transactions occurred in the Residential Furnishings segment. These acquisitions broadened our geographic presence and product offering in geo components, expanded our carpet underlay business, and added to our international spring operations. 2005 Acquisitions In 2005, we acquired 12 businesses with annualized sales (in continuing operations) of approximately $240 million ($170 million in Residential Furnishings and $70 million in Specialized Products). These businesses primarily expanded our presence in the conversion and distribution of geo components, broadened our offerings for carpet underlay, and added to our business that manufactures and installs products for commercial vehicles. For further information about acquisitions, see Note G on page 75 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Divestitures For a description of our planned divestitures associated with the 2007 Strategic Plan, see The 2007 Strategic Plan in this Item 1. Business on page 3. In the first quarter of 2007, we divested our Prime Foam Products business unit, which primarily produced commodity foam used for cushioning by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers. We retained our operations that manufacture carpet underlay. This sale marked the largest divestiture in our history, generating a pre tax gain of approximately $24 million. For the full years 2005 and 2006, the Prime Foam Products business unit contributed, respectively, $143 million and $192 million of sales. Our former Prime Foam Products business unit is classified as a discontinued operation. For further information about divestitures and discontinued operations, see Note B on page 66 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Segment Financial Information For information about sales to external customers, sales by product line, earnings before interest and taxes, and total assets of each of our segments, refer to Note O on page 92 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 Table of Contents Foreign Operations The percentages of our external sales from continuing operations related to products manufactured outside the United States for the previous three years are shown in the table below. Year Percent 2007 26 % 2006 23 % 2005 23 % Our international continuing operations, measured by trade sales, are principally located in Canada, Europe, Mexico and China. We have 12 production facilities in China. The products we make in these countries associated with continuing operations primarily consist of: Canada Innersprings for mattresses Fabricated wire for the bedding, furniture and automotive industries Shelving and point of purchase displays for retailers Chair frames and bases, table bases and office chair controls Lumbar supports for automotive seats Wire and steel storage systems and racks for the interior of service vans and utility vehicles Europe Innersprings for mattresses Structural fabric for industrial and residential uses Wire and wire products Lumbar and seat suspension systems for automotive seating Machinery and equipment designed to manufacture innersprings for mattresses and other bedding related components Design and distribution of point of purchase displays for retailers Mexico Innersprings and fabricated wire for the bedding industry Structural fabric for industrial and residential uses Retail shelving and point of purchase displays Automotive control cable systems China Innersprings for mattresses Recliner mechanisms and bases for upholstered furniture Formed wire for upholstered furniture Retail store fixtures and gondola shelving Office furniture components, including chair bases and casters Stamped seat frames and formed metal products for automotive seating Cables and small electric motors used in lumbar systems for automotive seating Machinery and replacement parts for machines used in the bedding industry Our international expansion strategy is to locate our operations where we believe demand for components is growing. Also, in instances where our customers move the production of their finished products overseas, we have located facilities nearby to supply them efficiently. Our international operations face the risks associated with any operation in a foreign country. These risks include: Nationalization of private enterprises 9 Table of Contents Political instability in certain countries Foreign legal systems that make it difficult to protect intellectual property and enforce contract rights Credit risks Increased costs due to tariffs, customs and shipping rates Potential problems obtaining raw materials, and disruptions related to the availability of electricity and transportation during times of crisis or war Foreign currency fluctuation These and other foreign related risks could result in cost increases, reduced profits, the inability to carry on our foreign operations and other adverse effects on our business. Geographic Areas of Operation We have manufacturing, warehousing and distribution facilities in countries around the world. Below is a list of countries where we have facilities associated with continuing operations: Segment North America Europe South America Asia / Pacific Africa Residential Furnishings Canada Mexico United States Croatia Denmark France Spain United Kingdom Brazil Australia China South Africa Commercial Fixturing &Components Canada Mexico United States Italy United Kingdom China Industrial Materials Mexico United States China Specialized Products Canada Mexico United States Austria Belgium Croatia Germany Hungary Italy Spain Switzerland United Kingdom China India South Korea For further information concerning our long lived assets and sales outside the United States, refer to Note O on page 92 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Sales by Product Line The following table shows our approximate percentage of external sales from continuing operations by product line for the last three years: Product Line 2007 2006 2005 Bedding Components 19 % 19 % 21 % Home Furniture & Consumer Products 15 15 16 Fabric, Foam & Fiber 20 21 17 Fixtures & Displays 14 14 15 Office Furniture Components 5 5 5 Wire & Wire Products 10 9 10 Steel Tubing 2 3 3 Automotive Products 8 8 8 Commercial Vehicle Products 4 3 2 Specialized Machinery 3 3 3 10 Table of Contents Distribution of Products In each of our segments, we sell and distribute our products primarily through the Companys sales personnel. However, many of our businesses have relationships and agreements with outside sales representatives and distributors. We do not believe any of these agreements or relationships would, if terminated, have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Raw Materials The products we manufacture in continuing operations require a variety of raw materials. Among the most important are: Various types of steel, including scrap, rod, wire, coil, sheet and angle iron Foam scrap Woven and non woven fabrics Leggett supplies its own raw materials for many of the products we make. For example, we produce steel rod that we make into steel wire, which we then use to manufacture: Innersprings and foundations for mattresses Springs and seat suspensions for chairs and sofas Displays, shelving and racks for retailers Automotive seating components We currently supply roughly two thirds of our steel rod requirements through our own rod mill. Our own wire drawing mills supply nearly all of our U.S. requirements for steel wire. We also produce welded steel tubing both for our own consumption and for sale to external customers. We believe that worldwide supply sources are available for all the raw materials used by the Company. However, we have experienced volatility in raw material prices in the last three years, most notably in the following areas: Steel: Early in 2007 the cost of steel scrap increased, leading to higher rod costs. We have implemented price increases to pass through some of these costs. In late 2007, once again we began seeing higher steel costs which are continuing into early 2008. Since early December, market prices have increased 15% to 30% depending upon the type of steel. Foam scrap: The cost of foam scrap increased significantly throughout 2006 with the overall cost doubling from the prices at the end of 2005. Foam scrap costs declined in 2007. These decreases have led to lower selling prices in carpet underlay, and a sales decline versus 2006 in our Carpet Underlay business unit. The future pricing of raw materials is uncertain. The degree to which we are able to mitigate or recover higher costs, should they occur, could influence our 2008 earnings. Higher raw material costs have led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. In some cases, higher cost components have been replaced with lower cost components, causing us to shift production accordingly. This has primarily impacted profit margins in our Residential Furnishings segment. We are responding by developing new innersprings designed to enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Customers We serve thousands of customers worldwide, sustaining many long term business relationships. In 2007, no customer accounted for more than 5% of the Companys consolidated revenues from continuing operations. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 20% of these consolidated revenues. 11 Table of Contents Some of our segments have customers whose purchases exceeded 10% of the segments sales from continuing operations in 2007: Commercial Fixturing & Components has one customer accounting for approximately 14% and Specialized Products has one customer accounting for approximately 12%. The loss of these customers may have a material adverse effect upon the relevant segment. Patents and Trademarks Leggett holds approximately 1,100 patents and has about 650 in process for its various product lines associated with continuing operations. Seventy five issued patents and around 70 pending patents are associated with discontinued operations. We have registered almost 750 trademarks, with more than 200 in process associated with continuing operations. We have approximately 130 registered trademarks and almost 20 pending trademarks associated with discontinued operations. No single patent or group of patents, or trademark or group of trademarks, is material to our continuing operations. Most of our patents and trademarks relate to products sold in the Specialized Products and Residential Furnishings segments. Some of our most significant trademarks include: Semi Flex&reg; and Semi Fold (boxspring components and foundations) Mira Coil&reg;, Verticoil, Lura Flex&reg; and Superlastic&reg; (mattress innersprings) Lifestyles&reg;, S cape&reg; and Adjustables by Leggett & Platt&reg; (adjustable electric beds) Wall Hugger&reg; (recliner chair mechanisms) Super Sagless&reg; (motion and sofa sleeper mechanisms) No Sag&reg; (wire forms used in seating) Tack & Jump&reg; and Pattern Link&reg; (quilting machines) Hanes&reg; (fiber materials) Schukra&reg;, Pullmaflex&reg; and Flex O Lator&reg; (automotive seating products) Spuhl&reg; (mattress innerspring manufacturing machines) Gribetz and Porter&reg; (quilting and sewing machines) ABC Americas Body Co., Quietflex&reg; and Masterack&reg; (equipment and accessories for vans and trucks) Research and Development We maintain research, engineering and testing centers in Carthage, Missouri, and do additional research and development work at many of our other facilities. We are unable to precisely calculate the cost of research and development because the personnel involved in product and machinery development also spend portions of their time in other areas. However, we estimate the cost of research and development associated with continuing operations was approximately $25 to $30 million in each of the last three years. Employees As of December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately 24,000 employees associated with its continuing operations, of which 17,250 were engaged in production. Of the 24,000, approximately 9,500 are international employees. Labor unions represent roughly 3,400 of our employees associated with continuing operations. We did not experience any material work stoppage related to contract negotiations with labor unions during 2007. Management is not aware of any circumstances likely to result in a material work stoppage related to contract negotiations with labor unions during 2008. 12 Table of Contents The table below shows the approximate number of employees associated with continuing operations by segment. Segment Employees Residential Furnishings 10,600 Commercial Fixturing & Components 4,450 Industrial Materials 2,450 Specialized Products 5,400 Unallocated 1,100 TOTAL 24,000 Employees Associated with Discontinued Operations At December 31, 2007 the Company had approximately 6,550 employees associated with its discontinued operations, of which 4,000 employees are in the Aluminum Products segment, 1,000 employees are in the Residential Furnishings segment, 850 employees are in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment, and 700 employees are in the Specialized Products segment. For more information on our discontinued operations, see Note B on page 66 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition Many companies offer products that compete with those we manufacture and sell. The number of competing companies varies by product line, but many of the markets for our products are highly competitive. We tend to attract and retain customers through product quality, innovation, competitive pricing and customer service, while many of our competitors try to win business primarily on price. We believe we are the largest independent manufacturer in North America, in terms of revenue, of the following: Components for residential furniture and bedding Retail store fixtures and point of purchase displays Components for office furniture Drawn steel wire Automotive seat support and lumbar systems Carpet underlay Adjustable beds Bedding industry machinery for wire forming, sewing and quilting We face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, we believe our operations should be located nearby to supply them efficiently. Accordingly, at the end of 2007, Leggett operated 12 facilities in China. We have experienced increased price competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. We reacted to this competition by selectively adjusting prices and developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. We believe Asian manufacturers currently benefit from cost advantages for commodities such as steel and chemicals. Foreign manufacturers also benefit from lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. We believe innersprings are being imported into the U.S. at low prices that violate our trade laws, and also are frequently imported under improper tariff classifications, thus avoiding duties. In late 2007, we filed an anti dumping petition with the U.S. government on behalf of the innerspring industry to attempt to remedy this situation. 13 Table of Contents Seasonality As a diversified manufacturer, we do not experience significant seasonality, although our quarter to quarter sales have generally varied in proportion to the total year by roughly 1.5%. The timing of acquisitions and economic factors in any year can distort the underlying seasonality in certain of our businesses. Nevertheless, for the Company as a whole, the second and third quarters typically have proportionately greater sales, while the first and fourth quarters are generally lower. Our four segments associated with continuing operations tend to experience seasonality as follows: Residential Furnishings: typically has the strongest sales in the second and third quarters due to increased consumer demand for bedding and furniture during those periods. Commercial Fixturing & Components: generally has heavy third quarter sales of its store fixture products, with the first and fourth quarters normally lower. This aligns with the retail industrys normal construction cycle the opening of new stores and completion of remodeling projects in advance of the holiday season. Industrial Materials: minimal variation in sales throughout the year. Specialized Products: relatively little quarter to quarter variation in sales, although the automotive business is somewhat heavier in the second and fourth quarters of the year and lower in the third quarter due to model changeovers and plant shutdowns in the automobile industry during the summer. Backlog Our customer relationships and our manufacturing and inventory practices do not create a material amount of backlog orders for any of our segments. Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to the level of incoming orders and projected demand based on customer relationships. Working Capital Items For information regarding working capital items, see the discussion of Cash from Operations in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, on page 38. Environmental Regulation The Companys operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. We have policies intended to ensure that our operations are conducted in keeping with good corporate citizenship and a commitment to protect the natural and workplace environments. While we cannot predict policy changes by various regulatory agencies, management expects that compliance with these laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, capital expenditures, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Internet Access to Other Information Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and all amendments to those reports are made available, without cost, on our website at http://www.leggett.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to these reports, the Companys Financial Code of Ethics, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as charters for its Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors can be found on our website. Each of these documents is available in print, without cost, to any shareholder who requests it. Information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 14 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations As a result of our 2007 Strategic Plan, several of our businesses are disclosed in our annual financial statements as discontinued operations since (i) the operations and cash flows of the businesses can be clearly distinguished and have been or will be eliminated from the Companys ongoing operations; (ii) the businesses have either been disposed of or are classified as held for sale; and (iii) the Company will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the businesses after the disposal transactions. The discontinued operations include: Aluminum Products segment. This segment sells non automotive aluminum, zinc and magnesium die castings and new and refurbished dies (also known as molds or tools) for all types and sizes of die casting machines. It also provides machining, coating, finishing, sub assembly and other value added services for die cast components. These products and services are sold, or provided, to (i) small engine and diesel engine builders; (ii) motorcycle, off road and recreational vehicle, truck and automobile makers; (iii) manufacturers of outdoor lighting fixtures, cable line amplifiers, wireless communications systems, and other cable and telecommunication products; (iv) consumer appliance and power tool manufacturers; (v) producers of electric motors, computers and electronics; (vi) gas barbeque grill manufacturers; and (vii) die cast manufacturers. Wood Products unit and Fibers unit. The Wood Products unit sells wood frames and cut to size dimension lumber to bedding manufacturers. The Fibers unit sells fiber cushioning material primarily to bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers. These units were previously reported in the Residential Furnishings segment. Storage Products unit and Plastics unit. The Storage Products unit sells storage racks and carts used in the food service and healthcare industries. The Plastics unit sells injection molded plastic components primarily for manufacturers of lawn care equipment, power tools and office furniture products. These units were previously reported in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment. Dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products unit and an automotive seating components operation. The dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products unit sells truck bodies for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks and dump trucks primarily to end users of light to medium duty commercial trucks. The automotive seating components operation sells welded assemblies, and wire and tubular frames for automotive seating to automotive manufacturers. Each was previously reported in the Specialized Products segment. Also, in the first quarter of 2007 we sold our Prime Foam Products business unit. This unit primarily produced commodity foam used for cushioning by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers. Our former Prime Foam Products unit was previously reported in the Residential Furnishings segment and has been classified as a discontinued operation. For further information on discontinued operations, see Note B on page 66 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves risk. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking and other statements contained in this report. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC in the future. Our 2007 Strategic Plan may not produce the benefits expected. In November 2007, the Company adopted the 2007 Strategic Plan. There is no guarantee that we will be able to implement the 2007 Strategic Plan on terms and conditions that are favorable to us. The timing of the implementation may be longer than expected. We may not be able to complete the planned divestitures on terms 15 Table of Contents favorable to us. We may also experience a negative impact from our employees, customers and vendors. As such, the 2007 Strategic Plan may not produce the benefits expected by the Company. These setbacks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow from operations and the value of our common stock. Costs of raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. Raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we often attempt to implement price increases to recover the higher costs. We encounter greater difficulty in implementing these price increases in businesses where we have a smaller market share and in products that are of a commodity nature. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. Steel is our most significant raw material. In late 2007, we began seeing higher steel costs which are continuing into early 2008. The global steel and scrap markets are very cyclical in nature, and can result in large swings in margins from year to year. Our operations can also be impacted by the cost of other raw materials. In 2006, the cost of foam scrap increased steadily with the overall cost doubling from the prices at the end of 2005. In 2007, the cost of foam scrap decreased significantly. Since our carpet underlay selling prices are tied to the cost of foam scrap, this cost decrease has impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our reported amount of carpet underlay sales. Higher raw material costs led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. In some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. This has primarily impacted our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials product mix and decreased profit margins. This trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. We have exposure to economic and other factors that may affect market demand for our products. As a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. Our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. Market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. To a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. All of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore drive demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Significant changes in these economic factors may negatively impact the demand for our products and our results of operations. Asian competition could adversely affect our operating results. We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. We face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished product from Asia. If we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed. 16 Table of Contents If our customers move production of their finished products overseas, we believe that our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. At December 31, 2007, we operated 12 facilities in China. If demand in China (and other foreign countries) increases at a more rapid rate than we are able to establish operations, our market share and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Also, we have experienced increased price competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. If this price competition continues we could lose further market share and our earnings could continue to be negatively impacted. We may not be able to improve operating results in the Store Fixtures business unit. The Store Fixtures business unit in our Commercial Fixturing & Components segment has been placed in the Fix category as a result of our 2007 Strategic Plan and given a 12 month deadline by which to improve performance. Factors within the Companys control could contribute to increased margins and earnings improvements in this unit. These factors include, but are not limited to addressing performance issues at underperforming facilities, and purchasing, pricing and continuous improvement initiatives. We have initiated restructuring in the Store Fixtures business unit which includes the elimination of approximately $100 million of the units least profitable revenue. However, through this restructuring activity we may not achieve the margin and earnings improvements that we anticipate. The Store Fixtures business unit is part of the Fixture & Display group, which incurred goodwill impairment charges of $143 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our long lived assets are subject to potential impairment. A significant portion of our assets consist of goodwill and other intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. At December 31, 2007, goodwill and other intangible assets not held for sale represented approximately $1.2 billion, or 29% of our total assets. In addition, net property, plant and equipment, sundry assets and non current assets held for sale totaled approximately $1,075 million, or approximately 26% of total assets. Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, and as triggering events may occur. Other long lived assets are tested for recoverability whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we conducted interim impairment testing as a result of the changes announced with the 2007 Strategic Plan and determined that some long lived assets were impaired. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred goodwill impairment of $243 million, and long lived asset impairment of $44 million. If our business units do not perform as expected we may be required to recognize additional, material reductions in our net income caused by the impairment of long lived assets. Also, as of December 31, 2007 the Company had $481 million of net assets classified as held for sale, of which $15 million represented assets not associated with the 2007 Strategic Plan. If the proceeds generated from these divestitures do not recover their carrying value, the Company will be required to recognize losses on the sale of these assets to the extent of the shortfall. We are exposed to foreign currency risk. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. In 2007, 26% of our sales from continuing operations was generated by international operations. The revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. Further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. We cannot predict whether foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries will have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. The Companys corporate headquarters are located in Carthage, Missouri. At December 31, 2007, we had 312 production, warehouse, sales and administrative facilities associated with continuing operations, of which 230 were disbursed across the United States and 82 were located in foreign countries. Properties by Location and Segment in Continuing Operations Subtotals by Segment Locations Company Wide ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components IndustrialMaterials SpecializedProducts United States 230 139 38 26 27 Canada 20 7 7 0 6 Mexico 10 5 1 2 2 Europe 27 14 3 0 10 Asia 17 9 0 1 7 Other 8 8 0 0 0 Total 312 182 49 29 52 Properties by Use and Segment in Continuing Operations Subtotals by Segment Use Company Wide ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components IndustrialMaterials SpecializedProducts Production* 190 107 32 17 34 Warehouse 78 50 12 6 10 Sales 16 12 0 1 3 Administration 28 13 5 5 5 Total 312 182 49 29 52 * Includes some multi purpose facilities with additional warehouse, sales and or administrative uses. Our most important physical properties are our production plants. The Company owns about 75% of the production facilities accounting for the majority of our consolidated sales. We lease many of our production, warehouse and other facilities on terms that vary by lease (including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs). For additional information regarding lease obligations, see Note K on page 79 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the opinion of management the Companys owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for the manufacture, assembly and distribution of our products. Our properties are located to allow quick and efficient delivery of products and services to our diverse customer base. Our productive capacity associated with continuing operations, in general, continues to exceed current operating levels. Capacity levels are somewhat flexible based on the number of shifts operated and on the number of overtime hours worked. At December 31, 2007 we had 87 production, warehouse, sales and administrative facilities classified as discontinued operations, of which 78 were in the United States and 9 were located in foreign countries. 18 Table of Contents Current Properties by Location and Segment Classified as Discontinued Operations Subtotals by Segment Locations Company Wide ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components AluminumProducts SpecializedProducts United States 78 21 11 32 14 Canada 6 5 1 0 0 Mexico 3 0 1 2 0 Total 87 26 13 34 14 Current Properties by Use and Segment Classified as Discontinued Operations Subtotals by Segment Use Company Wide ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components AluminumProducts SpecializedProducts Production* 55 12 10 21 12 Warehouse 29 13 2 12 2 Sales 1 0 1 0 0 Administration 2 1 0 1 0 Total 87 26 13 34 14 * Includes some multi purpose facilities with additional warehouse, sales and or administrative uses. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. On December 31 2007, the Company filed petitions with the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) alleging that manufacturers of uncovered innersprings in China, South Africa and Vietnam are unfairly selling their products in the United States at less than fair value (dumping). The ITC has made a preliminary determination of material injury to the domestic innerspring industry in this case and the DOC has begun its investigation into our dumping allegations. If the DOC determines that dumping is present and the ITC reaches a final determination that the domestic industry has been materially injured by this unfair trade practice, the U.S. government will impose duties on uncovered innersprings imported from China, South Africa and Vietnam at the dumping rate determined by the DOC. No assurance can be given that these determinations will be made, that duties will be imposed or as to the amount of any duties that may be imposed. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Not applicable. Supplemental Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant. The following information is included in accordance with the provisions of Part III, Item 10 of Form 10 K and Item 401(b) of Regulation S K. 19 Table of Contents The table below sets forth the names, ages and positions of all executive officers of the Company. Executive officers are normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors. Name Age Position David S. Haffner 55 President and Chief Executive Officer Karl G. Glassman 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Jack D. Crusa 53 Senior Vice President and President Specialized Products Joseph D. Downes, Jr. 63 Senior Vice President and President Industrial Materials Matthew C. Flanigan 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Paul R. Hauser 56 Senior Vice President and President Residential Furnishings Daniel R. Hebert 64 Senior Vice President and President Aluminum Products Ernest C. Jett 62 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Dennis S. Park 53 Senior Vice President and President Commercial Fixturing & Components William S. Weil 49 Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Subject to the employment and severance benefit agreements with Messrs. Haffner and Glassman, listed as exhibits to this report, the executive officers generally serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. David S. Haffner was appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2006 and has served as President of the Company since 2002. He served as Chief Operating Officer from 1999 to 2006 and as the Companys Executive Vice President from 1995 to 2002. He has served the Company in other capacities since 1983. Karl G. Glassman was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2006 and has served as Executive Vice President of the Company since 2002. He served as President of the Residential Furnishings Segment from 1999 to 2006, as Senior Vice President of the Company from 1999 to 2002 and as President of Bedding Components from 1996 to 1998. He has served the Company in other capacities since 1982. Jack D. Crusa has served the Company as Senior Vice President since 1999 and President of Specialized Products since 2003. He previously served as President of the Industrial Materials Segment from 1999 through 2004, as President of the Automotive Group from 1996 through 1999 and in various other capacities since 1986. Joseph D. Downes, Jr. was appointed Senior Vice President of the Company in 2005 and President of the Industrial Materials Segment in 2004. He previously served the Company as President of the Wire Group from 1999 to 2004 and in various other capacities since 1976. Matthew C. Flanigan has served the Company as Senior Vice President since 2005 and as Chief Financial Officer since 2003. Mr. Flanigan previously served the Company as Vice President from 2003 to 2005, as Vice President and President of the Office Furniture Components Group from 1999 to 2003 and as Staff Vice President of Operations from 1997 to 1999. Paul R. Hauser became Senior Vice President of the Company in 2005 and President of the Residential Furnishings Segment in 2006. He previously served as Vice President of the Company and President of the Bedding Group from 1999 to 2006. He served in various capacities in the Companys Bedding Group since 1980. Daniel R. Hebert became Senior Vice President of the Company and President of the Aluminum Products Segment in 2002. Mr. Hebert previously served as Executive Vice President of the Aluminum Products Segment from 2000 to 2002 and Vice President of Operations from 1996 to 2000. Ernest C. Jett became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in 2005. He was appointed General Counsel in 1997 and Vice President and Secretary in 1995. He previously served the Company as Assistant General Counsel from 1979 to 1995 and as Managing Director of the Legal Department from 1991 to 1997. 20 Table of Contents Dennis S. Park became Senior Vice President and President of the Commercial Fixturing & Components Segment in 2006. In 2004, he was named President of the Home Furniture and Consumer Products Group and became Vice President of the Company and President of Home Furniture Components in 1996. He served the Company in various other capacities since 1977. William S. Weil was appointed the Chief Accounting Officer by the Board of Directors in February 2004. He became Vice President in 2000 and has served the Company as Corporate Controller since 1991. He previously served the Company in various other accounting capacities since 1983. 21 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. The Companys common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol LEG). The table below highlights quarterly and annual stock market information for the last two years. Price Range Volume ofShares Traded(in Millions) DividendDeclared High Low 2007 Fourth Quarter $ 20.89 $ 17.14 116.3 $ .25 Third Quarter 22.78 18.75 94.9 .18 Second Quarter 24.73 21.40 93.4 .18 First Quarter 24.71 22.12 68.0 .17 For the Year $ 24.73 $ 17.14 372.6 $ .78 2006 Fourth Quarter $ 25.45 $ 22.43 53.2 $ .17 Third Quarter 25.25 21.93 47.6 .17 Second Quarter 27.04 23.74 42.0 .17 First Quarter 25.14 23.05 46.1 .16 For the Year $ 27.04 $ 21.93 188.9 $ .67 Price and volume data reflect composite transactions; price range reflects intra day prices; data source is Bloomberg. Shareholders As of February 15, 2008, the Company estimates it had approximately 37,000 shareholders, which included approximately 12,000 shareholders of record (i.e. stock certificates are issued in the name of the owner) and approximately 25,000 beneficial shareholders (i.e. stock is held for the owner by their stockbroker in the name of the brokerage firm). At year end, institutional investors (e.g. mutual funds, pension funds) as a group held an estimated 75% of the Companys shares; the ten largest positions held an estimated 35%. As part of our 2007 Strategic Plan, the Company increased the annual dividend payout from 72 cents to $1 per share. The Company paid a 25 cent dividend in January 2008 to shareholders of record on December 14, 2007. We are targeting a dividend payout ratio (annual dividends paid divided by net earnings) of 50 60%, though it will likely be higher for the next two years. See the discussion of the Companys targeted dividend payout under Pay Dividends in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation on page 37. 22 Table of Contents Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities The table below is a listing of our repurchases of the Companys common stock during the last quarter of 2007. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased Average Price Paidper Share Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part of aPublicly AnnouncedPlan or Program* MaximumNumber of Sharesthat may yet bepurchased underthe Plans orPrograms* October 1 31, 2007 285 $ 19.21 285 400,545 November 1 30, 2007 436,404 $ 20.01 436,404 9,964,141 December 1 31, 2007 1,059,491 $ 17.98 1,059,491 8,904,650 Total 1,496,180 $ 18.57 1,496,180 * On August 4, 2004, the Board authorized management to repurchase up to 10 million shares each calendar year beginning January 1, 2005. This standing authorization was first reported in the quarterly report on Form 10 Q for the period ended June 30, 2004, filed August 5, 2004, and shall remain in force until repealed by the Board of Directors. On November 13, 2007 the Board accelerated the 10 million share standing repurchase authorization for the 2008 calendar year to begin November 15, 2007. The acceleration was first reported in the Companys press release issued November 13, 2007 and filed on Form 8 K on November 14, 2007. As of December 31, 2007 there were no shares left under the 2007 calendar year standing authorization (which expired January 1, 2008) and 8,904,650 shares left under the 2008 calendar year standing authorization. In addition to this standing authorization, on February 21, 2008, the Board approved the repurchase of an additional 20 million shares during the 2008 calendar year at managements discretion, limited to the amount of divestiture proceeds. This special authorization was first publicly announced in the Companys press release dated February 21, 2008. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. (Unaudited) 2007** 2006* 2005* 2004* 2003* (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Summary of Operations Net Sales from Continuing Operations $ 4,306 $ 4,333 $ 4,258 $ 4,122 $ 3,532 Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 51 236 218 243 178 Net Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued Operations (62 ) 65 33 42 28 Net Earnings (Loss) (11 ) 300 251 285 206 Earnings per share from Continuing Operations Basic .28 1.26 1.13 1.24 .91 Diluted .28 1.26 1.13 1.23 .91 Earnings (Loss) per share from Discontinued Operations Basic (.34 ) .35 .17 .22 .14 Diluted (.34 ) .35 .17 .22 .14 Net Earnings (Loss) per share Basic (.06 ) 1.61 1.30 1.46 1.05 Diluted (.06 ) 1.61 1.30 1.45 1.05 Cash Dividends declared per share .78 .67 .63 .58 .54 Summary of Financial Position Total Assets $ 4,072.5 $ 4,265.3 $ 4,072.4 $ 4,197.2 $ 3,889.7 Long term Debt 1,000.6 1,060.0 921.6 779.4 1,012.2 * As discussed in Note B on page 66 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the amounts for 2003 through 2006 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect certain businesses as discontinued operations. 23 Table of Contents ** As discussed in Notes C and D beginning on page 68, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring charges totaling $305 million in 2007. Of these charges, approximately $138 million were associated with discontinued operations and $167 million related to continuing operations. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. 2007 HIGHLIGHTS We changed strategic course in 2007. During the year we completed an extensive strategic review of our business portfolio. We realigned our goals to focus on improving total shareholder return. We adopted role based portfolio management (with different roles for each business unit based upon competitive advantages, strategic position, and financial health) and implemented a much more rigorous strategic planning process. We also began eliminating or rapidly improving the parts of our business that have been weighing us down. Many of the planned divestitures and necessary operating improvements should occur during 2008. As a result of these changes, we expect to generate significant amounts of cash, spend less cash than in recent years, and return more cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. In support of this objective, the Board of Directors authorized a 39% increase to the annual dividend, beginning in January 2008. The Board also approved, in February 2008, the repurchase of up to 20 million shares during 2008 at managements discretion, limited to the amount of divestiture proceeds. This authorization is in addition to a standing approval to repurchase 10 million shares each year. Sales and earnings of our ongoing businesses declined in 2007 as demand in many U.S. markets softened. International markets were generally stronger, and growth in our international businesses offset some of the domestic weakness. In addition, we recognized significant, non cash goodwill and asset impairment charges in late 2007 following the implementation of the strategic plan. These charges represent virtually all of the costs we anticipate for the strategic plan. Cash from operations increased significantly in 2007 despite generally weak market conditions. This strong cash from operations coupled with the proceeds from the divestiture of our prime foam business (early in the year) resulted in significant available funds. A portion of these funds was used for capital expenditures and acquisitions, and much of the remainder was returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The balance sheet remains very strong; we ended the year with net debt (as a percentage of net capital) slightly below our long term, targeted range. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. INTRODUCTION What We Do Leggett & Platt is a FORTUNE 500 diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs, and produces a wide range of engineered components and products found in many homes, retail stores, offices, and automobiles. We make components that are often hidden within, but integral to, our customers products. We are North Americas leading independent manufacturer of components for residential furniture and bedding, adjustable beds, carpet underlay, retail store fixtures and point of purchase displays, components for office furniture, drawn steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and machinery used by the bedding industry for wire forming, sewing, and quilting. Our Segments Our continuing operations are composed of 22 business units, with approximately 24,000 employee partners, and more than 250 facilities located in 20 countries around the world. Our segments are Residential Furnishings, Commercial Fixturing & Components, Industrial Materials, and Specialized Products. 24 Table of Contents Residential Furnishings This segment supplies a variety of components mainly used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. We also sell adjustable beds, bed frames, ornamental beds, carpet cushion, geo components, and other finished products. Commercial Fixturing & Components Operations in this segment manufacture and sell store fixtures and point of purchase displays used by retailers. We also produce chair controls, bases, and other components for office furniture manufacturers. Industrial Materials These operations primarily supply steel rod, drawn steel wire, and welded steel tubing to other Leggett operations and to external customers. Our wire and tubing is used to make bedding, furniture, automotive seats, retail store fixtures and displays, mechanical springs, and many other end products. Specialized Products From this segment we supply lumbar systems and wire components used by automotive seating manufacturers. We manufacture and install the racks, shelving, and cabinets used to outfit fleets of service vans. We also produce machinery, both for ourselves and for others, including bedding manufacturers. Discontinued Operations and Other Divestitures We divested our Prime Foam operations in early 2007 and expect to divest seven additional businesses during 2008. As a result of these activities, several businesses are disclosed in our year end financial statements as discontinued operations. Those businesses, listed according to the segment in which they previously resided, include: Aluminum Products: entire segment Residential Furnishings: Prime Foam (sold in March 2007), Fibers, and Wood Products Commercial Fixturing & Components: Storage Products and Plastics Specialized Products: Commercial Vehicle Products Dealer Unit We also plan to divest our Coated Fabrics business (which is a part of Residential Furnishings) in 2008, but that divestiture is in an early stage and does not yet qualify the business as a discontinued operation. 25 Table of Contents Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with no single one representing even 5% of our sales from continuing operations. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture and bedding, a variety of other manufacturers, and many major retailers. We primarily sell our products through our own sales employees, although we also use independent sales representatives and distributors in some of our businesses. Strategic Changes During 2007, we completed an extensive review of our business portfolio, triggered in part by our underperformance versus stated growth and operating targets. For each business unit, we considered factors such as competitive advantages, market position, financial performance, and potential growth opportunities. We are making significant changes to our financial targets, portfolio mix, and planning processes as a result of the review. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is now the key success measure that we will monitor. TSR is driven by the change in our share price and the dividends we pay [TSR (Change in Stock Price + Dividends Received) /Beginning Stock Price]. Historically, our primary objective was profitable growth. Going forward, we intend to generate higher TSR through a greater emphasis on improving returns and maximizing cash flow, with growth representing just one of several means to achieve that result. We are modifying our incentive plans to emphasize the importance of, and reward, TSR. Beginning in 2008, we introduced TSR based incentives for senior executives and modified business unit bonuses to include a link to return on assets. We are adopting role based portfolio management and plan to tilt our investments toward businesses with competitive advantages and financial health. Certain of our businesses (growth businesses) are positioned to generate value through further growth, while others (core businesses) are positioned to drive value by improving returns and maximizing cash flow. Both are critical drivers of TSR. We will allocate capital to each business unit (BU) based upon its role in the portfolio. We plan to invest aggressively in growth businesses that hold strong competitive positions and consistently achieve compelling returns on those investments. We plan to maintain or improve our competitive position in core businesses (that typically hold stable positions in solid markets where returns are somewhat lower) and focus on improving returns, but limit further investment in these operations. In total, we anticipate lower capital expenditures and fewer acquisitions in the near term. In addition, we are implementing a more rigorous strategic planning process to continually assess our business units and help guide future decisions regarding the role of each BU, capital allocation priorities, and new areas in which to grow. After significant study, we are narrowing our focus and eliminating over 20% of the portfolio based upon each BUs strategic value and financial returns. Most of this activity is expected to occur in 2008. The largest portion of the revenue reduction, approximately $900 million, will come from the divestiture of the Aluminum Products segment and six additional business units. Additionally, the Store Fixtures business unit was given a 12 month deadline by which to significantly improve performance; we expect to prune about $100 million of the units least profitable revenue. Finally, several business units, though otherwise healthy, contain individual plants that are operating at unacceptable profit levels. We expect to close or divest a number of these unprofitable facilities, resulting in a revenue reduction of approximately $200 million. We believe these changes will increase available cash, and we intend to return more of this cash to shareholders. In support of this objective, the Board of Directors authorized a 39% dividend increase, moving the annual rate to $1.00 per share (from the previous $.72). This increase was effective with the quarterly dividend paid in January 2008. We also expect to continue repurchasing our shares, and have a standing 10 million share annual authorization from the Board. In addition to the standing authorization, the Board has approved the repurchase of up to an additional 20 million shares during 2008 at managements discretion, limited to the amount of divestiture proceeds. Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are: market demand for our products, raw material cost trends, and competition. 26 Table of Contents Market Demand Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Throughout 2007, demand weakness in the U.S. home related and retail markets led to lower volume in certain of our businesses. In contrast, we saw strength in most international markets, including bedding, furniture, and automotive, as well as the non dealer portion of our domestic Commercial Vehicle Products business. Several factors, including higher energy costs, have reduced disposable income, leading to more conservative spending by U.S. consumers on major discretionary purchases. In addition, a slump in the housing market and increased competition from other types of consumer goods (such as electronics) have led to lower demand for our products. Raw Material Costs In many of our businesses, we enjoy a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that our competitors generally do not have. Still, our costs can change significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. Purchasing arrangements vary across the company. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly our raw material costs generally move with the market. In certain of our businesses, we have longer term purchase contracts with pricing terms that provide stability under reasonable market conditions. However, when commodities experience extreme inflation, vendors do not always honor those contracts. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. We have few long term, fixed pricing contracts with customers. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Although we are generally able to pass through most cost increases, we encounter greater difficulty (i) in businesses where we have a smaller market share, and (ii) in products that are of a commodity nature. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) negatively impacts our earnings. Steel is our principal raw material and at various times during the past three years we have experienced cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers via selling price adjustments. In late 2007, once again we began seeing higher steel costs which are continuing into early 2008. Since early December, market prices have increased from 15% to 30%, depending on the type of steel. We have announced price increases to recover some of these higher costs. We also experienced significant inflation in foam scrap, chemicals, fibers, and resins during the past three years, but recovered most of the higher costs through selling price increases. During 2007 the cost of foam scrap declined from peak levels, resulting in lower selling prices in our carpet underlay business. When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We experienced this de contenting effect in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments in recent years, as our customers changed the quantity and mix of components in their finished goods to address steel and chemical inflation. Our profit margins were negatively impacted as a result of this de contenting. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of innersprings) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Some of these new products were introduced during 2007. 27 Table of Contents Competition Many of our markets are highly competitive, with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. We believe we gain competitive advantage in our global markets through low cost operations, significant internal production of key raw materials, superior manufacturing expertise and product innovation, higher quality products, extensive customer service capabilities, and greater financial strength. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering product quality, innovation, and customer service. We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. At the end of 2007, Leggett operated 12 facilities in China. In recent years, we experienced increased price competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. We reacted to this competition by selectively adjusting prices, and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. The increased price competition for bedding components is partially due to lower wire costs in China. Asian manufacturers currently benefit from cost advantages for commodities such as steel and chemicals. Foreign manufacturers also benefit from lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. We believe innersprings are being imported into the U.S. at low prices that violate our trade laws, and also are frequently imported under improper tariff classifications, thus avoiding duties. In late 2007 we filed an anti dumping petition with the U.S. government on behalf of the innerspring industry to attempt to remedy this situation. Divestiture In March 2007, we completed the divestiture of our Prime Foam operations, which primarily produced commodity foam used for cushioning by upholstered furniture and bedding manufacturers. We retained our foam operations that produce carpet underlay. With 2006 revenue of approximately $200 million, this divestiture is the largest in Leggetts history. Asset Impairments and Restructuring During 2007, we recognized $305 million of net impairment and restructuring related charges, the vast majority of which were non cash items incurred following the implementation of the strategic plan announced in November (and discussed earlier in this MD&A). Of these charges, approximately $138 million were associated with the planned divestitures included in discontinued operations. The remaining $167 million relates to continuing operations and includes $143 million of goodwill impairment in the Fixture & Display business. The table below provides more detail regarding the 2007 net charges. In 2008, we expect an additional $15 to $25 million of costs associated with the strategic plan. Millions of dollars Amount Cash Non Cash Restructuring charges $ 3 Goodwill impairment charges 243 Other asset impairment charges 34 Inventory obsolescence and other costs 7 2007 costs related to the Strategic Plan $ 287 $ 3 $ 284 Other restructuring related costs in 2007 27 12 15 Gains from sales of assets in 2007 (9 ) (9 ) 2007 net costs $ 305 $ 6 $ 299 28 Table of Contents In the third quarter of 2005, we launched a significant broad based restructuring project to reduce excess capacity and improve performance in a number of our businesses. That restructuring was essentially completed in 2006. As part of the restructuring plan, we identified 36 underutilized or underperforming facilities that were subsequently closed, consolidated, or sold. We also took a more critical look at other underperforming operations; as a result, we modified or accelerated restructuring activities that were previously underway, and identified other operations with impaired assets. Net costs recognized in 2005 and 2006 for all restructuring related activities were $55 million and $12 million, respectively. We provide additional details about asset impairment and restructuring in Notes C and D on pages 68 and 69, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2007 vs. 2006 During 2007, sales from continuing operations decreased slightly. We reported a full year net loss of $.06 per share due to non cash charges following the implementation of the strategic plan announced in November. Operationally, 2007 earnings reflected ongoing soft demand in the U.S. residential markets. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2007, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes: (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 4,333 Acquisition sales growth 119 2.7 % Small divestitures (27 ) (0.6 )% Internal sales decline (119 ) (2.7 )% Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 4,306 (0.6 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 236 Goodwill impairment in Fixture & Display (120 ) Asset impairment (5 ) Higher restructuring related charges (5 ) Tax items (24 ) Other factors including lower internal sales and higher legal reserves, partially offset by earnings from recent acquisitions (31 ) Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 51 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2006 $ 1.26 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2007 $ 0.28 During 2007, sales from continuing operations decreased slightly, with acquisition growth (net of small divestitures) more than offset by lower internal sales (i.e. excluding acquisitions and divestitures). We experienced soft demand throughout 2007 in the U.S. home related and retail markets that we serve, but these declines were partially offset by strength in most of our international markets and the non dealer portion of the domestic Commercial Vehicle Products business. These trends are discussed in the segment results below. Full year earnings from continuing operations of $.28 per share were significantly lower than the prior year, primarily due to the non cash charges and tax items, but also from weak demand in many of our domestic markets. The tax items include, in 2007, adjustments to valuation allowances related to potential foreign tax benefits, and in 2006, a benefit from the write off of an acquired companys stock. 29 Table of Contents Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2007 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. Reported amounts for 2006 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect only continuing operations and also to reflect an organizational change that moved a few small formed wire operations from Commercial Fixturing & Components to Industrial Materials. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note O to the financial statements on page 92. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 2,310 $ 161 7.0 % Year ended December 31, 2006 2,425 229 9.4 % Decrease $ (115 ) $ (68 ) % decrease (5 )% (30 )% Internal sales decline (7 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 2 % Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2007, reflecting lower internal sales. Acquisitions (net of two small divestitures) partially offset the decline. The sales decrease is primarily due to soft demand in the U.S. residential markets during 2007 and very strong sales in our carpet underlay business during 2006. International demand for both bedding and upholstered furniture components was considerably stronger, and partially offset the domestic sales declines. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2006 due to several factors: Lower internal sales Increased legal reserves ($4 million) Higher asset impairment and restructuring related charges ($17 million in 2007 vs. $14 million in 2006) These factors were partially offset by earnings from recent acquisitions. Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 837 $ (104 ) (12.4 )% Year ended December 31, 2006 861 60 7.0 % Decrease $ (24 ) $ (164 ) % decrease (3 )% (273 )% Internal sales decline (3 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2007, primarily due to lower Store Fixtures volume and our decision to walk away from sales with unacceptable margins, but also from slightly lower demand for office furniture components. EBIT and EBIT margins were significantly lower than 2006, primarily due to a large, non cash goodwill impairment charge. The major factors impacting EBIT were: Goodwill impairment ($143 million) Higher asset impairment and restructuring related charges ($14 million in 2007 vs. $3 million in 2006) Lower internal sales These items were partially offset by gains from the sales of assets ($8 million). 30 Table of Contents Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 776 $ 55 7.1 % Year ended December 31, 2006 784 55 7.0 % Increase (decrease) $ (8 ) $ % increase (decrease) (1 )% 0 % Internal sales decline (3 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 2 % Internal sales declined during the year, but this decrease was mostly offset by acquisitions (net of small divestitures). Continued softness in the U.S. residential markets led to lower unit volume in our wire operations, but this decline was partially offset by inflation related sales growth (from price increases we implemented to recover higher raw material costs). EBIT and EBIT margins were flat with the prior year, as the impact of lower sales was offset by earnings from an acquired business. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 715 $ 65 9.1 % Year ended December 31, 2006 621 43 6.9 % Increase $ 94 $ 22 % increase 15 % 51 % Internal sales growth 11 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 4 % Strong sales increases in 2007 reflected world wide growth in our automotive business, and continued solid performance in the non dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products. Acquisitions (net of a small divestiture) also contributed to higher sales during the year. EBIT and EBIT margins improved significantly, reflecting higher sales in the segment and earnings from a company acquired early in 2007. These gains were partially offset as the strength of the Canadian dollar negatively impacted our Automotive business (we incur costs in Canadian dollars and sell in U.S. dollars). Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, declined $127 million, from $65 million in 2006 to a loss of $62 million in 2007. The earnings decline was primarily due to: Higher asset impairments and restructuring related charges (of $116 million) Non recurrence of the 2006 reimbursement of a duty on Canadian lumber imports (of $10 million) Softer demand, lower capacity utilization, and manufacturing inefficiencies in certain operations These items were partially offset by a tax benefit (of $30 million) associated with a difference in book and tax basis of an acquired companys stock as a result of reaching held for sale status. 31 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2006 vs. 2005 During 2006, sales from continuing operations grew 2%. Earnings also increased due to several factors, including lower restructuring related expenses and the absence of 2005s higher workers compensation costs. We also realized benefits from the 2005 restructuring initiative, as expected, in the latter part of the year. Further details about these items and our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2006, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes: Amount % (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 4,257 Acquisition sales growth 197 4.6 % Restructuring related closures & divestitures (92 ) (2.2 )% Internal sales decline (29 ) (0.7 )% Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 4,333 1.7 % Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 218 Lower restructuring related charges 22 Lower workers compensation expense 14 Other factors including restructuring benefits and income from acquisitions, offset by product mix, price competition, and higher interest expense (18 ) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 236 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2005 $ 1.13 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2006 $ 1.26 During 2006, acquisitions contributed all of the full year sales growth, and were partially offset by slightly lower internal sales and declines from restructuring and divestitures. The restructuring related sales decrease occurred as we chose to walk away from business that was marginally profitable, or in some instances, unprofitable. Internal sales declines reflect lower volume in certain businesses partially offset by inflation related sales growth (from price increases we implemented to recover higher raw material costs). In the North American bedding market, volume was weak for most of the year and softened further beginning in September. Automotive demand, and to a lesser extent, custom store fixture demand was also soft for most of the year. In contrast, our residential furniture components, office furniture components, machinery, and carpet underlay businesses performed very well. These trends are discussed in the segment results below. Net earnings and earnings per share increased versus 2005 primarily due to lower restructuring related charges and lower workers compensation expense. In 2005, we significantly increased our reserves for workers compensation to reflect higher costs of medical care and longer durations of claims. Workers compensation costs returned to normal levels in 2006. Earnings also benefited in 2006 from restructuring related operating improvements and acquisitions. A lower share count drove a portion of the increase in earnings per share. These earnings improvements were partially offset by: Product mix: Higher raw material costs in recent years have led some customers to modify their product design and replace higher cost components with lower cost (and lower margin) components. 32 Table of Contents Price competition: In 2006, we experienced price competition in certain markets, and we responded by selectively reducing prices of certain of our products. Higher net interest expense ($5 million) Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2006 sales and EBIT from continuing operations for each of our segments. Reported amounts for 2006 and 2005 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect only continuing operations and also to reflect an organizational change that moved a few small formed wire operations from Commercial Fixturing & Components to Industrial Materials. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note O to the financial statements on page 92. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 2,425 $ 229 9.4 % Year ended December 31, 2005 2,298 158 6.9 % Increase $ 127 $ 71 % increase 6 % 45 % Internal sales growth 1 % Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) 5 % Residential Furnishings sales increased in 2006, primarily from acquisitions. Internal sales grew slightly during the year, mainly due to inflation in our carpet underlay business and unit growth in upholstered furniture components. However, weak demand and price competition in the U.S. bedding market, in addition to de contenting by some of our customers (those who have chosen to replace higher cost components with lower cost components) has offset much of the internal sales gains. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 due to several factors: Lower restructuring related charges, net of gains from asset sales ($7 million) Lower workers compensation expense ($11 million) Operational benefits from the restructuring Improved market conditions in our carpet underlay businesses Income from acquisitions These improvements were partially offset by lower bedding volume, increased price competition, and higher energy and transportation costs. We aggressively protected our bedding market share during 2006 as we dealt with price competition and de contenting by our customers. 33 Table of Contents Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 861 $ 60 7.0 % Year ended December 31, 2005 886 34 3.9 % Increase (decrease) $ (25 ) $ 26 % increase (decrease) (3 )% 76 % Internal sales decline (1 )% Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) (2 )% Sales decreased in 2006 from a combination of lower unit volume and the impact, as expected, of restructuring activity. Demand for custom fixtures and displays softened in the latter part of the year, but this decrease was partially offset by continued growth in our businesses supplying office furniture components. Despite lower sales, EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 primarily due to: Lower restructuring related charges, net of gains from asset sales ($13 million) Lower workers compensation expense ($5 million) Operational benefits from the restructuring Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 784 $ 55 7.0 % Year ended December 31, 2005 886 103 11.8 % Decrease $ (102 ) $ (48 ) % decrease (11 )% (47 %) Internal sales decline (10 )% Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) (1 )% Internal sales were down for the year due, in roughly equal parts, to deflation and lower unit volumes. Volume declines resulted primarily from continued weakness in U.S. bedding demand (which impacts our wire operations) and lower production levels in the automotive industry (which impacts our tubing businesses). EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2005 largely from reduced sales, lower profitability at the rod mill, and higher raw material costs. Lower restructuring related expenses ($4 million), lower workers compensation costs ($3 million), and restructuring benefits offset some of this decline. In 2005, segment margins were above our long range, targeted levels mainly due to unusual market conditions that resulted in unsustainably high margins on our rod production. In 2006, the market began returning to more normal levels. 34 Table of Contents Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 621 $ 43 6.9 % Year ended December 31, 2005 610 31 5.1 % Increase $ 11 $ 12 % increase 2 % 39 % Internal sales decline (2 )% Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) 4 % Sales grew in 2006 as a result of acquisitions completed in late 2005, but this growth was partially offset by slightly lower internal sales. In our automotive business, market weakness in North America, particularly in larger vehicles that contain more seats with higher end features, was partially offset by growth in Asia and Europe. Machinery volume was stronger in 2006, reflecting improved demand for bedding related equipment in certain international markets. In the Commercial Vehicle Products business, demand for fleet van interiors (racks, shelving, and cabinets installed in service vans) also improved in 2006. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 in part due to: Lower restructuring related costs ($6 million) Earnings from acquired companies Lower workers compensation expense ($2 million) Operational benefits from the restructuring Currency factors ($6 million) offset some of these gains. Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $32 million, from $33 million in 2005 to $65 million in 2006. The earnings improvement was primarily due to: Improved market conditions in the Prime Foam and Fibers businesses Reimbursement of a duty on Canadian lumber imports (of $10 million) Lower restructuring related costs (of $9 million) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details, reflecting both continuing and discontinued operations, about our: Uses of cash Cash from operations Debt position and total capitalization We use cash for the following: Finance capital requirements (e.g. productivity, growth, acquisitions) Pay dividends Repurchase our stock Our operations provide much of the cash we require. Over the prior three year period, we also increased net debt to fund a portion of our requirements. In keeping with our stated financial goals, net debt to net capital has increased from 21.9% at the beginning of 2005 to 28.0% at the end of 2007. Our long term target is to have net debt as a percent of net capital in the 30% 40% range, while maintaining our longstanding single A debt rating. The table on page 40 shows the calculation of net debt as a percent of net capital for the past two years. 35 Table of Contents Uses of Cash Finance Capital Requirements We use cash to fund internal growth through capital expenditures and external growth through acquisitions. For the next two years, we plan to focus primarily on improving returns of the existing asset base. That pursuit will require much of senior managements time and attention, and revenue growth during this period is expected to be minimal. Capital expenditures are investments we make to modernize, maintain, and expand manufacturing capacity. With our move to role based portfolio management, we expect to be more restrictive in funding capital projects. Accordingly, we expect future capital spending to be less than in recent years. Capital spending in 2008 is expected to be about $135 million. Growth capital, which has historically been available to all our businesses, will now be predominantly earmarked for our growth business units. Operations that are a part of our core business units will receive capital primarily for productivity enhancements, but expansion capital will be limited. 36 Table of Contents We have also set a higher bar for acquisitions, and do not anticipate many coming to fruition over the next one to two years. Longer term, we plan to pursue disciplined growth through fewer, but more strategic, opportunities. We will seek acquisitions within our growth businesses, and will also look for longer term opportunities to enter new, higher growth markets that meet strict criteria. In 2007, we acquired three businesses that should add about $100 million to annual revenue ($20 million in Commercial Fixturing & Components, $50 million in Industrial Materials, and $30 million in Specialized Products). These businesses: establish a foothold in Asian production of office chair controls manufacture coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers, and present Leggett with expanded technologies and cross segment selling opportunities broaden our suite of products for commercial vehicle interiors We acquired five businesses in 2006 with annualized sales of about $75 million. All these transactions occurred in the Residential Furnishings segment. These acquisitions: broadened our geographic presence and product offerings in geo components expanded our rubber carpet underlay business added to our international spring operations In 2005, we acquired 12 companies with annualized sales (in continuing operations) of approximately $240 million ($170 million in Residential Furnishings and $70 million in Specialized Products). These businesses primarily: Expanded our presence in the conversion and distribution of geo components Broadened our offerings for carpet underlay Added to our business that manufactures and installs products for commercial vehicles In addition to the initial cash outlays for acquisitions (shown in the accompanying chart), we also assumed debt of $35 million, $5 million, and $24 million, respectively in the 2005, 2006, and 2007 transactions. We provide additional details about acquisitions in Note G to the financial statements on page 75. Pay Dividends With improvement in returns, the expected decrease in capital spending and acquisitions, and the planned divestitures, we should have more available cash to return to shareholders. Higher annual dividends are one means by which that will occur. With the January 2008 $.25 dividend payment, we have now raised annual dividends for 37 consecutive years at a compound annual rate of over 14%. We expect to spend approximately $165 million on dividends in 2008. Long term, our targeted dividend payout is approximately 50 60% of net earnings, but will likely be higher for the next two years. 37 Table of Contents Repurchase Stock Share repurchases are the other means by which we return cash to shareholders. During the past three years, we purchased a total of 27 million shares of our stock and reduced outstanding shares by about 12%. The cash available to repurchase shares will fluctuate each year, primarily from changes in earnings, timing of divestitures, and the pace of spending on acquisitions. Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have a standing authorization from the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 10 million shares annually. In addition to the standing authorization, the Board has approved the repurchase of up to an additional 20 million shares in 2008 at managements discretion, limited to the amount of divestiture proceeds. Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Changes in earnings and working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. In 2007, cash from operations increased 28% from 2006, as significant working capital improvements offset lower earnings. The working capital improvements resulted primarily from better accounts receivable collections and ongoing efforts to manage inventories. 38 Table of Contents In 2006, cash from operations increased 7% over 2005. Earnings grew in 2006, but were partially offset by increased working capital due to higher inventories. This inventory increase resulted primarily from softening demand in certain markets and opportunistic pre buys of raw materials. Working capital levels vary by segment, with the requirements of Commercial Fixturing & Components generally higher than overall company averages. Accounts receivable balances in this segment are typically higher due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Fixture & Display business. This business also requires higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of its products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. In the December 31, 2007 balance sheet, we have classified certain assets and liabilities of the planned divestitures as amounts held for sale. Depreciation and amortization are no longer recognized on these assets; accordingly, we anticipate that the 2008 depreciation and amortization expense will be approximately $35 million lower than 2007. Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 796 $ 906 $ 922 Average interest rates * 4.9 % 5.0 % 5.0 % Average maturities in years * 6.8 7.4 7.8 Revolving credit/commercial paper 205 154 Total long term debt 1,001 1,060 922 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 139 163 156 Shareholders equity 2,133 2,351 2,249 Total capitalization $ 3,273 $ 3,574 $ 3,327 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 395 $ 246 $ 400 Short term Total unused committed credit $ 395 $ 246 $ 400 Current maturities of long term debt $ 89 $ 52 $ 99 Cash and cash equivalents $ 205 $ 132 $ 65 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges ** 2.5 x 5.0 x 5.9 x * These calculations include current maturities but exclude commercial paper. ** Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, and implied interest included in operating leases. 39 Table of Contents The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2007 and 2006. We show this calculation in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization, each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows more meaningful comparison to recent periods during which cash fluctuated significantly. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2007 2006 Long term debt $ 1,001 $ 1,060 Current debt maturities 89 52 Cash and cash equivalents (205 ) (132 ) Net debt $ 885 $ 980 Total capitalization $ 3,273 $ 3,574 Current debt maturities 89 52 Cash and cash equivalents (205 ) (132 ) Net capitalization $ 3,157 $ 3,494 Long term debt to total capitalization 30.6 % 29.7 % Net debt to net capitalization 28.0 % 28.0 % Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) decreased $22 million in 2007. During the year, we added $64 million of debt, including $51 million of commercial paper borrowings, and repaid $86 million of debt that came due. Since 2003, weve issued $730 million of fixed rate debt with an average remaining life at the end of 2007 of 7.5 years, and a weighted average interest rate of 4.7%. To further facilitate the issuance of debt and other securities, $300 million remains available under a shelf registration. In addition to issuing long term notes, we can also raise cash by issuing up to $600 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $600 million revolving credit commitment that terminates in 2012. We expect any commercial paper issued under this agreement to be classified as long term debt since we intend to maintain or increase the balance until it is replaced with long term notes. At the end of 2007, $205 million in commercial paper was outstanding under this program. With both the shelf registration and the commercial paper program in place, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations, return cash to shareholders, and fund planned growth. Most of our debt has fixed repayment dates. At the end of 2007, this debt consisted primarily of term notes. We have maintained a single A rating (from both Moodys and Standard & Poors) on our term notes and public debt for over a decade. Our commercial paper program carries a Moodys rating of P 1 and a Standard & Poors rating of A 1. This discussion is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the companys public debt. Furthermore, these ratings are subject to revision and withdrawal at any time, and each should be evaluated separately. 40 Table of Contents CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual obligations and commitments: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total LessThan 1Year 1 3Years 3 5Years MoreThan 5Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt* $ 1,074 $ 79 $ 25 $ 207 $ 763 Capitalized leases 15 10 5 Operating leases 148 42 57 32 17 Purchase obligations** 403 403 Interest payments *** 309 53 86 72 98 Deferred income taxes 42 42 Other obligations (including pensions and reserves for tax contingencies) 96 7 13 9 67 Total contractual cash obligations $ 2,087 $ 594 $ 186 $ 320 $ 987 * The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. Long term debt includes $205 million of outstanding commercial paper, which is generally due overnight. We have classified commercial paper as long term debt (due in 3 5 years) since the commercial paper program is supported by a $600 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. ** Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. *** Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 at rates in effect at the end of the year. These totals include interest on the $205 million of outstanding commercial paper discussed above. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur. Critical accounting estimates are those that are: a) subject to uncertainty and change, and b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed here are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements: Asset and goodwill impairment Inventory Workers compensation, general liability, and employee benefit programs Credit losses Pension accounting Income taxes Contingencies We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the financial statements on page 60. 41 Table of Contents Asset and Goodwill Impairment Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, and as triggering events occur. Other long lived assets are tested for recoverability whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The assessments are performed to ensure that future cash flows (from use of the assets) exceed the assets book value. In doing so, we make judgments and estimates about: a) the future cash flows expected from use (and eventual disposition) of the assets, and b) the assets fair market values. If actual future cash flows are lower than our estimates, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. Our ten reporting units for goodwill purposes (related to continuing operations) are one level below our operating segments, and are the same as the business groups disclosed in Item 1. Business. We assess our reporting units for possible goodwill impairment on an annual basis and whenever events warrant. In doing so, we estimate the fair market values of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow model and comparable market values for similar entities using price to earnings ratios. Key assumptions and estimates used in the cash flow model include discount rate, internal sales growth, margins, capital expenditure requirements, and working capital requirements. Recent performance of the reporting unit is an important factor, but not the only factor, in our assessment. In June 2007, we performed the annual goodwill impairment review and determined that no impairments were indicated for any reporting units. In the fourth quarter 2007, we performed an interim goodwill impairment review as a result of the November Strategic Plan which was considered a triggering event as defined in FAS 142. The fair value of each reporting unit was adjusted to reflect the significant decrease in the Companys overall market value since June. In addition, individual reporting units impacted by the November Strategic Plan were revised to reflect updated margin and growth assumptions. As a result of this interim review, we determined that impairments were indicated for the Aluminum and Fixtures & Display reporting units, resulting in goodwill impairments of $83 million and $143 million, respectively. In addition, we recorded goodwill and asset impairments of $51 million in the fourth quarter 2007 relating to other held for sale locations. Inventory In determining the value of inventories, we make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow moving (i.e. not selling very quickly). If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to have no value. If we have more than a one years supply of a product, we value that inventory at net realizable value (what we think we will recover). At December 31, 2007, we had reduced inventory values by $43 million (approximately 6% of total inventory not held for sale valued on a FIFO basis) to account for obsolete and slow moving items. Workers Compensation, General Liability, and Employee Benefit Programs We are substantially self insured for certain costs related to workers compensation, automobile, product and general liability, property, and medical insurance. When estimating the potential amounts we might have to pay (since we are self insured), we consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. In 2005, we significantly increased our reserve for workers compensation to reflect higher costs of medical care and longer durations of claims (as more treatment options are available and can continue over longer periods of time). Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $27 million annually for costs associated with these insurance programs. Average year to year variation over the past five years has been approximately $3 million. At December 31, 2007, we had accrued $72 million to cover future self insurance liabilities. 42 Table of Contents Credit Losses Our customers are diverse. Many are small to medium sized companies, and some are highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning. We regularly evaluate the ability of our customers to pay what they owe us. When we become aware of a specific customers potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible. We consider factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical experience. The total amount of credit losses over the last three years is $19 million. At December 31, 2007, our reserves for doubtful accounts not held for sale totaled $23 million (about 3.4% of our accounts and notes receivable of $685 million). Pension Accounting For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations. The two most critical assumptions affecting these estimates are the discount rate and the expected return on assets. Other assumptions include rates of compensation increases, withdrawal and mortality rates, and retirement ages. These estimates impact the pension expense or income we recognize and our reported benefit obligations. We have recognized the impact of individual plans funded amounts on the balance sheet, and continue to use a September 30 measurement date for our most significant plans. To reflect market interest rates, in 2007 we increased the discount rate for our major pension plans from 5.75% to 6.0%. This follows an increase in 2006 from 5.5% to 5.75%. We continued to assume long term returns of 8.0% on the assets of these plans, which was identical to our 2006 and 2005 assumptions. Sensitivity to changes in the critical assumptions for our major plans is as follows: Discount rate: a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $.3 million and decrease the plans funded status by approximately $5 million. Expected return on assets: a 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.5 million, but have no effect on the plans funded status. We expect that the combined contribution in 2008 to our defined benefit plans will total approximately $2 million. On December 31, 2006, our defined benefit Retirement Plan covering non union employees was frozen, thereby eliminating the future accrual of benefits to participants and closing the plan to future enrollment. This plan change reduced the projected benefit obligation by $12 million, and reduced 2007 pension expense by $4 million. Participants were moved to a defined contribution plan with a company contribution based upon the age of the participant. Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. At December 31, 2007, five open years were undergoing (or subject to) audit by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Canada Revenue Agency. In 2005, audits in both countries for the years 2000 and 43 Table of Contents 2001 were settled in all material respects with no significant adjustments. In 2006, the IRS examination for the years 2002 and 2003 was concluded. A final report was issued, and the net refund of approximately $11 million, plus interest, under review by the Joint Committee on Taxation as of December 31, 2006, was received in 2007. The largest issue pertained to a refund claim we made for a worthless stock deduction. The resolution of this item was reflected in 2006 as a reduction in the Companys overall tax rate. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had $25 million and $38 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Valuation reserves are established against future potential tax benefits to reflect the amounts that we believe have no more than a 50% probability of being realized. In addition, assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of such earnings. Contingencies Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. The Company has been named as one of numerous defendants in several cases consolidated as Gray v. Derderian, Case No. 1:04 CV 312 L, U.S.D.C. R.I. This litigation resulted from a nightclub fire in West Warwick, Rhode Island involving multiple deaths and injuries. Along with other foam manufacturing defendants, the Company is alleged to have manufactured and sold bulk polyurethane foam to a foam fabricator in Rhode Island, who in turn, is alleged to have fabricated and sold foam sheets to the nightclub. The foam was among other materials alleged to have caught fire when pyrotechnics were ignited inside the nightclub. The plaintiffs are seeking monetary damages in an unspecified amount. The litigation is in its early stages. We believe the Company has raised valid defenses to the claims. We intend to continue vigorously defending these claims. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss that may arise from this litigation. However, the Companys insurance coverages (including a $2 million self retention amount) are sufficient to satisfy the latest settlement demand. Management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operation. In 2005, we recorded a receivable of $5 million related to an ongoing international dispute over duties imposed by the United States on softwood lumber imported from Canada. In 2006 the U.S. and Canada finalized an agreement to settle this dispute and as a result, we were refunded $21 million in duties and interest for our claim. The refund was recorded as income ($16 million in 2006 and $5 million in 2005) and is reflected in earnings from discontinued operations. Since this claim is now settled, we do not anticipate any further payments. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.158 (SFAS 158), Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. SFAS 158 requires the Company to recognize the funded status of each of its defined benefit postretirement plans as an asset or liability on the balance sheet. This requirement was effective as of December 31, 2006, and is reflected in the accompanying financial statements. SFAS 158 will also require the Company to measure the funded status of its plans as of year end beginning with the December 31, 2008 balance sheet. The Company currently uses September 30 as the measurement date for its most significant plans. The Company has chosen to perform a measurement that covers the 15 month period of October 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008. A proportionate allocation is made to cover the net benefit expense or income for the transition period and that amount will be recorded as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings on January 1, 44 Table of Contents 2008. The Company has evaluated the effect of this standard and determined that it will not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities and requires additional disclosure about the use of fair value measures, the information used to measure fair value, and the effect fair value measurements have on earnings. The primary areas in which the Company utilizes fair value measures are valuing pension plan assets and liabilities, valuing hedge related derivative financial instruments, allocating purchase price to the assets and liabilities of acquired companies, and evaluating long term assets for potential impairment. SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for financial assets and liabilities of the Company beginning January 1, 2008. SFAS 157 is effective beginning January 1, 2009 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. The Company has evaluated the effect of this standard and does not believe that it will have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other instruments at fair value, with the objective of improving financial reporting by providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. SFAS 159 is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2008. The Company has evaluated the effect of this standard and determined that it will not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (R), Business Combinations, which replaces SFAS 141. The new standard requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction and establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed. SFAS 141 (R) is effective on a prospective basis for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009, with the exception of the accounting for valuation allowances on deferred taxes, and acquired tax contingencies. SFAS 141 (R) amends SFAS 109 such that adjustments made to valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies associated with acquisitions that closed prior to the effective date of SFAS 141 (R) would also apply the provisions of SFAS 141 (R). The adoption of SFAS 141 (R) is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, which seeks to improve the relevance, comparability, and transparency of financial information provided to investors by requiring all entities to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries in the same way as equity in their consolidated financial statements. SFAS 160 is also effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009, and its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) INTEREST RATES The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars. (See discussion of Net Investment Hedges provided in Note R on page 97 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $19.9 at December 31, 2007, and less than its 45 Table of Contents carrying value by $43.5 at December 31, 2006. The fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using the U.S. Treasury Bond rate as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs under its medium term note program. A 50 basis point increase in the interest rate would result in an additional $20.8 reduction in the fair value of fixed rate debt. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Scheduled Maturity Date Long term debt as of December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter 2007 2006 Principal fixed rate debt $ 71.5 $ 15.0 $ 730.0 $ 816.5 $ 846.7 Average interest rate 6.31 % 7.26 % 4.72 % 4.91 % 4.99 % Principal variable rate debt $ .5 $ .5 $ 8.5 $ .5 $ .5 $ 21.5 $ 32.0 $ 73.1 Average interest rate 3.72 % 3.72 % 3.51 % 3.72 % 3.72 % 3.60 % 3.58 % 3.91 % Miscellaneous debt* $ 240.8 $ 192.2 Total debt $ 1,089.3 $ 1,112.0 Less: current maturities $ (88.7 ) $ (52.0 ) Total long term debt $ 1,000.6 $ 1,060.0 * Includes $205 and $154 of commercial paper in 2007 and 2006, respectively, supported by a $600 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It is the Companys policy not to speculate in derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in Note R on page 97 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. INVESTMENT IN FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment and does not hedge translation exposures, except for the net investment hedge discussed in Note R on page 97 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, subject to translation exposure at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2007 2006 Canadian Dollar $ 301.4 $ 316.9 European Currencies 328.5 299.5 Mexican Peso 87.7 79.8 Chinese Renminbi 125.8 115.7 Other 70.7 65.9 Total $ 914.1 $ 877.8 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. 2007 HIGHLIGHTS We changed strategic course in 2007. During the year we completed an extensive strategic review of our business portfolio. We realigned our goals to focus on improving total shareholder return. We adopted role based portfolio management (with different roles for each business unit based upon competitive advantages, strategic position, and financial health) and implemented a much more rigorous strategic planning process. We also began eliminating or rapidly improving the parts of our business that have been weighing us down. Many of the planned divestitures and necessary operating improvements should occur during 2008. As a result of these changes, we expect to generate significant amounts of cash, spend less cash than in recent years, and return more cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. In support of this objective, the Board of Directors authorized a 39% increase to the annual dividend, beginning in January 2008. The Board also approved, in February 2008, the repurchase of up to 20 million shares during 2008 at managements discretion, limited to the amount of divestiture proceeds. This authorization is in addition to a standing approval to repurchase 10 million shares each year. Sales and earnings of our ongoing businesses declined in 2007 as demand in many U.S. markets softened. International markets were generally stronger, and growth in our international businesses offset some of the domestic weakness. In addition, we recognized significant, non cash goodwill and asset impairment charges in late 2007 following the implementation of the strategic plan. These charges represent virtually all of the costs we anticipate for the strategic plan. Cash from operations increased significantly in 2007 despite generally weak market conditions. This strong cash from operations coupled with the proceeds from the divestiture of our prime foam business (early in the year) resulted in significant available funds. A portion of these funds was used for capital expenditures and acquisitions, and much of the remainder was returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The balance sheet remains very strong; we ended the year with net debt (as a percentage of net capital) slightly below our long term, targeted range. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. INTRODUCTION What We Do Leggett & Platt is a FORTUNE 500 diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs, and produces a wide range of engineered components and products found in many homes, retail stores, offices, and automobiles. We make components that are often hidden within, but integral to, our customers products. We are North Americas leading independent manufacturer of components for residential furniture and bedding, adjustable beds, carpet underlay, retail store fixtures and point of purchase displays, components for office furniture, drawn steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and machinery used by the bedding industry for wire forming, sewing, and quilting. Our Segments Our continuing operations are composed of 22 business units, with approximately 24,000 employee partners, and more than 250 facilities located in 20 countries around the world. Our segments are Residential Furnishings, Commercial Fixturing & Components, Industrial Materials, and Specialized Products. 24 Table of Contents Residential Furnishings This segment supplies a variety of components mainly used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. We also sell adjustable beds, bed frames, ornamental beds, carpet cushion, geo components, and other finished products. Commercial Fixturing & Components Operations in this segment manufacture and sell store fixtures and point of purchase displays used by retailers. We also produce chair controls, bases, and other components for office furniture manufacturers. Industrial Materials These operations primarily supply steel rod, drawn steel wire, and welded steel tubing to other Leggett operations and to external customers. Our wire and tubing is used to make bedding, furniture, automotive seats, retail store fixtures and displays, mechanical springs, and many other end products. Specialized Products From this segment we supply lumbar systems and wire components used by automotive seating manufacturers. We manufacture and install the racks, shelving, and cabinets used to outfit fleets of service vans. We also produce machinery, both for ourselves and for others, including bedding manufacturers. Discontinued Operations and Other Divestitures We divested our Prime Foam operations in early 2007 and expect to divest seven additional businesses during 2008. As a result of these activities, several businesses are disclosed in our year end financial statements as discontinued operations. Those businesses, listed according to the segment in which they previously resided, include: Aluminum Products: entire segment Residential Furnishings: Prime Foam (sold in March 2007), Fibers, and Wood Products Commercial Fixturing & Components: Storage Products and Plastics Specialized Products: Commercial Vehicle Products Dealer Unit We also plan to divest our Coated Fabrics business (which is a part of Residential Furnishings) in 2008, but that divestiture is in an early stage and does not yet qualify the business as a discontinued operation. 25 Table of Contents Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with no single one representing even 5% of our sales from continuing operations. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture and bedding, a variety of other manufacturers, and many major retailers. We primarily sell our products through our own sales employees, although we also use independent sales representatives and distributors in some of our businesses. Strategic Changes During 2007, we completed an extensive review of our business portfolio, triggered in part by our underperformance versus stated growth and operating targets. For each business unit, we considered factors such as competitive advantages, market position, financial performance, and potential growth opportunities. We are making significant changes to our financial targets, portfolio mix, and planning processes as a result of the review. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is now the key success measure that we will monitor. TSR is driven by the change in our share price and the dividends we pay [TSR (Change in Stock Price + Dividends Received) /Beginning Stock Price]. Historically, our primary objective was profitable growth. Going forward, we intend to generate higher TSR through a greater emphasis on improving returns and maximizing cash flow, with growth representing just one of several means to achieve that result. We are modifying our incentive plans to emphasize the importance of, and reward, TSR. Beginning in 2008, we introduced TSR based incentives for senior executives and modified business unit bonuses to include a link to return on assets. We are adopting role based portfolio management and plan to tilt our investments toward businesses with competitive advantages and financial health. Certain of our businesses (growth businesses) are positioned to generate value through further growth, while others (core businesses) are positioned to drive value by improving returns and maximizing cash flow. Both are critical drivers of TSR. We will allocate capital to each business unit (BU) based upon its role in the portfolio. We plan to invest aggressively in growth businesses that hold strong competitive positions and consistently achieve compelling returns on those investments. We plan to maintain or improve our competitive position in core businesses (that typically hold stable positions in solid markets where returns are somewhat lower) and focus on improving returns, but limit further investment in these operations. In total, we anticipate lower capital expenditures and fewer acquisitions in the near term. In addition, we are implementing a more rigorous strategic planning process to continually assess our business units and help guide future decisions regarding the role of each BU, capital allocation priorities, and new areas in which to grow. After significant study, we are narrowing our focus and eliminating over 20% of the portfolio based upon each BUs strategic value and financial returns. Most of this activity is expected to occur in 2008. The largest portion of the revenue reduction, approximately $900 million, will come from the divestiture of the Aluminum Products segment and six additional business units. Additionally, the Store Fixtures business unit was given a 12 month deadline by which to significantly improve performance; we expect to prune about $100 million of the units least profitable revenue. Finally, several business units, though otherwise healthy, contain individual plants that are operating at unacceptable profit levels. We expect to close or divest a number of these unprofitable facilities, resulting in a revenue reduction of approximately $200 million. We believe these changes will increase available cash, and we intend to return more of this cash to shareholders. In support of this objective, the Board of Directors authorized a 39% dividend increase, moving the annual rate to $1.00 per share (from the previous $.72). This increase was effective with the quarterly dividend paid in January 2008. We also expect to continue repurchasing our shares, and have a standing 10 million share annual authorization from the Board. In addition to the standing authorization, the Board has approved the repurchase of up to an additional 20 million shares during 2008 at managements discretion, limited to the amount of divestiture proceeds. Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are: market demand for our products, raw material cost trends, and competition. 26 Table of Contents Market Demand Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Throughout 2007, demand weakness in the U.S. home related and retail markets led to lower volume in certain of our businesses. In contrast, we saw strength in most international markets, including bedding, furniture, and automotive, as well as the non dealer portion of our domestic Commercial Vehicle Products business. Several factors, including higher energy costs, have reduced disposable income, leading to more conservative spending by U.S. consumers on major discretionary purchases. In addition, a slump in the housing market and increased competition from other types of consumer goods (such as electronics) have led to lower demand for our products. Raw Material Costs In many of our businesses, we enjoy a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that our competitors generally do not have. Still, our costs can change significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. Purchasing arrangements vary across the company. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly our raw material costs generally move with the market. In certain of our businesses, we have longer term purchase contracts with pricing terms that provide stability under reasonable market conditions. However, when commodities experience extreme inflation, vendors do not always honor those contracts. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. We have few long term, fixed pricing contracts with customers. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Although we are generally able to pass through most cost increases, we encounter greater difficulty (i) in businesses where we have a smaller market share, and (ii) in products that are of a commodity nature. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) negatively impacts our earnings. Steel is our principal raw material and at various times during the past three years we have experienced cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers via selling price adjustments. In late 2007, once again we began seeing higher steel costs which are continuing into early 2008. Since early December, market prices have increased from 15% to 30%, depending on the type of steel. We have announced price increases to recover some of these higher costs. We also experienced significant inflation in foam scrap, chemicals, fibers, and resins during the past three years, but recovered most of the higher costs through selling price increases. During 2007 the cost of foam scrap declined from peak levels, resulting in lower selling prices in our carpet underlay business. When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We experienced this de contenting effect in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments in recent years, as our customers changed the quantity and mix of components in their finished goods to address steel and chemical inflation. Our profit margins were negatively impacted as a result of this de contenting. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of innersprings) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Some of these new products were introduced during 2007. 27 Table of Contents Competition Many of our markets are highly competitive, with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. We believe we gain competitive advantage in our global markets through low cost operations, significant internal production of key raw materials, superior manufacturing expertise and product innovation, higher quality products, extensive customer service capabilities, and greater financial strength. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering product quality, innovation, and customer service. We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. At the end of 2007, Leggett operated 12 facilities in China. In recent years, we experienced increased price competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. We reacted to this competition by selectively adjusting prices, and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. The increased price competition for bedding components is partially due to lower wire costs in China. Asian manufacturers currently benefit from cost advantages for commodities such as steel and chemicals. Foreign manufacturers also benefit from lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. We believe innersprings are being imported into the U.S. at low prices that violate our trade laws, and also are frequently imported under improper tariff classifications, thus avoiding duties. In late 2007 we filed an anti dumping petition with the U.S. government on behalf of the innerspring industry to attempt to remedy this situation. Divestiture In March 2007, we completed the divestiture of our Prime Foam operations, which primarily produced commodity foam used for cushioning by upholstered furniture and bedding manufacturers. We retained our foam operations that produce carpet underlay. With 2006 revenue of approximately $200 million, this divestiture is the largest in Leggetts history. Asset Impairments and Restructuring During 2007, we recognized $305 million of net impairment and restructuring related charges, the vast majority of which were non cash items incurred following the implementation of the strategic plan announced in November (and discussed earlier in this MD&A). Of these charges, approximately $138 million were associated with the planned divestitures included in discontinued operations. The remaining $167 million relates to continuing operations and includes $143 million of goodwill impairment in the Fixture & Display business. The table below provides more detail regarding the 2007 net charges. In 2008, we expect an additional $15 to $25 million of costs associated with the strategic plan. Millions of dollars Amount Cash Non Cash Restructuring charges $ 3 Goodwill impairment charges 243 Other asset impairment charges 34 Inventory obsolescence and other costs 7 2007 costs related to the Strategic Plan $ 287 $ 3 $ 284 Other restructuring related costs in 2007 27 12 15 Gains from sales of assets in 2007 (9 ) (9 ) 2007 net costs $ 305 $ 6 $ 299 28 Table of Contents In the third quarter of 2005, we launched a significant broad based restructuring project to reduce excess capacity and improve performance in a number of our businesses. That restructuring was essentially completed in 2006. As part of the restructuring plan, we identified 36 underutilized or underperforming facilities that were subsequently closed, consolidated, or sold. We also took a more critical look at other underperforming operations; as a result, we modified or accelerated restructuring activities that were previously underway, and identified other operations with impaired assets. Net costs recognized in 2005 and 2006 for all restructuring related activities were $55 million and $12 million, respectively. We provide additional details about asset impairment and restructuring in Notes C and D on pages 68 and 69, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2007 vs. 2006 During 2007, sales from continuing operations decreased slightly. We reported a full year net loss of $.06 per share due to non cash charges following the implementation of the strategic plan announced in November. Operationally, 2007 earnings reflected ongoing soft demand in the U.S. residential markets. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2007, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes: (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 4,333 Acquisition sales growth 119 2.7 % Small divestitures (27 ) (0.6 )% Internal sales decline (119 ) (2.7 )% Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 4,306 (0.6 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 236 Goodwill impairment in Fixture & Display (120 ) Asset impairment (5 ) Higher restructuring related charges (5 ) Tax items (24 ) Other factors including lower internal sales and higher legal reserves, partially offset by earnings from recent acquisitions (31 ) Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 51 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2006 $ 1.26 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2007 $ 0.28 During 2007, sales from continuing operations decreased slightly, with acquisition growth (net of small divestitures) more than offset by lower internal sales (i.e. excluding acquisitions and divestitures). We experienced soft demand throughout 2007 in the U.S. home related and retail markets that we serve, but these declines were partially offset by strength in most of our international markets and the non dealer portion of the domestic Commercial Vehicle Products business. These trends are discussed in the segment results below. Full year earnings from continuing operations of $.28 per share were significantly lower than the prior year, primarily due to the non cash charges and tax items, but also from weak demand in many of our domestic markets. The tax items include, in 2007, adjustments to valuation allowances related to potential foreign tax benefits, and in 2006, a benefit from the write off of an acquired companys stock. 29 Table of Contents Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2007 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. Reported amounts for 2006 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect only continuing operations and also to reflect an organizational change that moved a few small formed wire operations from Commercial Fixturing & Components to Industrial Materials. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note O to the financial statements on page 92. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 2,310 $ 161 7.0 % Year ended December 31, 2006 2,425 229 9.4 % Decrease $ (115 ) $ (68 ) % decrease (5 )% (30 )% Internal sales decline (7 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 2 % Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2007, reflecting lower internal sales. Acquisitions (net of two small divestitures) partially offset the decline. The sales decrease is primarily due to soft demand in the U.S. residential markets during 2007 and very strong sales in our carpet underlay business during 2006. International demand for both bedding and upholstered furniture components was considerably stronger, and partially offset the domestic sales declines. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2006 due to several factors: Lower internal sales Increased legal reserves ($4 million) Higher asset impairment and restructuring related charges ($17 million in 2007 vs. $14 million in 2006) These factors were partially offset by earnings from recent acquisitions. Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 837 $ (104 ) (12.4 )% Year ended December 31, 2006 861 60 7.0 % Decrease $ (24 ) $ (164 ) % decrease (3 )% (273 )% Internal sales decline (3 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2007, primarily due to lower Store Fixtures volume and our decision to walk away from sales with unacceptable margins, but also from slightly lower demand for office furniture components. EBIT and EBIT margins were significantly lower than 2006, primarily due to a large, non cash goodwill impairment charge. The major factors impacting EBIT were: Goodwill impairment ($143 million) Higher asset impairment and restructuring related charges ($14 million in 2007 vs. $3 million in 2006) Lower internal sales These items were partially offset by gains from the sales of assets ($8 million). 30 Table of Contents Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 776 $ 55 7.1 % Year ended December 31, 2006 784 55 7.0 % Increase (decrease) $ (8 ) $ % increase (decrease) (1 )% 0 % Internal sales decline (3 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 2 % Internal sales declined during the year, but this decrease was mostly offset by acquisitions (net of small divestitures). Continued softness in the U.S. residential markets led to lower unit volume in our wire operations, but this decline was partially offset by inflation related sales growth (from price increases we implemented to recover higher raw material costs). EBIT and EBIT margins were flat with the prior year, as the impact of lower sales was offset by earnings from an acquired business. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 715 $ 65 9.1 % Year ended December 31, 2006 621 43 6.9 % Increase $ 94 $ 22 % increase 15 % 51 % Internal sales growth 11 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 4 % Strong sales increases in 2007 reflected world wide growth in our automotive business, and continued solid performance in the non dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products. Acquisitions (net of a small divestiture) also contributed to higher sales during the year. EBIT and EBIT margins improved significantly, reflecting higher sales in the segment and earnings from a company acquired early in 2007. These gains were partially offset as the strength of the Canadian dollar negatively impacted our Automotive business (we incur costs in Canadian dollars and sell in U.S. dollars). Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, declined $127 million, from $65 million in 2006 to a loss of $62 million in 2007. The earnings decline was primarily due to: Higher asset impairments and restructuring related charges (of $116 million) Non recurrence of the 2006 reimbursement of a duty on Canadian lumber imports (of $10 million) Softer demand, lower capacity utilization, and manufacturing inefficiencies in certain operations These items were partially offset by a tax benefit (of $30 million) associated with a difference in book and tax basis of an acquired companys stock as a result of reaching held for sale status. 31 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2006 vs. 2005 During 2006, sales from continuing operations grew 2%. Earnings also increased due to several factors, including lower restructuring related expenses and the absence of 2005s higher workers compensation costs. We also realized benefits from the 2005 restructuring initiative, as expected, in the latter part of the year. Further details about these items and our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2006, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes: Amount % (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 4,257 Acquisition sales growth 197 4.6 % Restructuring related closures & divestitures (92 ) (2.2 )% Internal sales decline (29 ) (0.7 )% Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 4,333 1.7 % Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2005 $ 218 Lower restructuring related charges 22 Lower workers compensation expense 14 Other factors including restructuring benefits and income from acquisitions, offset by product mix, price competition, and higher interest expense (18 ) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 236 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2005 $ 1.13 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2006 $ 1.26 During 2006, acquisitions contributed all of the full year sales growth, and were partially offset by slightly lower internal sales and declines from restructuring and divestitures. The restructuring related sales decrease occurred as we chose to walk away from business that was marginally profitable, or in some instances, unprofitable. Internal sales declines reflect lower volume in certain businesses partially offset by inflation related sales growth (from price increases we implemented to recover higher raw material costs). In the North American bedding market, volume was weak for most of the year and softened further beginning in September. Automotive demand, and to a lesser extent, custom store fixture demand was also soft for most of the year. In contrast, our residential furniture components, office furniture components, machinery, and carpet underlay businesses performed very well. These trends are discussed in the segment results below. Net earnings and earnings per share increased versus 2005 primarily due to lower restructuring related charges and lower workers compensation expense. In 2005, we significantly increased our reserves for workers compensation to reflect higher costs of medical care and longer durations of claims. Workers compensation costs returned to normal levels in 2006. Earnings also benefited in 2006 from restructuring related operating improvements and acquisitions. A lower share count drove a portion of the increase in earnings per share. These earnings improvements were partially offset by: Product mix: Higher raw material costs in recent years have led some customers to modify their product design and replace higher cost components with lower cost (and lower margin) components. 32 Table of Contents Price competition: In 2006, we experienced price competition in certain markets, and we responded by selectively reducing prices of certain of our products. Higher net interest expense ($5 million) Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2006 sales and EBIT from continuing operations for each of our segments. Reported amounts for 2006 and 2005 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect only continuing operations and also to reflect an organizational change that moved a few small formed wire operations from Commercial Fixturing & Components to Industrial Materials. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note O to the financial statements on page 92. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 2,425 $ 229 9.4 % Year ended December 31, 2005 2,298 158 6.9 % Increase $ 127 $ 71 % increase 6 % 45 % Internal sales growth 1 % Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) 5 % Residential Furnishings sales increased in 2006, primarily from acquisitions. Internal sales grew slightly during the year, mainly due to inflation in our carpet underlay business and unit growth in upholstered furniture components. However, weak demand and price competition in the U.S. bedding market, in addition to de contenting by some of our customers (those who have chosen to replace higher cost components with lower cost components) has offset much of the internal sales gains. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 due to several factors: Lower restructuring related charges, net of gains from asset sales ($7 million) Lower workers compensation expense ($11 million) Operational benefits from the restructuring Improved market conditions in our carpet underlay businesses Income from acquisitions These improvements were partially offset by lower bedding volume, increased price competition, and higher energy and transportation costs. We aggressively protected our bedding market share during 2006 as we dealt with price competition and de contenting by our customers. 33 Table of Contents Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 861 $ 60 7.0 % Year ended December 31, 2005 886 34 3.9 % Increase (decrease) $ (25 ) $ 26 % increase (decrease) (3 )% 76 % Internal sales decline (1 )% Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) (2 )% Sales decreased in 2006 from a combination of lower unit volume and the impact, as expected, of restructuring activity. Demand for custom fixtures and displays softened in the latter part of the year, but this decrease was partially offset by continued growth in our businesses supplying office furniture components. Despite lower sales, EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 primarily due to: Lower restructuring related charges, net of gains from asset sales ($13 million) Lower workers compensation expense ($5 million) Operational benefits from the restructuring Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 784 $ 55 7.0 % Year ended December 31, 2005 886 103 11.8 % Decrease $ (102 ) $ (48 ) % decrease (11 )% (47 %) Internal sales decline (10 )% Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) (1 )% Internal sales were down for the year due, in roughly equal parts, to deflation and lower unit volumes. Volume declines resulted primarily from continued weakness in U.S. bedding demand (which impacts our wire operations) and lower production levels in the automotive industry (which impacts our tubing businesses). EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2005 largely from reduced sales, lower profitability at the rod mill, and higher raw material costs. Lower restructuring related expenses ($4 million), lower workers compensation costs ($3 million), and restructuring benefits offset some of this decline. In 2005, segment margins were above our long range, targeted levels mainly due to unusual market conditions that resulted in unsustainably high margins on our rod production. In 2006, the market began returning to more normal levels. 34 Table of Contents Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 621 $ 43 6.9 % Year ended December 31, 2005 610 31 5.1 % Increase $ 11 $ 12 % increase 2 % 39 % Internal sales decline (2 )% Acquisitions (net of restructuring & divestitures) 4 % Sales grew in 2006 as a result of acquisitions completed in late 2005, but this growth was partially offset by slightly lower internal sales. In our automotive business, market weakness in North America, particularly in larger vehicles that contain more seats with higher end features, was partially offset by growth in Asia and Europe. Machinery volume was stronger in 2006, reflecting improved demand for bedding related equipment in certain international markets. In the Commercial Vehicle Products business, demand for fleet van interiors (racks, shelving, and cabinets installed in service vans) also improved in 2006. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2005 in part due to: Lower restructuring related costs ($6 million) Earnings from acquired companies Lower workers compensation expense ($2 million) Operational benefits from the restructuring Currency factors ($6 million) offset some of these gains. Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $32 million, from $33 million in 2005 to $65 million in 2006. The earnings improvement was primarily due to: Improved market conditions in the Prime Foam and Fibers businesses Reimbursement of a duty on Canadian lumber imports (of $10 million) Lower restructuring related costs (of $9 million) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details, reflecting both continuing and discontinued operations, about our: Uses of cash Cash from operations Debt position and total capitalization We use cash for the following: Finance capital requirements (e.g. productivity, growth, acquisitions) Pay dividends Repurchase our stock Our operations provide much of the cash we require. Over the prior three year period, we also increased net debt to fund a portion of our requirements. In keeping with our stated financial goals, net debt to net capital has increased from 21.9% at the beginning of 2005 to 28.0% at the end of 2007. Our long term target is to have net debt as a percent of net capital in the 30% 40% range, while maintaining our longstanding single A debt rating. The table on page 40 shows the calculation of net debt as a percent of net capital for the past two years. 35 Table of Contents Uses of Cash Finance Capital Requirements We use cash to fund internal growth through capital expenditures and external growth through acquisitions. For the next two years, we plan to focus primarily on improving returns of the existing asset base. That pursuit will require much of senior managements time and attention, and revenue growth during this period is expected to be minimal. Capital expenditures are investments we make to modernize, maintain, and expand manufacturing capacity. With our move to role based portfolio management, we expect to be more restrictive in funding capital projects. Accordingly, we expect future capital spending to be less than in recent years. Capital spending in 2008 is expected to be about $135 million. Growth capital, which has historically been available to all our businesses, will now be predominantly earmarked for our growth business units. Operations that are a part of our core business units will receive capital primarily for productivity enhancements, but expansion capital will be limited. 36 Table of Contents We have also set a higher bar for acquisitions, and do not anticipate many coming to fruition over the next one to two years. Longer term, we plan to pursue disciplined growth through fewer, but more strategic, opportunities. We will seek acquisitions within our growth businesses, and will also look for longer term opportunities to enter new, higher growth markets that meet strict criteria. In 2007, we acquired three businesses that should add about $100 million to annual revenue ($20 million in Commercial Fixturing & Components, $50 million in Industrial Materials, and $30 million in Specialized Products). These businesses: establish a foothold in Asian production of office chair controls manufacture coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers, and present Leggett with expanded technologies and cross segment selling opportunities broaden our suite of products for commercial vehicle interiors We acquired five businesses in 2006 with annualized sales of about $75 million. All these transactions occurred in the Residential Furnishings segment. These acquisitions: broadened our geographic presence and product offerings in geo components expanded our rubber carpet underlay business added to our international spring operations In 2005, we acquired 12 companies with annualized sales (in continuing operations) of approximately $240 million ($170 million in Residential Furnishings and $70 million in Specialized Products). These businesses primarily: Expanded our presence in the conversion and distribution of geo components Broadened our offerings for carpet underlay Added to our business that manufactures and installs products for commercial vehicles In addition to the initial cash outlays for acquisitions (shown in the accompanying chart), we also assumed debt of $35 million, $5 million, and $24 million, respectively in the 2005, 2006, and 2007 transactions. We provide additional details about acquisitions in Note G to the financial statements on page 75. Pay Dividends With improvement in returns, the expected decrease in capital spending and acquisitions, and the planned divestitures, we should have more available cash to return to shareholders. Higher annual dividends are one means by which that will occur. With the January 2008 $.25 dividend payment, we have now raised annual dividends for 37 consecutive years at a compound annual rate of over 14%. We expect to spend approximately $165 million on dividends in 2008. Long term, our targeted dividend payout is approximately 50 60% of net earnings, but will likely be higher for the next two years. 37 Table of Contents Repurchase Stock Share repurchases are the other means by which we return cash to shareholders. During the past three years, we purchased a total of 27 million shares of our stock and reduced outstanding shares by about 12%. The cash available to repurchase shares will fluctuate each year, primarily from changes in earnings, timing of divestitures, and the pace of spending on acquisitions. Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have a standing authorization from the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 10 million shares annually. In addition to the standing authorization, the Board has approved the repurchase of up to an additional 20 million shares in 2008 at managements discretion, limited to the amount of divestiture proceeds. Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Changes in earnings and working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. In 2007, cash from operations increased 28% from 2006, as significant working capital improvements offset lower earnings. The working capital improvements resulted primarily from better accounts receivable collections and ongoing efforts to manage inventories. 38 Table of Contents In 2006, cash from operations increased 7% over 2005. Earnings grew in 2006, but were partially offset by increased working capital due to higher inventories. This inventory increase resulted primarily from softening demand in certain markets and opportunistic pre buys of raw materials. Working capital levels vary by segment, with the requirements of Commercial Fixturing & Components generally higher than overall company averages. Accounts receivable balances in this segment are typically higher due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Fixture & Display business. This business also requires higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of its products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. In the December 31, 2007 balance sheet, we have classified certain assets and liabilities of the planned divestitures as amounts held for sale. Depreciation and amortization are no longer recognized on these assets; accordingly, we anticipate that the 2008 depreciation and amortization expense will be approximately $35 million lower than 2007. Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 796 $ 906 $ 922 Average interest rates * 4.9 % 5.0 % 5.0 % Average maturities in years * 6.8 7.4 7.8 Revolving credit/commercial paper 205 154 Total long term debt 1,001 1,060 922 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 139 163 156 Shareholders equity 2,133 2,351 2,249 Total capitalization $ 3,273 $ 3,574 $ 3,327 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 395 $ 246 $ 400 Short term Total unused committed credit $ 395 $ 246 $ 400 Current maturities of long term debt $ 89 $ 52 $ 99 Cash and cash equivalents $ 205 $ 132 $ 65 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges ** 2.5 x 5.0 x 5.9 x * These calculations include current maturities but exclude commercial paper. ** Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, and implied interest included in operating leases. 39 Table of Contents The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2007 and 2006. We show this calculation in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization, each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows more meaningful comparison to recent periods during which cash fluctuated significantly. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2007 2006 Long term debt $ 1,001 $ 1,060 Current debt maturities 89 52 Cash and cash equivalents (205 ) (132 ) Net debt $ 885 $ 980 Total capitalization $ 3,273 $ 3,574 Current debt maturities 89 52 Cash and cash equivalents (205 ) (132 ) Net capitalization $ 3,157 $ 3,494 Long term debt to total capitalization 30.6 % 29.7 % Net debt to net capitalization 28.0 % 28.0 % Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) decreased $22 million in 2007. During the year, we added $64 million of debt, including $51 million of commercial paper borrowings, and repaid $86 million of debt that came due. Since 2003, weve issued $730 million of fixed rate debt with an average remaining life at the end of 2007 of 7.5 years, and a weighted average interest rate of 4.7%. To further facilitate the issuance of debt and other securities, $300 million remains available under a shelf registration. In addition to issuing long term notes, we can also raise cash by issuing up to $600 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $600 million revolving credit commitment that terminates in 2012. We expect any commercial paper issued under this agreement to be classified as long term debt since we intend to maintain or increase the balance until it is replaced with long term notes. At the end of 2007, $205 million in commercial paper was outstanding under this program. With both the shelf registration and the commercial paper program in place, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations, return cash to shareholders, and fund planned growth. Most of our debt has fixed repayment dates. At the end of 2007, this debt consisted primarily of term notes. We have maintained a single A rating (from both Moodys and Standard & Poors) on our term notes and public debt for over a decade. Our commercial paper program carries a Moodys rating of P 1 and a Standard & Poors rating of A 1. This discussion is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the companys public debt. Furthermore, these ratings are subject to revision and withdrawal at any time, and each should be evaluated separately. 40 Table of Contents CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual obligations and commitments: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total LessThan 1Year 1 3Years 3 5Years MoreThan 5Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt* $ 1,074 $ 79 $ 25 $ 207 $ 763 Capitalized leases 15 10 5 Operating leases 148 42 57 32 17 Purchase obligations** 403 403 Interest payments *** 309 53 86 72 98 Deferred income taxes 42 42 Other obligations (including pensions and reserves for tax contingencies) 96 7 13 9 67 Total contractual cash obligations $ 2,087 $ 594 $ 186 $ 320 $ 987 * The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. Long term debt includes $205 million of outstanding commercial paper, which is generally due overnight. We have classified commercial paper as long term debt (due in 3 5 years) since the commercial paper program is supported by a $600 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. ** Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. *** Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 at rates in effect at the end of the year. These totals include interest on the $205 million of outstanding commercial paper discussed above. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur. Critical accounting estimates are those that are: a) subject to uncertainty and change, and b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed here are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements: Asset and goodwill impairment Inventory Workers compensation, general liability, and employee benefit programs Credit losses Pension accounting Income taxes Contingencies We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the financial statements on page 60. 41 Table of Contents Asset and Goodwill Impairment Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, and as triggering events occur. Other long lived assets are tested for recoverability whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The assessments are performed to ensure that future cash flows (from use of the assets) exceed the assets book value. In doing so, we make judgments and estimates about: a) the future cash flows expected from use (and eventual disposition) of the assets, and b) the assets fair market values. If actual future cash flows are lower than our estimates, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. Our ten reporting units for goodwill purposes (related to continuing operations) are one level below our operating segments, and are the same as the business groups disclosed in Item 1. Business. We assess our reporting units for possible goodwill impairment on an annual basis and whenever events warrant. In doing so, we estimate the fair market values of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow model and comparable market values for similar entities using price to earnings ratios. Key assumptions and estimates used in the cash flow model include discount rate, internal sales growth, margins, capital expenditure requirements, and working capital requirements. Recent performance of the reporting unit is an important factor, but not the only factor, in our assessment. In June 2007, we performed the annual goodwill impairment review and determined that no impairments were indicated for any reporting units. In the fourth quarter 2007, we performed an interim goodwill impairment review as a result of the November Strategic Plan which was considered a triggering event as defined in FAS 142. The fair value of each reporting unit was adjusted to reflect the significant decrease in the Companys overall market value since June. In addition, individual reporting units impacted by the November Strategic Plan were revised to reflect updated margin and growth assumptions. As a result of this interim review, we determined that impairments were indicated for the Aluminum and Fixtures & Display reporting units, resulting in goodwill impairments of $83 million and $143 million, respectively. In addition, we recorded goodwill and asset impairments of $51 million in the fourth quarter 2007 relating to other held for sale locations. Inventory In determining the value of inventories, we make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow moving (i.e. not selling very quickly). If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to have no value. If we have more than a one years supply of a product, we value that inventory at net realizable value (what we think we will recover). At December 31, 2007, we had reduced inventory values by $43 million (approximately 6% of total inventory not held for sale valued on a FIFO basis) to account for obsolete and slow moving items. Workers Compensation, General Liability, and Employee Benefit Programs We are substantially self insured for certain costs related to workers compensation, automobile, product and general liability, property, and medical insurance. When estimating the potential amounts we might have to pay (since we are self insured), we consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. In 2005, we significantly increased our reserve for workers compensation to reflect higher costs of medical care and longer durations of claims (as more treatment options are available and can continue over longer periods of time). Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $27 million annually for costs associated with these insurance programs. Average year to year variation over the past five years has been approximately $3 million. At December 31, 2007, we had accrued $72 million to cover future self insurance liabilities. 42 Table of Contents Credit Losses Our customers are diverse. Many are small to medium sized companies, and some are highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning. We regularly evaluate the ability of our customers to pay what they owe us. When we become aware of a specific customers potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible. We consider factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical experience. The total amount of credit losses over the last three years is $19 million. At December 31, 2007, our reserves for doubtful accounts not held for sale totaled $23 million (about 3.4% of our accounts and notes receivable of $685 million). Pension Accounting For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations. The two most critical assumptions affecting these estimates are the discount rate and the expected return on assets. Other assumptions include rates of compensation increases, withdrawal and mortality rates, and retirement ages. These estimates impact the pension expense or income we recognize and our reported benefit obligations. We have recognized the impact of individual plans funded amounts on the balance sheet, and continue to use a September 30 measurement date for our most significant plans. To reflect market interest rates, in 2007 we increased the discount rate for our major pension plans from 5.75% to 6.0%. This follows an increase in 2006 from 5.5% to 5.75%. We continued to assume long term returns of 8.0% on the assets of these plans, which was identical to our 2006 and 2005 assumptions. Sensitivity to changes in the critical assumptions for our major plans is as follows: Discount rate: a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $.3 million and decrease the plans funded status by approximately $5 million. Expected return on assets: a 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.5 million, but have no effect on the plans funded status. We expect that the combined contribution in 2008 to our defined benefit plans will total approximately $2 million. On December 31, 2006, our defined benefit Retirement Plan covering non union employees was frozen, thereby eliminating the future accrual of benefits to participants and closing the plan to future enrollment. This plan change reduced the projected benefit obligation by $12 million, and reduced 2007 pension expense by $4 million. Participants were moved to a defined contribution plan with a company contribution based upon the age of the participant. Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. At December 31, 2007, five open years were undergoing (or subject to) audit by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Canada Revenue Agency. In 2005, audits in both countries for the years 2000 and 43 Table of Contents 2001 were settled in all material respects with no significant adjustments. In 2006, the IRS examination for the years 2002 and 2003 was concluded. A final report was issued, and the net refund of approximately $11 million, plus interest, under review by the Joint Committee on Taxation as of December 31, 2006, was received in 2007. The largest issue pertained to a refund claim we made for a worthless stock deduction. The resolution of this item was reflected in 2006 as a reduction in the Companys overall tax rate. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had $25 million and $38 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Valuation reserves are established against future potential tax benefits to reflect the amounts that we believe have no more than a 50% probability of being realized. In addition, assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of such earnings. Contingencies Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. The Company has been named as one of numerous defendants in several cases consolidated as Gray v. Derderian, Case No. 1:04 CV 312 L, U.S.D.C. R.I. This litigation resulted from a nightclub fire in West Warwick, Rhode Island involving multiple deaths and injuries. Along with other foam manufacturing defendants, the Company is alleged to have manufactured and sold bulk polyurethane foam to a foam fabricator in Rhode Island, who in turn, is alleged to have fabricated and sold foam sheets to the nightclub. The foam was among other materials alleged to have caught fire when pyrotechnics were ignited inside the nightclub. The plaintiffs are seeking monetary damages in an unspecified amount. The litigation is in its early stages. We believe the Company has raised valid defenses to the claims. We intend to continue vigorously defending these claims. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss that may arise from this litigation. However, the Companys insurance coverages (including a $2 million self retention amount) are sufficient to satisfy the latest settlement demand. Management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operation. In 2005, we recorded a receivable of $5 million related to an ongoing international dispute over duties imposed by the United States on softwood lumber imported from Canada. In 2006 the U.S. and Canada finalized an agreement to settle this dispute and as a result, we were refunded $21 million in duties and interest for our claim. The refund was recorded as income ($16 million in 2006 and $5 million in 2005) and is reflected in earnings from discontinued operations. Since this claim is now settled, we do not anticipate any further payments. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.158 (SFAS 158), Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. SFAS 158 requires the Company to recognize the funded status of each of its defined benefit postretirement plans as an asset or liability on the balance sheet. This requirement was effective as of December 31, 2006, and is reflected in the accompanying financial statements. SFAS 158 will also require the Company to measure the funded status of its plans as of year end beginning with the December 31, 2008 balance sheet. The Company currently uses September 30 as the measurement date for its most significant plans. The Company has chosen to perform a measurement that covers the 15 month period of October 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008. A proportionate allocation is made to cover the net benefit expense or income for the transition period and that amount will be recorded as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings on January 1, 44 Table of Contents 2008. The Company has evaluated the effect of this standard and determined that it will not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities and requires additional disclosure about the use of fair value measures, the information used to measure fair value, and the effect fair value measurements have on earnings. The primary areas in which the Company utilizes fair value measures are valuing pension plan assets and liabilities, valuing hedge related derivative financial instruments, allocating purchase price to the assets and liabilities of acquired companies, and evaluating long term assets for potential impairment. SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for financial assets and liabilities of the Company beginning January 1, 2008. SFAS 157 is effective beginning January 1, 2009 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. The Company has evaluated the effect of this standard and does not believe that it will have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other instruments at fair value, with the objective of improving financial reporting by providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. SFAS 159 is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2008. The Company has evaluated the effect of this standard and determined that it will not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (R), Business Combinations, which replaces SFAS 141. The new standard requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction and establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed. SFAS 141 (R) is effective on a prospective basis for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009, with the exception of the accounting for valuation allowances on deferred taxes, and acquired tax contingencies. SFAS 141 (R) amends SFAS 109 such that adjustments made to valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies associated with acquisitions that closed prior to the effective date of SFAS 141 (R) would also apply the provisions of SFAS 141 (R). The adoption of SFAS 141 (R) is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, which seeks to improve the relevance, comparability, and transparency of financial information provided to investors by requiring all entities to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries in the same way as equity in their consolidated financial statements. SFAS 160 is also effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009, and its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) INTEREST RATES The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars. (See discussion of Net Investment Hedges provided in Note R on page 97 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $19.9 at December 31, 2007, and less than its 45 Table of Contents carrying value by $43.5 at December 31, 2006. The fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using the U.S. Treasury Bond rate as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs under its medium term note program. A 50 basis point increase in the interest rate would result in an additional $20.8 reduction in the fair value of fixed rate debt. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Scheduled Maturity Date Long term debt as of December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter 2007 2006 Principal fixed rate debt $ 71.5 $ 15.0 $ 730.0 $ 816.5 $ 846.7 Average interest rate 6.31 % 7.26 % 4.72 % 4.91 % 4.99 % Principal variable rate debt $ .5 $ .5 $ 8.5 $ .5 $ .5 $ 21.5 $ 32.0 $ 73.1 Average interest rate 3.72 % 3.72 % 3.51 % 3.72 % 3.72 % 3.60 % 3.58 % 3.91 % Miscellaneous debt* $ 240.8 $ 192.2 Total debt $ 1,089.3 $ 1,112.0 Less: current maturities $ (88.7 ) $ (52.0 ) Total long term debt $ 1,000.6 $ 1,060.0 * Includes $205 and $154 of commercial paper in 2007 and 2006, respectively, supported by a $600 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It is the Companys policy not to speculate in derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in Note R on page 97 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. INVESTMENT IN FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment and does not hedge translation exposures, except for the net investment hedge discussed in Note R on page 97 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, subject to translation exposure at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2007 2006 Canadian Dollar $ 301.4 $ 316.9 European Currencies 328.5 299.5 Mexican Peso 87.7 79.8 Chinese Renminbi 125.8 115.7 Other 70.7 65.9 Total $ 914.1 $ 877.8 
 
