Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, on page 40, and Note C on page 91 and Note D on page 95 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Overview of Our Segments Residential Furnishings Segment Our Residential Furnishings segment began with an 1885 patent of the steel coil bedspring. Today, we supply a variety of components used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. Our range of products offers our customers a single source for many of their component needs. Long production runs, internal production of key raw materials, and numerous manufacturing and assembly locations allow us to supply many customers with components at a lower cost than they can produce themselves. In addition to cost savings, sourcing components from us allows our customers to focus on designing, merchandising and marketing their products. Products Products manufactured or distributed by our Residential Furnishings groups include: Bedding Group Innersprings (sets of steel coils, bound together, that form the core of a mattress) Wire forms for mattress foundations Adjustable electric beds Furniture Group Steel mechanisms and hardware (enabling furniture to recline, tilt, swivel, rock and elevate) for reclining chairs and sleeper sofas Springs and seat suspensions for chairs, sofas and loveseats 5 Table of Contents PART I Steel tubular seat frames Bed frames, ornamental beds, and top of bed accessories Fabric & Carpet Underlay Group Structural fabrics for mattresses, residential furniture and industrial uses Carpet underlay materials (bonded scrap foam, felt, rubber and prime foam) Geo components (synthetic fabrics and various other products used in ground stabilization, drainage protection, erosion and weed control, as well as silt fencing) Customers Most of our Residential Furnishings customers are manufacturers of finished bedding products (mattresses and foundations) or upholstered furniture for residential use. We also sell many products, including ornamental beds, bed frames, adjustable beds, carpet underlay, and top of bed accessories, directly to retailers and distributors. We sell geo components products primarily to dealers, contractors, landscapers, road construction companies and government agencies. Commercial Fixturing & Components Segment Our Fixture & Display group designs, produces, installs and manages our customers store fixtures and point of purchase projects. Our Office Furniture Components group designs, manufactures, and distributes a wide range of engineered components targeted for the office seating market. Products Products manufactured or distributed by our Commercial Fixturing & Components groups include: Fixture & Display Group Custom designed, full store fixture packages for retailers, including shelving, counters, showcases and garment racks Standardized shelving used by large retailers, grocery stores and discount chains Point of purchase displays 6 Table of Contents PART I Office Furniture Components Group Bases, columns, back rests, casters and frames for office chairs, and control devices that allow office chairs to tilt, swivel and elevate Customers Customers of the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment include: Retail chains and specialty shops Brand name marketers and distributors of consumer products Office, institutional and commercial furniture manufacturers Industrial Materials Segment The quality of the Industrial Materials segments products and service, together with low cost, have made us North Americas leading supplier of drawn steel wire and a major producer of welded steel tubing. Our Wire group operates a steel rod mill with an annual output of approximately 500,000 tons, nearly all of which is used by our own wire mills. We have six wire mills that supply virtually all the wire consumed by our other domestic businesses. Our Tubing group operates two major plants that also supply nearly all of our internal needs for welded steel tubing. In addition to supporting our internal requirements, the Industrial Materials segment supplies many external customers with wire and tubing products. Products Products manufactured or distributed by our Industrial Materials groups include: Wire Group Steel rod Drawn wire Steel billets Fabricated wire products, such as wire ties to bale cotton; shaped wire for automotive and medical supply applications; tying heads, boxed wire, and parts for automatic baling equipment; coated wire products, including dishwasher racks; and wire retail fixtures and point of purchase displays 7 Table of Contents PART I Tubing Group Welded steel tubing Fabricated tube components Customers We use about half of our wire output and about one quarter of our welded steel tubing output to manufacture our own products. For example, we use our wire and steel tubing to make: Bedding and furniture components Motion furniture mechanisms Commercial fixtures, point of purchase displays and shelving Automotive seat components and frames The Industrial Materials segment also has a diverse group of external customers, including: Bedding and furniture makers Automotive seating manufacturers Lawn and garden equipment manufacturers Mechanical spring makers Waste recyclers, waste removal businesses and cotton balers Medical supply businesses Specialized Products Segment Our Specialized Products segment designs, produces and sells components primarily for automotive seating, specialized machinery and equipment, and service van interiors. Our established design capability and focus on product development have made us a leader in innovation. We also benefit from our broad geographic presence and our internal production of key raw materials and components. Products Products manufactured or distributed by our Specialized Products groups include: Automotive Group Manual and power lumbar support and massage systems for automotive seating Seat suspension systems Automotive control cables, such as shift cables, cruise control cables, seat belt cables, accelerator cables, seat control cables and latch release cables 8 Table of Contents PART I Low voltage motors and actuation assemblies Formed metal and wire components for seat frames Machinery Group Full range of quilting machines for mattress covers Machines used to shape wire into various types of springs Industrial sewing/finishing machines Commercial Vehicle Products Group Van interiors (the racks, shelving and cabinets installed in service vans) Docking stations that mount computers and other electronic equipment inside vehicles Specialty trailers used by telephone, cable and utility companies Customers Our primary customers for the Specialized Products segment include: Automobile seating manufacturers Bedding manufacturers Telecom, cable, home service and delivery companies Acquisitions and Divestitures Historically, our typical acquisition targets have been small, private, profitable, entrepreneurial companies that manufacture goods either within our existing product lines or one step away from those product lines and complementary to our existing businesses. As part of the 2007 Strategic Plan, we expect fewer and more strategic acquisitions to be completed. All acquisitions should create value by enhancing TSR; they should have clear strategic rationale and sustainable competitive advantage in attractive markets. 2008 Acquisitions We had no significant acquisitions in 2008. 2007 Acquisitions We acquired three businesses during 2007 with annualized sales of approximately $100 million broken down by segment as follows: Commercial Fixturing & Components $ 20 million Industrial Materials $ 50 million Specialized Products $ 30 million In Commercial Fixturing & Components we added one business located in China which produces office chair controls. We also added one business to the Industrial Materials segment, which produces coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers. Finally, 9 Table of Contents PART I in the Specialized Products segment, we added a business which is a designer and assembler of docking stations that secure computer and other electronic equipment inside vehicles. 2006 Acquisitions We acquired five businesses in 2006 with annualized sales of about $75 million. All of the transactions occurred in the Residential Furnishings segment. These acquisitions broadened our geographic presence and product offering in geo components, expanded our carpet underlay business, and added to our international spring operations. For further information about acquisitions, see Note G on page 100 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2008 Divestitures We divested five significant businesses in 2008 with annualized sales of approximately $780 million. The largest divestiture (approximately $485 million in annualized revenue) was the Aluminum Products segment which was sold in July 2008. We also sold four other business units in 2008 Wood Products and Fibers (previously in the Residential Furnishings segment); Plastics (previously in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment); and the dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products (previously in the Specialized Products segment). Two additional business units are targeted for divestiture (Coated Fabrics and Storage Products). We are in discussions with potential buyers and expect to complete the remaining dispositions in the near term, although current market conditions may impact the timing of these dispositions. To date, we have received after tax cash proceeds of approximately $408 million for the five divested businesses, not including subordinated notes and preferred stock. All of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations. 2007 Divestitures In the first quarter of 2007, we divested our Prime Foam Products business unit (previously in the Residential Furnishings segment) and received after tax cash proceeds of approximately $70 million. Our former Prime Foam Products business unit had annual revenue of approximately $190 million and has been classified as a discontinued operation. For further information about divestitures and discontinued operations, see Note B on page 88 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. New Product Development In 2007, we introduced a significant, new proprietary innerspring design to the bedding market. This new patented product, Verticoil&reg;, provides an attractive alternative to generic Bonnell innersprings that have been available in the market for decades. Verticoil provides 10 Table of Contents PART I our customers unique surface and structural features that we believe are preferable over those of Bonnell innersprings. In addition to offering value to our customers, the unique design of Verticoil&reg; enables us to produce these innersprings using less steel wire, which represents a cost savings that provides enhanced margins for Leggett. We began ramping up production of Verticoil&reg; in 2008, and conversion from Bonnell innersprings to Verticoil&reg; is continuing in 2009. Segment Financial Information For information about sales to external customers, sales by product line, earnings before interest and taxes, and total assets of each of our segments, refer to Note O on page 117 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign Operations The percentages of our external sales from continuing operations related to products manufactured outside the United States for the previous three years are shown below. Our international continuing operations are principally located in Europe, China, Canada and Mexico. The products we make in these countries primarily consist of: Europe Innersprings for mattresses Wire and wire products Lumbar and seat suspension systems for automotive seating Machinery and equipment designed to manufacture innersprings for mattresses and other bedding related components Design and distribution of point of purchase displays for retailers 11 Table of Contents PART I China Innersprings for mattresses Recliner mechanisms and bases for upholstered furniture Formed wire for upholstered furniture Retail store fixtures and gondola shelving Office furniture components, including chair bases and casters Stamped seat frames and formed metal products for automotive seating Cables and small electric motors used in lumbar systems for automotive seating Machinery and replacement parts for machines used in the bedding industry Canada Innersprings for mattresses Fabricated wire for the bedding, furniture and automotive industries Chair bases, table bases and office chair controls Lumbar supports for automotive seats Wire and steel storage systems and racks for the interior of service vans and utility vehicles Mexico Innersprings and fabricated wire for the bedding industry Retail shelving and point of purchase displays Automotive control cable systems Our international expansion strategy is to locate our operations where we believe demand for components is growing. Also, in instances where our customers move the production of their finished products overseas, we have located facilities nearby to supply them efficiently. Our international operations face the risks associated with any operation in a foreign country. These risks include: Nationalization of private enterprises Political instability in certain countries Foreign legal systems that make it difficult to protect intellectual property and enforce contract rights Credit risks Increased costs due to tariffs, customs and shipping rates Potential problems obtaining raw materials, and disruptions related to the availability of electricity and transportation during times of crisis or war Foreign currency fluctuation These and other foreign related risks could result in cost increases, reduced profits, the inability to carry on our foreign operations and other adverse effects on our business. 12 Table of Contents PART I Geographic Areas of Operation We have production, warehousing and distribution facilities in countries around the world. Below is a list of countries where we have facilities associated with continuing operations: For further information concerning our external sales from continuing operations related to products manufactured outside the United States and our long lived assets outside the United States, refer to Note O on page 117 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 13 Table of Contents PART I Sales by Product Line The following table shows our approximate percentage of external sales from continuing operations by product line for the last three years: Product Line 2006 2007 2008 Bedding Group 19 % 19 % 20 % Fabric & Carpet Underlay Group 20 19 16 Furniture Group 16 15 15 Wire Group 9 10 14 Fixture & Display Group 14 14 12 Automotive Group 8 9 8 Office Furniture Components Group 5 5 5 Commercial Vehicle Products Group 3 4 4 Machinery Group 3 3 3 Tubing Group 3 2 3 Distribution of Products In each of our segments, we sell and distribute our products primarily through our own sales personnel. However, many of our businesses have relationships and agreements with outside sales representatives and distributors. We do not believe any of these agreements or relationships would, if terminated, have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Raw Materials The products we manufacture in continuing operations require a variety of raw materials. Among the most important are: Various types of steel, including scrap, rod, wire, coil, sheet and angle iron Foam scrap Woven and non woven fabrics We supply our own raw materials for many of the products we make. For example, we produce steel rod that we make into steel wire, which we then use to manufacture: Innersprings and foundations for mattresses Springs and seat suspensions for chairs and sofas Displays, shelving and racks for retailers Automotive seating components We supply the majority of our steel rod requirements through our own rod mill. Our own wire drawing mills supply nearly all of our U.S. requirements for steel wire. We also produce welded steel tubing both for our own consumption and for sale to external customers. We believe that worldwide supply sources are available for all the raw materials we use. However, we have experienced volatility in raw material prices in the last three years, most 14 Table of Contents PART I notably in steel. Early in 2007 the cost of steel scrap increased, leading to higher rod costs. We implemented price increases to pass through some of these costs. In late 2007, once again we began experiencing higher steel costs, and significant increases occurred in 2008. We implemented price increases to recover most of these higher costs. Market prices began to abate late in 2008, but for certain types of steel, continued to be well above 2007 levels. The future pricing of raw materials is uncertain. The degree to which we are able to mitigate or recover higher costs, should they occur, could influence our future earnings. Also, if raw material costs decrease there may be downward pressure on selling prices, temporarily resulting in lower segment margins as we consume higher cost inventories. Higher raw material costs have led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. In some cases, higher cost components have been replaced with lower cost components, causing us to shift production accordingly. This has primarily impacted profit margins in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments. We have responded by developing new products (including new types of innersprings and box springs) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and in certain instances, provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Customer Concentration We serve thousands of customers worldwide, sustaining many long term business relationships. In 2008, no customer accounted for more than 5% of our consolidated revenues from continuing operations. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 20% of these consolidated revenues. Specialized Products has one customer whose purchases accounted for approximately 13% of the segments sales from continuing operations in 2008. The loss of this customer may have a material adverse effect upon the segment. 15 Table of Contents PART I Patents and Trademarks The chart below shows the approximate numbers of patents issued, patents in process, trademarks issued and trademarks in process held by our continuing operations at the end of 2008. No single patent or group of patents, or trademark or group of trademarks, is material to our continuing operations. Most of our patents and trademarks relate to products sold in the Specialized Products and Residential Furnishings segments. We also have 16 patents, 10 patents in process, 43 trademarks and 2 trademarks in process in discontinued operations. Some of our most significant trademarks include: Semi Flex&reg; and Semi Fold&reg; (boxspring components and foundations) Mira Coil&reg;, Verticoil&reg;, Lura Flex&reg; and Superlastic&reg; (mattress innersprings) Lifestyles, S cape&reg; and Adjustables&reg; by Leggett & Platt&reg; (adjustable electric beds) Wall Hugger&reg; (recliner chair mechanisms) Super Sagless&reg; (motion and sofa sleeper mechanisms) No Sag&reg; (wire forms used in seating) Tack & Jump&reg; and Pattern Link&reg; (quilting machines) Hanes&reg; (fiber materials) Schukra&reg;, Pullmaflex&reg; and Flex O Lator&reg; (automotive seating products) Spuhl&reg; (mattress innerspring manufacturing machines) Gribetz and Porter&reg; (quilting and sewing machines) Quietflex&reg; and Masterack&reg; (equipment and accessories for vans and trucks) Research and Development We maintain research, engineering and testing centers in Carthage, Missouri, and do additional research and development work at many of our other facilities. We are unable to precisely calculate the cost of research and development because the personnel involved in 16 Table of Contents PART I product and machinery development also spend portions of their time in other areas. However, we estimate the cost of research and development associated with continuing operations was approximately $25 to $30 million in each of the last three years. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 20,600 employees associated with our continuing operations, of which roughly 14,600 were engaged in production. Of the 20,600, approximately 8,700 are international employees. Labor unions represent roughly 2,600 of our employees associated with continuing operations. We did not experience any material work stoppage related to contract negotiations with labor unions during 2008. Management is not aware of any circumstances likely to result in a material work stoppage related to contract negotiations with labor unions during 2009. The chart below shows the approximate number of employees associated with continuing operations by segment. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately 24,000 employees associated with its continuing operations. Employees in Discontinued Operations At December 31, 2008, we had approximately 490 employees associated with discontinued operations, of which 130 employees are in the Residential Furnishings segment and 360 employees are in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment. For more information on our discontinued operations, see Note B on page 88 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately 6,550 employees associated with its discontinued operations. 17 Table of Contents PART I Competition Many companies offer products that compete with those we manufacture and sell. The number of competing companies varies by product line, but many of the markets for our products are highly competitive. We tend to attract and retain customers through product quality, innovation, competitive pricing and customer service. Many of our competitors try to win business primarily on price but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. We believe we are the largest independent manufacturer in North America, in terms of revenue, of the following: Components for residential furniture and bedding Carpet underlay Components for office furniture Drawn steel wire Automotive seat support and lumbar systems Adjustable beds Bedding industry machinery for wire forming, sewing and quilting We face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, we believe our operations should be located nearby to supply them efficiently. Accordingly, at the end of 2008, Leggett operated 11 facilities in China. In recent years we experienced increased competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. We reacted to this competition by selectively adjusting prices, and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. The increased price competition for bedding components was partially due to lower wire costs in China. Asian manufacturers benefit from cost advantages for commodities such as steel and chemicals. Foreign manufacturers also benefit from lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. In late 2007, we filed an antidumping suit related to innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam. We saw a distinct decline in unfair imports during 2008 after the antidumping investigations began, and as a result, we regained market share. The investigations were brought to a favorable conclusion in early 2009. We should see improved performance in our Bedding group as imported innersprings from these countries will now have to be sold at fair prices. The current antidumping duty rates on innersprings from these countries are significant, ranging from 116% to 234%, and will remain in effect for at least 5 years. Seasonality As a diversified manufacturer, we generally have not experienced significant seasonality. The timing of acquisitions, dispositions, and economic factors in any year can distort the underlying seasonality in certain of our businesses. Nevertheless, for the Company as a whole, the second and third quarters typically have proportionately greater sales, while the first and fourth quarters are generally lower. 18 Table of Contents PART I Our four segments tend to experience seasonality as follows: Residential Furnishings: typically has the strongest sales in the second and third quarters due to increased consumer demand for bedding and furniture during those periods. Commercial Fixturing & Components: generally has heavy third quarter sales of its store fixture products, with the first and fourth quarters normally lower. This aligns with the retail industrys normal construction cycle the opening of new stores and completion of remodeling projects in advance of the holiday season. Industrial Materials: minimal variation in sales throughout the year. Specialized Products: relatively little quarter to quarter variation in sales, although the automotive business is somewhat heavier in the second and fourth quarters of the year and lower in the third quarter due to model changeovers and plant shutdowns in the automobile industry during the summer. Backlog Our customer relationships and our manufacturing and inventory practices do not create a material amount of backlog orders for any of our segments. Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to the level of incoming orders and projected demand based on customer relationships. Working Capital Items For information regarding working capital items, see the discussion of Cash from Operations in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, on page 54. Environmental Regulation Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. We have policies intended to ensure that our operations are conducted in keeping with good corporate citizenship and a commitment to protect the environment. While we cannot predict policy changes by various regulatory agencies, management expects that compliance with these laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, capital expenditures, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Internet Access to Information We routinely post all material information to our website. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and all amendments to those reports are made available, free of charge, on our website at http://www.leggett.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to these reports, the Companys Financial Code of Ethics, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as charters for its Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors can be found on our website. Each of 19 Table of Contents PART I these documents is available in print, free of charge, to any shareholder who requests it. Information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Discontinued Operations As a result of our 2007 Strategic Plan, several of our businesses are disclosed in our annual financial statements as discontinued operations since (i) the operations and cash flows of the businesses can be clearly distinguished and have been or will be eliminated from our ongoing operations; (ii) the businesses have either been disposed of or are classified as held for sale; and (iii) we do not, or will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the businesses after the disposal transactions. The discontinued operations include: Aluminum Products segment. We divested this segment in July 2008. It produced and sold non automotive aluminum, zinc and magnesium die castings, and new and refurbished dies (also known as molds or tools) for all types and sizes of die casting machines. It also provided machining, coating, finishing, sub assembly and other value added services for die cast components. These products and services were sold to (i) small engine and diesel engine builders; (ii) motorcycle, off road and recreational vehicle, truck and automobile makers; (iii) manufacturers of outdoor lighting fixtures, cable line amplifiers, wireless communications systems, and other cable and telecommunication products; (iv) consumer appliance and power tool manufacturers; (v) producers of electric motors, computers and electronics; (vi) gas barbeque grill manufacturers; and (vii) die cast manufacturers. Prime Foam Products unit, Wood Products unit, Fibers unit and the Coated Fabrics unit (each previously reported in the Residential Furnishings segment). (i) We divested the Prime Foam Products unit in the first quarter of 2007. It primarily produced commodity foam used for cushioning by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers. (ii) We divested the Wood Products unit in the third quarter of 2008. It sold wood frames and cut to size dimension lumber to bedding manufacturers. (iii) We divested the Fibers unit in the fourth quarter of 2008. It sold fiber cushioning material primarily to bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers. (iv) The Coated Fabrics unit sells non slip rug underlay and shelf liners primarily to retailers and distributors. This divestiture has not yet been completed. Plastics unit and the Storage Products unit (each previously reported in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment). (i) The Plastics unit, which was divested in the third quarter of 2008, sold injection molded plastic components primarily for manufacturers of lawn care equipment and power tools. (ii) The Storage Products unit sells storage racks and carts used in the food service and healthcare industries. This divestiture has not yet been completed. 20 Table of Contents PART I An automotive seating components operation and the dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products unit (each previously reported in the Specialized Products segment). (i) The automotive seating components operation, which we divested in the first quarter of 2008, sold welded assemblies, and wire and tubular frames for automotive seating. (ii) We divested the dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products unit in the third quarter of 2008. It sold truck bodies for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks and dump trucks primarily to end users of light to medium duty commercial trucks. For further information on discontinued operations, see Note B on page 88 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves risk. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this report. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC. We have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products. As a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. Our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. Market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. To a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. All of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Demand weakness in the U.S. home related, retail, and other markets has led to lower unit order activity, sales and earnings in our businesses. Several factors, including a weak U.S. economy, higher energy costs, a depressed housing market, and low consumer confidence contributed to conservative spending habits by U.S. consumers. Late in the third quarter of 2008, our markets weakened appreciably as consumers further reined in spending during this period of credit concerns and stock market volatility. Short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited long term visibility into demand trends; however, we currently expect market demand to be soft in 2009. If economic and market conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents PART I U.S. and global financial and credit market volatility could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We continue to monitor our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity in light of the recent distress in the financial and credit markets. Further changes in the financial or credit markets could adversely affect us in several different areas as discussed below. Due to the recent tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit, our customers may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary cash for their purchases. Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by the current credit and financial market conditions causing delays in product deliveries to us. These delays could negatively impact our customers and or suppliers ability to conduct business and could adversely affect our unit volume and revenues, and therefore harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Recent deterioration in the securities markets has also impacted asset values of our defined benefit plans. Plan assets and liabilities are measured at December 31 of each year. At December 31, 2008, our defined benefit plans were under funded by approximately $29 million, which represented 13% of the plans benefit obligations. Changes in the value of plan assets did not have an impact on the 2008 income statement, however reduced benefit plan assets will result in increased costs in 2009 and may increase the amount or accelerate the timing of required future funding contributions. Cash equivalents, short term investments and derivative financial instruments are subject to market value and counterparty risks. Changes in the fair value of these items may adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. These balances could also be impacted if the counterparties are unable to meet their commitments in accordance with the terms of agreements. Costs of raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. Raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. Steel is our most significant raw material. In late 2007 we began seeing higher steel costs, and further increases occurred in 2008. The global steel markets are very cyclical in nature, and can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. Our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of foam scrap. We experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of this commodity in recent years. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. Also, higher raw material costs led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. In some 22 Table of Contents PART I cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. This has primarily impacted our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials product mix and decreased profit margins. This trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. Our debt instrument ratings may be further downgraded which will increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to issue commercial paper and may negatively impact our liquidity. We have maintained a debt rating in the A category (from Moodys and Standard and Poors) on our term notes and public debt for over a decade. On November 12, 2008, Moodys downgraded the Companys long term debt rating from A2 to A3 and our commercial paper rating from P1 to P2 citing accelerating contraction in residential and automotive related consumer spending. Also, on November 25, 2008, S&P downgraded the Companys long term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings from A to A and our short term and commercial paper ratings from A 1 to A 2 citing weak market conditions and financial policies that include a high dividend payout and share repurchases. In addition, both Moodys and S&P assigned a negative outlook to each of their respective ratings. If the rating agencies were to further downgrade our debt instruments, this may have a negative effect on our cost of borrowing, our ability to issue commercial paper and ultimately on our liquidity. For further information regarding our debt ratings refer to page 58. We may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Continued economic uncertainty could change our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. Asian competition could adversely affect our operating results. We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. We face increasing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. If we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed. Our long lived assets are subject to potential asset impairment. A significant portion of our assets consist of goodwill and other intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. At December 31, 2008, goodwill and other intangible assets not held for sale represented approximately $1.07 billion, or approximately 34% of our total assets. In addition, net property, plant and equipment, sundry assets and non current assets held for sale totaled approximately $782 million, or approximately 25% of total assets. 23 Table of Contents PART I We review for potential goodwill impairment on an annual basis as part of our goodwill impairment testing in the second quarter of each year, and more often, if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. In addition, we test for the recoverability of long lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we conducted interim impairment testing as a result of the changes announced with the 2007 Strategic Plan and determined that some long lived assets were impaired. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred goodwill impairment of $243 million, and long lived asset impairment of $44 million. The annual goodwill impairment review performed in June 2008 indicated no goodwill impairments. As a result of the deterioration in the economic and financial climate in the fourth quarter of 2008, interim goodwill and other long lived asset impairment analyses were performed in the fourth quarter. The goodwill analysis confirmed that fair values exceeded carrying value for all reporting units. Future cash flow assumptions were reduced to reflect lower sales and production levels for 2009 and 2010, returning to historical levels thereafter. Other long lived asset impairment charges of $12 million were recorded in the fourth quarter 2008. Throughout 2008, we recorded $26 million of goodwill and $6 million of other long lived asset impairments related to businesses held for sale as updated estimates of fair value less costs to sell became more certain. If actual results differ from estimates used in these calculations, the Company could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. We are exposed to foreign currency risk. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. In 2008, 26% of our sales from continuing operations was generated by international operations. The revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. Further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. Foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. The Companys corporate headquarters are located in Carthage, Missouri. At December 31, 2008, we had 270 production, warehouse, sales and administrative facilities associated with continuing operations, of which 196 were disbursed across the United States and 74 were located in foreign countries. 24 Table of Contents PART I Properties by Location and Segment in Continuing Operations Subtotals by Segment Locations Company Wide ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components IndustrialMaterials SpecializedProducts United States 196 118 27 28 23 Canada 14 6 3 0 5 Mexico 8 2 1 2 3 Europe 17 5 3 0 9 Asia 25 12 4 1 8 Other 10 10 0 0 0 Total 270 153 38 31 48 Properties by Use and Segment in Continuing Operations Subtotals by Segment Use Company Wide ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components IndustrialMaterials SpecializedProducts Production1 167 87 28 19 33 Warehouse 65 43 6 7 9 Sales 10 8 0 1 1 Administration 28 15 4 4 5 Total 270 153 38 31 48 1 Includes some multi purpose facilities with additional warehouse, sales and or administrative uses. Our most important physical properties are our production plants. The Company owns approximately 80% of the production facilities accounting for the majority of our consolidated sales from continuing operations. We lease many of our production, warehouse and other facilities on terms that vary by lease (including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs). For additional information regarding lease obligations, see Note K on page 104 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the opinion of management the Companys owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for the manufacture, assembly and distribution of our products. Our properties are located to allow quick and efficient delivery of products and services to our diverse customer base. Our productive capacity associated with continuing operations, in general, continues to exceed current operating levels. Capacity levels are somewhat flexible based on the number of shifts operated and on the number of overtime hours worked. At December 31, 2008 we had 12 production, warehouse, sales and administrative facilities classified as discontinued operations, of which 10 were in the United States and 2 were located in foreign countries. 25 Table of Contents PART I Properties by Location and Segment Classified as Discontinued Operations Subtotals by Segment Locations Company Wide ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components United States 10 2 8 Canada 1 0 1 Mexico 1 0 1 Total 12 2 10 Properties by Use and Segment Classified as Discontinued Operations Subtotals by Segment Use Company Wide ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components Production1 8 1 7 Warehouse 2 0 2 Sales 2 1 1 Administration 0 0 0 Total 12 2 10 1 Includes some multi purpose facilities with additional warehouse, sales and or administrative uses. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Anti dumping Petition On December 31, 2007, the Company filed a petition with the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) alleging that manufacturers of uncovered innersprings in China, South Africa and Vietnam were unfairly selling their products in the United States at less than fair value (dumping) and causing material injury to U.S. innerspring producers. The ITC made a preliminary determination of material injury to the domestic innerspring industry in this case. On July 31, 2008, the DOC announced preliminary duties on innersprings imported from these three countries (ranging from 116% to 234%) and instructed the U.S. Customs and Border Protection to collect a cash deposit or bond on any ongoing imports. On October 15, 2008 the DOC announced final dumping duties on innersprings from South Africa at 121% and from Vietnam at 116%. On November 11, 2008, the ITC made affirmative final determinations that imports from South Africa and Vietnam caused material injury to the U.S. innerspring industry. On December 22, 2008, the DOC announced final dumping duties on innersprings from China at 164% to 234%, and on January 27, 2009, the ITC made final determinations that the domestic innerspring industry has been materially injured by innersprings imported from China. 26 Table of Contents PART I As a result of these final determinations, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection will collect antidumping duties on these imports at the above rates. The antidumping orders will remain in force for at least 5 years. Shareholder Claim On February 5, 2009, a shareholder derivative complaint was filed by the New England Carpenters Pension Fund, which represented that it owns 3,000 shares of Leggett stock, in the Circuit Court of Jasper County, Missouri. The complaint is substantially similar to a lawsuit filed by the New England Carpenters Pension Fund in federal court on September 4, 2008, which the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed on September 26, 2008 without prejudice to its right to re file. However, this new lawsuit has fewer claims and asserts no federal causes of action. The action is purportedly brought on behalf of the Company, naming it as a nominal defendant and naming as defendants certain current and former officers and directors of the Company including David S. Haffner, Karl G. Glassman, Matthew C. Flanigan, Ernest C. Jett, Harry M. Cornell, Jr., Felix E. Wright, Robert Ted Enloe, III, Richard T. Fisher, Judy C. Odom, Maurice E. Purnell, Jr., Ralph W. Clark and Michael A. Glauber. The plaintiff alleges, among other things, that the individual defendants participated in the backdating of stock options, breached fiduciary duties, caused or allowed the Company to issue false and misleading financial statements and proxy statements, and sold Company stock while in possession of material non public information. The plaintiff seeks, among other things, unspecified monetary damages against the individual defendants, certain equitable and other relief relating to the profits from the alleged improper conduct, the adoption of certain Company corporate governance proposals, the imposition of a constructive trust over the defendants stock options and proceeds, punitive damages, the rescission of certain unexercised options, and the reimbursement of litigation costs. The plaintiff is not seeking any monetary relief from the Company. Policies of directors and officers liability insurance are in force, subject to customary limits and exclusions. The complaint is based on a statistical analysis of stock option grants and Leggett stock prices that we believe is flawed. We believe this lawsuit does not take into consideration important aspects of Leggetts stock option plans. For example, the plaintiff has noted only one set of stock option grants, made on December 30, 2005, within what we believe to be the applicable 5 year statute of limitations. These option grants were made in accordance with the Companys Deferred Compensation Program, which (i) provided that options would be dated on the last business day of December, and (ii) was filed with the SEC on December 2, 2005 setting out the pricing mechanism well before the grant date. We provided plaintiffs counsel with this publicly available documentation before they dismissed the prior federal court lawsuit. The Company expects that the outcome of this litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. For additional information regarding contingencies, please refer to Note P on page 122 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Not applicable. 27 Table of Contents PART I Supplemental Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant. The following information is included in accordance with the provisions of Part III, Item 10 of Form 10 K and Item 401(b) of Regulation S K. The table below sets forth the names, ages and positions of all executive officers of the Company. Executive officers are normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors. Name Age Position David S. Haffner 56 President and Chief Executive Officer Karl G. Glassman 50 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Jack D. Crusa 54 Senior Vice President, President Specialized Products Joseph D. Downes, Jr. 64 Senior Vice President, President Industrial Materials Matthew C. Flanigan 47 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Paul R. Hauser 57 Senior Vice President, President Residential Furnishings Ernest C. Jett 63 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Dennis S. Park 54 Senior Vice President, President Commercial Fixturing & Components David M. DeSonier 50 Vice President Strategy & Investor Relations John G. Moore 48 Vice President Corporate Affairs & Human Resources William S. Weil 50 Vice President Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Subject to the employment agreements (which expire May 7, 2009) and severance benefit agreements with Messrs. Haffner and Glassman, listed as exhibits to this Report, the executive officers generally serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. David S. Haffner was appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2006 and has served as President of the Company since 2002. He served as Chief Operating Officer from 1999 to 2006 and as the Companys Executive Vice President from 1995 to 2002. He has served the Company in other capacities since 1983. Karl G. Glassman was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2006 and has served as Executive Vice President of the Company since 2002. He served as President of the Residential Furnishings Segment from 1999 to 2006, as Senior Vice President of the Company from 1999 to 2002 and as President of Bedding Components from 1996 to 1998. He has served the Company in other capacities since 1982. Jack D. Crusa has served the Company as Senior Vice President since 1999 and President of Specialized Products since 2003. He previously served as President of the Industrial Materials Segment from 1999 through 2004, as President of the Automotive Group from 1996 through 1999 and in various other capacities since 1986. Joseph D. Downes, Jr. was appointed Senior Vice President of the Company in 2005 and President of the Industrial Materials Segment in 2004. He previously served the Company as President of the Wire Group from 1999 to 2004 and in various other capacities since 1976. Matthew C. Flanigan has served the Company as Senior Vice President since 2005 and as Chief Financial Officer since 2003. Mr. Flanigan previously served the Company as Vice President from 2003 to 2005, as Vice President and President of the Office Furniture Components Group from 1999 to 2003 and as Staff Vice President of Operations from 1997 to 1999. 28 Table of Contents PART I Paul R. Hauser became Senior Vice President of the Company in 2005 and President of the Residential Furnishings Segment in 2006. He previously served as Vice President of the Company and President of the Bedding Group from 1999 to 2006. He served in various capacities in the Companys Bedding Group since 1980. Ernest C. Jett became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in 2005. He was appointed General Counsel in 1997 and Vice President and Secretary in 1995. He previously served the Company as Assistant General Counsel from 1979 to 1995 and as Managing Director of the Legal Department from 1991 to 1997. Dennis S. Park became Senior Vice President and President of the Commercial Fixturing & Components Segment in 2006. In 2004, he was named President of the Home Furniture and Consumer Products Group and became Vice President of the Company and President of Home Furniture Components in 1996. He served the Company in various other capacities since 1977. David M. DeSonier was appointed Vice President Strategy & Investor Relations in 2007. He served as Vice President Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer from 2002 to 2007. He joined the Company as Vice President Investor Relations in 2000. Prior to his employment with Leggett & Platt, he worked for Atlantic Richfield (a major integrated oil company) from 1980 to 2000 in strategic planning, investor relations, financial management and analysis, and technical positions. John G. Moore was appointed Vice President Corporate Affairs & Human Resources in 2008. He served as Vice President Corporate Governance and Deputy Secretary from 2006 to 2008, as Vice President and Associate General Counsel from 2001 to 2006, and as Managing Counsel and Assistant General Counsel from 1998 to 2001. He has served the Company in other capacities since 1994. William S. Weil has served the Company as Chief Accounting Officer since February 2004. He became Vice President in 2000 and has served the Company as Corporate Controller since 1991. He previously served the Company in various other accounting capacities since 1983. 29 Table of Contents PART II PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol LEG). The table below highlights quarterly and annual stock market information for the last two years. Price Range Volume ofShares Traded(in Millions) DividendDeclared High Low 2008 First Quarter $ 19.48 $ 14.59 142.4 $ .25 Second Quarter 19.56 14.12 146.0 .25 Third Quarter 24.60 14.22 224.4 .25 Fourth Quarter 22.95 12.03 182.9 .25 For the Year $ 24.60 $ 12.03 695.7 $ 1.00 2007 First Quarter $ 24.71 $ 22.12 68.0 $ .17 Second Quarter 24.73 21.40 93.4 .18 Third Quarter 22.78 18.75 94.9 .18 Fourth Quarter 20.89 17.14 116.3 .25 For the Year $ 24.73 $ 17.14 372.6 $ .78 Price and volume data reflect composite transactions; price range reflects intra day prices; data source is Bloomberg. Shareholders and Dividends As of February 15, 2009, we estimate that we had approximately 31,500 shareholders, which included approximately 11,500 shareholders of record (i.e. stock certificates are issued in the name of the owner) and approximately 20,000 beneficial shareholders (i.e. stock is held for the owner by their stockbroker in the name of the brokerage firm). At year end, institutional investors (e.g. mutual funds, pension funds) as a group held an estimated 80% of our common stock; the ten largest positions held an estimated 37%. As part of our 2007 Strategic Plan, we increased our quarterly dividend to the current rate of $.25 per share from the previous rate of $.18 per share. We are targeting a dividend payout ratio (annual dividends divided by net earnings) of 50 60%, though it has been and will likely be higher for the next few years. See the discussion of the Companys targeted dividend payout under Pay Dividends in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation on page 53. 30 Table of Contents PART II Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities The table below is a listing of our repurchases of the Companys common stock during the fourth quarter of 2008. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased Average Price Paidper Share Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly AnnouncedPlans or Programs(1) MaximumNumber of Sharesthat May Yet BePurchased Underthe Plans orPrograms(1) October 1 31, 2008 816,284 $ 16.15 816,284 14,424,921 (2) November 1 30, 2008 588,721 $ 14.88 588,721 13,836,200 (2) December 1 31, 2008 100,661 $ 14.31 100,661 10,000,000 (2) Total 1,505,666 $ 15.53 1,505,666 (1) On August 4, 2004, the Board authorized management to repurchase up to 10 million shares each calendar year beginning January 1, 2005. This standing authorization was first reported in the quarterly report on Form 10 Q for the period ended June 30, 2004, filed August 5, 2004, and will remain in force until repealed by the Board of Directors. On November 13, 2007 the Board accelerated the 10 million share standing repurchase authorization for the 2008 calendar year to begin November 15, 2007. The acceleration was first reported in the Companys press release issued November 13, 2007 and filed on Form 8 K on November 14, 2007. As of December 31, 2007 there were no shares left under the 2007 calendar year standing authorization (which expired December 31, 2007) and 8,904,650 shares left under the 2008 standing authorization. By the end of July 2008, we had purchased all of the shares under the 2008 standing authorization. (2) On February 21, 2008, the Board approved the repurchase of an additional 20 million shares during the 2008 calendar year at managements discretion, limited to the amount of divestiture proceeds. This special authorization was first publicly announced in the Companys press release dated February 21, 2008. In 2008, we purchased 6,264,461 shares under the special 20 million share authorization. The special 20 million share authorization expired December 31, 2008. As referenced in note (1) above, on January 1, 2009, the Company was authorized to purchase 10 million shares in 2009. Sale of Unregistered Shares of Common Stock The Company issued 75,000 shares of common stock at fair market value to David S. Haffner, President and Chief Executive Officer and Jack D. Crusa, Senior Vice President and President of Specialized Products, as set out below. Name Date ofIssuance Number ofShares Priceper Share AdministrativeFee TotalPurchasePrice David S. Haffner 10/27/08 25,000 $ 14.59 $ 500 $ 365,250 11/20/08 5,000 $ 12.24 $ 100 $ 61,300 2/09/09 5,000 $ 13.78 $ 100 $ 69,000 2/10/09 4,000 $ 12.97 $ 80 $ 51,960 2/12/09 6,000 $ 12.81 $ 120 $ 76,980 2/17/09 5,000 $ 12.57 $ 100 $ 62,950 2/18/09 3,000 $ 12.45 $ 60 $ 37,410 2/20/09 8,000 $ 12.26 $ 160 $ 98,240 2/23/09 10,000 $ 11.75 $ 200 $ 117,700 Totals 71,000 $ 1,420 $ 940,790 Jack D. Crusa 2/18/09 4,000 $ 12.45 $ 80 $ 49,880 The shares were exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, in that the transactions did not involve a public offering. 31 Table of Contents PART II During the second quarter of 2000, the Companys Canadian subsidiary issued certain exchangeable shares which were convertible, on a one to one ratio, into shares of Leggett common stock in connection with the acquisition of Schukra Manufacturing, Inc., a Canadian corporation. On December 16, 2008, as a result of the conversion of some of the exchangeable shares, the Company issued 120,452 shares of its common stock to four of the former Schukra owners (listed below) in a transaction which qualified for exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 by virtue of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, in that the issuances did not involve a public offering. The closing price of Leggett common stock on the NYSE on December 16, 2008 was $15.52. Name of Shareholder Number of Shares Issued Jessica Cosentino 35,113 Ricardo Cosentino 35,113 Victoria Cosentino 35,113 Mafalda Cosentino 15,113 Totals 120,452 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. (Unaudited) 20081 20072, 3 20063 20053 20043 (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Summary of Operations Net Sales from Continuing Operations $ 4,076 $ 4,250 $ 4,267 $ 4,197 $ 4,055 Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 123 59 236 216 235 Net Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax (19 ) (70 ) 64 35 50 Net Earnings (Loss) 104 (11 ) 300 251 285 Earnings per share from Continuing Operations Basic .73 .33 1.26 1.12 1.20 Diluted .73 .33 1.26 1.12 1.20 Earnings (Loss) per share from Discontinued Operations Basic (.11 ) (.39 ) .35 .18 .26 Diluted (.11 ) (.39 ) .35 .18 .25 Net Earnings (Loss) per share Basic .62 (.06 ) 1.61 1.30 1.46 Diluted .62 (.06 ) 1.61 1.30 1.45 Cash Dividends declared per share 1.00 .78 .67 .63 .58 Summary of Financial Position Total Assets $ 3,162 $ 4,072 $ 4,265 $ 4,072 $ 4,197 Long term Debt, including capital leases $ 851 $ 1,001 $ 1,060 $ 922 $ 779 1 As discussed in Notes C and D beginning on pages 91 and 95 respectively, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring related charges totaling $84 million in 2008. Of these charges, approximately $33 million were associated with continuing operations and $51 million related to discontinued operations. 2 As discussed in Notes C and D beginning on pages 91 and 95 respectively, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring related charges totaling $305 million in 2007. Of these charges, approximately $159 million were associated with continuing operations and $146 million related to discontinued operations. 3 As discussed in Note A on page 86, the amounts for 2004 through 2007 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect certain businesses as discontinued operations. 32 Table of Contents PART II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. 2008 HIGHLIGHTS In 2008, there were two significant and opposing forces in play. On the positive side, we successfully implemented Leggetts most significant strategic changes in quite some time. On the negative side, the U.S. economy and stock market suffered from their worst performance in decades. In late 2007 we unveiled plans to significantly change the companys strategic course. We have not yet reached our long term performance targets (for margins and returns) but we made substantial strategic strides in 2008. We adopted TSR as our primary strategic objective and introduced TSR based incentives for senior executives. We set a goal to consistently achieve TSR within the top 1/3 of the S&P 500, which we believe will require average annual TSR of 12 15%. We also adopted role based portfolio management and implemented a formal, rigorous strategic planning process to continually assess each business units role in the portfolio. During the year, we divested five businesses (including the Aluminum Products segment) for total after tax proceeds in excess of $400 million, and contracted our Store Fixtures business unit to a smaller, metal focused operation that should generate higher profit. We also increased our quarterly dividend by 39% and repurchased 16 million shares of our stock. Late in the third quarter of 2008, our markets weakened appreciably as consumers reined in their spending in light of the financial market distress and general U.S. and global economic conditions. Weak market demand, partially offset by market share gains in certain businesses, led to lower sales and earnings in 2008. We met our goal to achieve TSR within the top 1/3 of the S&P 500; in fact, our 2008 TSR ranked within the top 10%. However, TSRs in general (for all companies) were significantly depressed, and only 5% of the S&P 500 posted a positive TSR in 2008. Our TSR of negative 7% was well below the 12 15% we anticipate over the long term. Though strong in 2008, cash from operations was lower than the record set in 2007 primarily due to a smaller year over year decrease in working capital. Cash from operations has been and is expected to continue to be sufficient to fund both capital expenditures and dividends. We are well situated to weather this challenging economic environment. We ended the year with net debt (as a percentage of net capital) below our long term, targeted range; no significant long term debt matures until 2012; and we have more than $500 million available under our existing commercial paper program and revolver facility. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. 33 Table of Contents PART II INTRODUCTION What We Do Leggett & Platt is a diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs, and produces a wide range of engineered components and products found in most homes, offices, and automobiles, and many retail stores. We make components that are often hidden within, but integral to, our customers products. We are North Americas leading independent manufacturer of: components for residential furniture and bedding, carpet underlay, components for office furniture, drawn steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and bedding industry machinery. Our Segments Our continuing operations are composed of 20 business units in four segments, with approximately 20,000 employee partners, and more than 160 production facilities located in 18 countries around the world. Our segments are described below. Residential Furnishings This segment supplies a variety of components mainly used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. We also sell carpet cushion, adjustable beds, bed frames, ornamental beds, and geo components. Commercial Fixturing & Components Operations in this segment manufacture and sell store fixtures and point of purchase displays used in retail stores. We also produce chair controls, bases, and other components for office furniture manufacturers. 34 Table of Contents PART II Industrial Materials These operations primarily supply steel rod, drawn steel wire, steel billets, and welded steel tubing to other Leggett operations and to external customers. Our wire and tubing is used to make bedding, furniture, automotive seats, wire retail fixtures, mechanical springs, and many other end products. Specialized Products From this segment we supply lumbar systems and wire components used by automotive seating manufacturers. We manufacture and install the racks, shelving and cabinets used to outfit fleets of service vans. We also produce machinery, both for ourselves and for others, including bedding manufacturers. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures During the past two years, we have divested six businesses. In 2008, we sold our Aluminum Products segment and four smaller business units (Wood Products, Fibers, Plastics, and the dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products). We received after tax cash proceeds of $408 million for these five businesses; we also received subordinated notes and preferred stock. In early 2007, we sold our Prime Foam operations. Two additional business units (Coated Fabrics and Storage Products) are also targeted for divestiture. All of these businesses, including the two that remain, are disclosed in our financial statements as discontinued operations. For the remaining divestitures, we expect to recover the carrying value of the net assets held for sale. Net assets classified as held for sale totaled $54 million at December 31, 2008 (this includes $22 million not associated with the remaining divestitures). Recent market conditions have delayed the expected timing of the sale of these remaining businesses; completing these transactions remains a high priority for 2009. Strategic Direction During 2007, we completed an extensive review of our business portfolio in an effort to enhance shareholder return. For each business unit, we considered factors such as competitive advantages, market position, financial performance, and potential growth opportunities. We have made significant changes to our financial targets, portfolio mix, and planning processes as a result of the review. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is now the key success measure that we use to monitor performance. TSR is driven by the change in our share price and the dividends we pay [TSR (Change in Stock Price + Dividends) / Beginning Stock Price]. There are four key sources of TSR: revenue growth, margin expansion, dividends, and share repurchases. Historically, our primary objective was profitable growth. Going forward, we intend to generate higher TSR through a balanced approach that employs all four sources of TSR. We have modified our incentive plans to emphasize the importance of, and reward, TSR. Beginning in 2008, we introduced TSR based incentives for senior executives and modified business unit bonuses to give more importance to achieving higher returns on the assets under their direct control. 35 Table of Contents PART II We have adopted role based portfolio management and will concentrate future investments in businesses with strong competitive advantages and financial health. Certain of our businesses (categorized as Grow) are positioned to generate value through further growth, while others (categorized as Core) are positioned to drive value by improving EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and optimizing operating cash flow while employing minimal amounts of capital. We allocate capital to each business unit based upon its role in the portfolio. We plan to invest in Grow businesses that hold strong competitive positions and consistently achieve compelling returns on those investments. We plan to maintain or improve our competitive position in Core businesses that typically hold stable positions in solid markets, and focus on improving returns but limit further investment in these operations. In total, we anticipate lower capital expenditures and fewer acquisitions in the near term. We have implemented a more rigorous strategic planning process to continually assess our business units and help guide future decisions regarding the role of each business unit, capital allocation priorities, and new areas in which to grow. We review the portfolio classification of each unit at least on an annual basis to determine its appropriate role. This review includes several different criteria such as competitive position, market conditions, business unit size, and fit within our overall objectives, as well as financial indicators such as EBITDA and operating cash flows relative to the amount of capital employed. To remain in the portfolio, business units are expected to consistently generate after tax returns in excess of our cost of capital. Business units may employ a variety of means to achieve higher returns, including trimming expenses, introducing new products, improving productivity, adopting more disciplined pricing, reducing working capital, and consolidating assets. Business units that fail to attain minimum return goals will be moved to the Fix or Divest categories. As a result of the 2007 strategic review, we narrowed our focus and eliminated approximately 15% of our portfolio through the divestiture of the Aluminum Products segment and four additional business units (two other divestitures remain). We also placed our Store Fixtures business unit into the Fix category and gave it a one year period in which to improve returns to at least cost of capital levels. In the third quarter of 2008, we concluded that the Store Fixtures unit, in its previous form, was not capable of meeting our return requirements. As a result, we narrowed the units scope to focus primarily on the metals part of the fixtures industry, in alignment with Leggetts core competency of producing steel and steel related products. We consolidated four wood store fixtures operations into two facilities and will continue to produce a reduced amount of wood fixtures in order to meet the blended requirements (i.e. metal and wood) of certain of our customers. We also effected changes to senior management, further reduced the units overhead, and purged additional customer accounts with unacceptable margins. These changes are expected to trim annual trade sales for the Store Fixtures business unit from a run rate in late 2008 of approximately $325 million to approximately $250 $275 million in 2009, and we expect annual returns to at least match our cost of capital. The unit is now considered a Core business within our portfolio; as such, its primary focus is to optimize operating cash flow and improve profit while minimizing its use of capital. 36 Table of Contents PART II Activities related to the Fix and Divest businesses resulted in charges that impacted our operating results in 2007 and 2008. Those charges are discussed on page 40 under the section titled Asset Impairments and Restructuring related Charges. The strategic changes have increased available cash, and we are returning much of this cash to shareholders. In November 2007, the Board of Directors authorized a 39% dividend increase, moving the quarterly rate to $.25 per share (from the previous $.18). For the year 2008, we also repurchased nearly 16 million shares of our stock, fully exhausting our annual repurchase authorization (of 10 million shares), and partially utilizing the supplementary authorization to purchase additional shares with proceeds from the divestitures. We expect to continue repurchasing our shares, but the timing of those repurchases will depend on several factors, including general economic and market conditions, the price of Leggett stock, and our working capital needs. Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with no single one representing even 5% of our sales. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture and bedding, a variety of other manufacturers, and many major retailers. Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are market demand, recent economic events, raw material cost trends, and competition. Market Demand Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Recent Economic Events In light of recent distress in the financial and credit markets (and the related impact on U.S. and global economies) we have been impacted, and may continue to be impacted, in several different areas as discussed below. Lower Market Wide Demand. Throughout 2007 and 2008, demand weakness in the U.S. home related, retail, and other markets led to lower unit order activity, sales and earnings in our businesses. Several factors, including a weak U.S. economy, higher energy costs, a depressed housing market, and low consumer confidence contributed to conservative spending habits by U.S. consumers. Late in the third quarter of 2008, our global markets weakened appreciably as consumers further reined in spending during this period of credit concerns and stock market volatility. Short lead times in most of our markets allow for very limited long term visibility into demand trends; however, we 37 Table of Contents PART II currently expect market demand to be soft in 2009. Despite the global economic decline, we have gained market share in our U.S. bedding components businesses primarily due to (i) bedding manufacturers shifting innerspring purchases from international to domestic sources as a result of antidumping duties imposed on imported innersprings from China, South Africa, and Vietnam; (ii) the deverticalization of a strong regional bedding manufacturer (they now buy from us components they had previously produced for themselves); and (iii) increased demand for innerspring mattresses, rather than premium priced, non innerspring products. These market share gains offset some of the demand weakness. Customers and Suppliers. Due to the recent tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit, our customers may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary cash for their purchases. Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by the current credit and financial market conditions causing delays in product deliveries to us. These delays could negatively impact our customers and suppliers ability to conduct business and could adversely affect our unit order activity and sales, and therefore negatively impact our cash flows and liquidity. Managements Response to Recent Economic Events. Activities completed over the past few years (including the divestiture of businesses under our strategic plan, closure of underperforming and underutilized facilities, elimination of sales with unacceptable margins, and other cost reduction initiatives) improved our cost position in advance of the late 2008 economic contraction. In response to the recent economic events, we reduced production and were running well below our normal utilization levels during the fourth quarter 2008 in an effort to bring inventories in line with current demand. We have further reduced headcount, overhead costs, and capital spending, and are completing the closure of certain facilities. Given our balance sheet, operating cash flow and access to credit, we expect to be able to endure an extended downturn in market demand with no material impact to our financial position or liquidity. Raw Material Costs In many of our businesses, we enjoy a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that many of our competitors generally do not have. Still, our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. Purchasing arrangements vary across the Company. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly our raw material costs generally move with the market. In certain of our businesses, we have longer term purchase contracts with pricing terms that provide stability under reasonable market conditions. However, when commodities experience extreme inflation, vendors do not always honor those contracts. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Conversely, when costs decrease significantly, we generally pass a portion of those lower costs through to our customers. The timing of our price increases or decreases is a critical factor; we typically experience a lag in recovering higher costs, so we also expect to realize a lag as costs decline. 38 Table of Contents PART II Steel is our principal raw material and at various times in past years we have experienced extreme cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers via selling price adjustments. In late 2007 we began seeing higher steel costs, and significant increases occurred in 2008. We implemented price increases to recover these higher costs. Market prices began to abate late in the year, but for certain types of steel, continued to be well above prior year levels. With the precipitous drop in market demand beginning late in the third quarter, and the need to reduce inventories (that were purchased before steel costs declined), at year end we had not yet made substantial purchases of the lower cost steel. Our other raw materials include woven and non woven fabrics, foam scrap, fibers, and chemicals. We have experienced changes in the cost of these materials in recent years, and typically pass them through to our customers. When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We experienced this de contenting effect in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments in recent years, as our customers changed the quantity and mix of components in their finished goods to address steel and chemical inflation. Our profit margins were negatively impacted by this de contenting. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of innersprings and boxsprings) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and in certain instances, provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Some of these new products were introduced during 2007, with production of those products ramping up in 2008. Competition Many of our markets are highly competitive with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. We believe we gain competitive advantage in our global markets through low cost operations, significant internal production of key raw materials, superior manufacturing expertise and product innovation, higher quality products, extensive customer service capabilities, and greater financial strength. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering product quality, innovation, and customer service. We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. We currently operate 11 facilities in China. In recent years we experienced increased competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. We reacted to this competition by selectively adjusting prices, and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. The increased price competition for bedding components was partially due to lower wire costs in China. Asian manufacturers benefit from cost advantages for commodities such as 39 Table of Contents PART II steel and chemicals. Foreign manufacturers also benefit from lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. In late 2007, we filed an antidumping suit related to innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam. We saw a distinct decline in unfair imports during 2008 after the antidumping investigations began, and as a result, we regained market share. The investigations were brought to a favorable conclusion in early 2009. We should see improved performance in our Bedding group as imported innersprings from these countries will now have to be sold at fair prices. The current antidumping duty rates on innersprings from these countries are significant, ranging from 116% to 234%, and will remain in effect for at least 5 years. Asset Impairments and Restructuring related Charges Net impairment and restructuring related charges (for both continuing and discontinued operations) totaled $84 million in 2008 and $305 million in 2007. The majority of these charges occurred as a result of the strategic changes announced in late 2007. Those details are discussed in the paragraphs below. Net impairment and restructuring related charges not associated with the 2007 Strategic Plan totaled $31 million in 2008 and $17 million in 2007. In the fourth quarter 2007, we recognized $287 million (primarily non cash) of impairment and restructuring related charges associated with the 2007 Strategic Plan. These charges (which included both continuing and discontinued operations) include goodwill impairments for the Fixture & Display reporting unit of $143 million and the Aluminum reporting unit of $83 million. Goodwill and asset impairment charges related to other held for sale businesses totaled $51 million. Restructuring related charges totaled $10 million. In 2008, we incurred additional costs totaling $53 million related to the 2007 Strategic Plan. This total includes $6 million of restructuring related costs, $26 million of goodwill impairment charges, $7 million of asset impairment charges, and $14 million of losses from sale of assets. To date, we have incurred total costs associated with the 2007 Strategic Plan of $340 million ($153 million in continuing operations and $187 million in discontinued operations) and believe the activity to be substantially complete. For further information about asset impairments and restructuring, see Notes C and D to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 91 and 95. As discussed on pages 4 and 36, in late 2007 the Store Fixtures business unit was placed in the Fix category and given a one year period in which to improve returns to at least cost of capital levels. In the fall of 2008, we concluded that the business unit should be contracted to a smaller, metal focused business. This strategy change did not result in any goodwill impairment charges. The Store Fixtures business unit is included in our Fixture & Display reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes. We conduct an annual review for potential goodwill impairment (in June) and long lived asset impairment (at year end) for all of our reporting units. We also review for potential impairment if an event or change in circumstance occurs that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its 40 Table of Contents PART II carrying amount or impact the recoverability of the assets. At December 31, 2008, the Fixture & Display reporting unit had $106 million of goodwill and $64 million of other long lived assets ($62 million of the long lived assets were associated with the Store Fixtures business unit). For further information regarding the methodology we use for impairment testing, the assumptions we use for this testing and the potential for future impairment, refer to Critical Accounting Policies on page 60, and also Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 91. 41 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2008 vs. 2007 During 2008, sales from continuing operations decreased 4%. We reported full year net earnings from continuing operations of $123 million, which included $21 million of restructuring related charges, impairments, and other items. Our 2008 earnings reflected extremely soft market demand which led to lower unit volume in many of our businesses. In the majority of our markets, demand was soft throughout the year, but weakened appreciably late in the third quarter as consumers further reduced their spending in response to the financial market distress and general U.S. and global economic conditions. Market share gains in certain businesses offset some of the impact from weak demand. During the year, we also experienced significant inflation in steel costs, and we successfully implemented price increases to recover the majority of these higher costs. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2008, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. Reported amounts for 2007 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the reclassification of our Coated Fabrics business unit from continuing to discontinued operations. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 4,250 Acquisition sales growth 35 0.8 % Small divestitures (41 ) (0.9 )% Internal sales decline: Approximate inflation 285 6.7 % Approximate unit volume decline (453 ) (10.7 )% Internal sales decline (168 ) (4.0 )% Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 4,076 (4.1 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 59 Goodwill impairment in Fixture & Display 120 Restructuring related charges (4 ) Asset impairment (4 ) Interest expense (net) 6 Tax items 12 Other factors including lower unit volume and production (66 ) Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 123 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2007 $ 0.33 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2008 $ 0.73 42 Table of Contents PART II Sales from continuing operations decreased 4% versus 2007, primarily reflecting extremely weak market demand and our decision to exit specific sales volume with unacceptable profit margins (primarily in our Store Fixtures business). These declines were partially offset by inflation related price increases and market share gains. Our U.S. bedding components business gained market share in 2008 as a result of: i) bedding manufacturers shifting innerspring purchases from international to domestic sources; ii) the deverticalization of a strong regional bedding manufacturer; and, iii) increased demand for innerspring mattresses, rather than premium priced, non innerspring products. We experienced significant inflation in steel costs during 2008, and in response, we implemented price increases to recover the higher costs. The magnitude of our selling price increases varied by product line depending on steel content, but in our major Residential and Industrial businesses, prices increased substantially. In recent months, steel costs have abated. As costs were increasing, we experienced a lag in recovering them; likewise, as costs decline we also expect to realize a lag in any price reductions we give back to our customers. Full year earnings from continuing operations were higher than in 2007, primarily due to: Non recurrence of 2007 goodwill impairment charges related to our Fixture & Display group ($120 million) Non recurrence of 2007 tax items ($12 million) adjustments to valuation allowances related to potential foreign tax benefits Lower interest expense Several factors negatively impacted earnings. The most significant were: Unit volume declines (down roughly 10% for the year) Higher restructuring related charges and asset impairments ($19 million) Reduced production levels with the significant pull back in demand late in the year, we cut production (even below depressed demand levels) and reduced inventories LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. Significant steel cost increases during the year, along with moderately higher levels of these steel related inventories, resulted in LIFO expense from continuing operations of $62 million in 2008 (versus a $1 million benefit in 2007). Segment level earnings in 2008 generally benefited under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs. For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 82. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense decreased $9 million versus 2007, primarily the result of debt maturities paid in 2007 and 2008, as well as lower commercial paper borrowings. 43 Table of Contents PART II The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate for 2008 was also lower, at 34.6% versus 58.1% in 2007. The 2007 rate was negatively impacted by goodwill impairment charges totaling $143 million, of which $95 million were non deductible. This caused the 2007 rate as a percent of pre tax income to be much higher than normal. In 2008, a tax benefit associated with the write off of an acquired companys stock was offset by increased reserves for uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances against deferred tax assets for certain foreign entities. In the third quarter of 2008, we recorded a $4 million valuation allowance against certain foreign tax assets. The valuation allowance related to our Canadian automotive operations that produce lumbar supports. The automotive industry is currently in a dramatic state of decline, which has reduced the demand for our components. In addition to demand factors, these operations have also been negatively impacted by the strength in recent years of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar (our Canadian automotive operations sell in U.S. dollars while incurring labor and overhead costs in Canadian dollars, thereby reducing margins). As a result, we believe it is more likely than not we wont realize the benefit of deferred tax assets associated with these operations. As a result of recording this tax valuation allowance, we specifically reviewed expected future cash flows for this component of the Automotive Reporting Unit as part of the annual long lived asset impairment review. Based upon current facts and circumstances, we believe that the carrying value of these operations is recoverable through future operating cash flows. Performance in 2007 and the first half of 2008 was negatively impacted by the strength of the Canadian versus the U.S. Dollar. While it is difficult to predict the future movement in exchange rates, the Canadian dollar has recently weakened versus the U.S. Dollar. If that trend were to continue, this would contribute to the improvement of margins going forward. The carrying value of these operations was $51 million at December 31, 2008, and we expect the future cash flows to recover those assets. Currently, the operations generate positive cash flows that we expect to improve in 2009 through the combination of overhead reductions and reduced material costs caused by expected lower steel prices. We continue to be awarded new product placements so we believe market share loss is not a factor impacting recent performance. Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2008 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. The Residential Furnishings reported amounts for 2007 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the reclassification of our Coated Fabrics business unit from continuing to discontinued operations. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117. 44 Table of Contents PART II Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 2,120 $ 151 7.1 % Year ended December 31, 2007 2,254 174 7.7 % Decrease $ (134 ) $ (23 ) % decrease (6 )% (13 )% Internal sales decrease (5 )% Small divestitures (1 )% Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2008, reflecting weak market demand. This decrease was partially offset by inflation related price increases and market share gains in our U.S. bedding business (discussed under Consolidated Results above). Demand in our U.S. residential markets was weak throughout 2008, but softened further in late September reflecting reduced spending by consumers on large ticket items that contain our products. International markets, which were relatively stronger earlier in the year, also experienced much softer demand in the latter part of the year as a result of deteriorating global economic conditions. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2007 due to lower sales and higher asset impairments and restructuring related costs (of $14 million), partially offset by a gain from the sale of a business (of $8 million) and operating improvements in certain locations. Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 711 $ 14 2.0 % Year ended December 31, 2007 837 (104 ) (12.4 )% (Decrease) increase $ (126 ) $ 118 % (decrease) increase (15 )% 113 % Internal sales decrease (15 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2008 due to several factors, including our decision in the Store Fixtures business to exit specific sales volume with unacceptable margins, reduced capital spending by retailers, and lower demand for office furniture components. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus the prior year, primarily due to the non recurrence of last years goodwill impairment charge (of $143 million), partially offset by lower sales. 45 Table of Contents PART II Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 966 $ 96 9.9 % Year ended December 31, 2007 776 55 7.1 % Increase $ 190 $ 41 % increase 24 % 75 % Internal sales increase 24 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 2008 sales increased significantly, primarily from the pass through of higher steel costs and increased sales of steel billets. Ongoing weak demand in many of our markets (including bedding, furniture, and automotive) offset a portion of the sales gain. EBIT and EBIT margins also increased versus 2007, primarily due to higher sales and operating improvements in certain locations. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 682 $ 41 6.0 % Year ended December 31, 2007 715 65 9.1 % Decrease $ (33 ) $ (24 ) % decrease (5 )% (37 )% Internal sales decrease (5 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2008, primarily reflecting weak demand that continued throughout the year in our North American automotive business and the fleet portion of Commercial Vehicle Products. Our machinery and European and Asian automotive businesses posted full year sales growth despite demand softening late in the year. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the prior year, mainly due to lower sales, higher restructuring related costs (of $4 million), and higher steel costs with limited recovery. Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $52 million, from a loss of $71 million in 2007 to a loss of $19 million in 2008. This earnings increase was primarily due to lower asset impairments and restructuring related charges (of $90 million), partially offset by the non recurrence of a 2007 tax benefit (of $30 million) associated with a difference in book and tax basis of an acquired companys stock as a result of reaching held for sale status. 46 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2007 vs. 2006 During 2007, sales from continuing operations decreased slightly. We reported a full year net loss of $.06 per share due to non cash charges following the implementation of the strategic plan announced in November 2007. Operationally, 2007 earnings reflected ongoing soft demand in the U.S. residential markets. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2007, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. Reported amounts for 2007 and 2006 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the reclassification of our Coated Fabrics business unit from continuing to discontinued operations. Amount % (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 4,267 Acquisition sales growth 119 2.8 % Small divestitures (27 ) (0.6 )% Internal sales decline (109 ) (2.6 )% Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 4,250 (0.4 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 236 Goodwill impairment in Fixture & Display (120 ) Asset impairment (3 ) Higher restructuring related charges (4 ) Tax items (24 ) Other factors including lower internal sales, partially offset by earnings from recent acquisitions (26 ) Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 59 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2006 $ 1.26 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2007 $ 0.33 During 2007, sales from continuing operations decreased slightly, with acquisition growth (net of small divestitures) more than offset by lower internal sales (i.e. excluding acquisitions and divestitures). We experienced soft demand throughout 2007 in the U.S. home related and retail markets that we serve, but these declines were partially offset by strength in most of our international markets and the non dealer portion of the domestic Commercial Vehicle Products business. These trends are discussed in the segment results below. Full year earnings from continuing operations of $.33 per share were significantly lower than the prior year, primarily due to the non cash charges and tax items, but also from weak demand in many of our domestic markets. 47 Table of Contents PART II Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense in 2007 was generally comparable to 2006. The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate in 2007 was 58.1%, versus 29.6% in 2006. The 2006 rate was below historical levels primarily due to the benefit from the write off of an acquired companys stock, and a reduction in the valuation allowance for foreign tax credits recorded in 2005 as part of a foreign entity restructuring and cash repatriation transaction. The 2007 rate was negatively impacted by goodwill impairment charges totaling $143 million, of which $95 million were non deductible. This caused the 2007 rate as a percent of pre tax income to be much higher than normal. Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2007 sales and EBIT from continuing operations for each of our segments. The Residential Furnishings reported amounts for 2007 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the reclassification of our Coated Fabrics business unit from continuing to discontinued operations. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 2,254 $ 174 7.7 % Year ended December 31, 2006 2,358 231 9.8 % Decrease $ (104 ) $ (57 ) % decrease (4 )% (25 )% Internal sales decrease (6 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 2 % Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2007, reflecting lower internal sales. Acquisitions (net of two small divestitures) partially offset the decline. The sales decrease is primarily due to soft demand in the U.S. residential markets during 2007 and very strong sales in our carpet underlay business during 2006. International demand for both bedding and upholstered furniture components was considerably stronger, and partially offset the domestic sales declines. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2006 primarily due to the internal sales decline. Lower asset impairment and restructuring related charges ($9 million in 2007 vs. $12 million in 2006) and earnings from recent acquisitions partially offset the EBIT impact from reduced sales. 48 Table of Contents PART II Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 837 $ (104 ) (12.4 )% Year ended December 31, 2006 861 60 7.0 % Decrease $ (24 ) $ (164 ) % decrease (3 )% (273 )% Internal sales decrease (3 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2007, primarily due to lower Store Fixtures volume and our decision to walk away from sales with unacceptable margins, but also from slightly lower demand for office furniture components. EBIT and EBIT margins were significantly lower than 2006, primarily due to a large, non cash goodwill impairment charge. The major factors impacting EBIT were: Goodwill impairment ($143 million) Higher asset impairment and restructuring related charges ($14 million in 2007 vs. $3 million in 2006) Lower internal sales These items were partially offset by gains from the sales of assets ($8 million). Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 776 $ 55 7.1 % Year ended December 31, 2006 784 55 7.0 % Decrease $ (8 ) $ % decrease (1 )% 0 % Internal sales decrease (3 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 2 % Internal sales declined during the year, but this decrease was mostly offset by acquisitions (net of small divestitures). Continued softness in the U.S. residential markets led to lower unit volume in our wire operations, but this decline was partially offset by inflation related sales growth (from price increases we implemented to recover higher raw material costs). EBIT and EBIT margins were flat with the prior year, as the impact of lower sales was offset by earnings from an acquired business. 49 Table of Contents PART II Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 715 $ 65 9.1 % Year ended December 31, 2006 621 43 6.9 % Increase $ 94 $ 22 % increase 15 % 51 % Internal sales growth 11 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 4 % Strong sales increases in 2007 reflected world wide growth in our automotive business, and continued solid performance in the non dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products. Acquisitions (net of a small divestiture) also contributed to higher sales during the year. EBIT and EBIT margins improved significantly, reflecting higher sales in the segment and earnings from a company acquired early in 2007. These gains were partially offset as the strength of the Canadian dollar negatively impacted our automotive business (we incur costs in Canadian dollars and sell in U.S. dollars). Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, declined $135 million, from $64 million in 2006 to a loss of $71 million in 2007. The earnings decline was primarily due to: Higher asset impairments and restructuring related charges (of $121 million) Non recurrence of the 2006 reimbursement of a duty on Canadian lumber imports (of $10 million) Softer demand, lower capacity utilization, and manufacturing inefficiencies in certain operations These items were partially offset by a tax benefit (of $30 million) associated with a difference in book and tax basis of an acquired companys stock as a result of reaching held for sale status. 50 Table of Contents PART II LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details, reflecting both continuing and discontinued operations, about our: Uses of cash Cash from operations Debt position and total capitalization We use cash for the following: Finance capital requirements (e.g. productivity, growth and acquisitions) Pay dividends Repurchase our stock Typically, our operations provide much of the cash we require, and debt may also be used to fund a portion of our needs. However in 2008, cash proceeds from completed divestitures were another significant source of funds. We ended 2008 with net debt to net capital of 28.4%, below our long term target, and in line with year end 2007 levels. Our long term target is to have net debt as a percent of net capital in the 30% 40% range. Page 57 presents a table of the calculation of net debt as a percent of net capital at the end of the past two years. Uses of Cash Finance Capital Requirements For the next year or two, improving returns of the existing asset base will continue to be our primary focus. However, cash is available to fund selective growth, both internally (through capital expenditures) and externally (through acquisitions). 51 Table of Contents PART II Capital expenditures include investments we make to modernize, maintain, and expand manufacturing capacity. With our move to role based portfolio management, we are more restrictive in funding capital projects. Capital spending in 2009 is expected to be reduced to about $100 million. Growth capital, which had historically been available to all our businesses, is now predominantly earmarked for our Grow business units. Operations designated as Core business units receive capital primarily for productivity enhancements, but expansion capital is limited. We have also set a higher bar for acquisitions, and plan to pursue disciplined growth through fewer, but more strategic, opportunities. We will seek acquisitions within our growth businesses, and will also look for longer term opportunities to enter new, higher growth markets that meet strict criteria. As a result of the new acquisition criteria, no significant acquisitions were completed in 2008. In 2007, we acquired three businesses that were expected to add about $100 million to annual revenue ($20 million in Commercial Fixturing & Components, $50 million in Industrial Materials, and $30 million in Specialized Products). These businesses: established a foothold in Asian production of office chair controls manufactured coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers, and presented Leggett with expanded technologies and cross segment selling opportunities broadened our suite of products for commercial vehicle interiors We acquired five businesses in 2006 that were expected to add about $75 million to annual revenue. All these transactions occurred in the Residential Furnishings segment. These acquisitions: broadened our geographic presence and product offerings in geo components expanded our rubber carpet underlay business added to our international spring operations In addition to the initial cash outlays for acquisitions (shown in the accompanying chart), we also assumed debt of $5 million in 2006 and $24 million in 2007. We provide additional details about acquisitions in Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 100. 52 Table of Contents PART II Pay Dividends With planned improvements in returns, a decrease in capital spending and acquisitions, and the completion of the divestitures, we expect (and have recently had) more available cash to return to shareholders. Higher annual dividends are one means by which that will occur. In late 2007, we raised our quarterly dividend to $.25 per share, a 39% increase over the previous $.18 per share quarterly rate. This marks, for 2008, Leggetts 37th consecutive annual dividend increase at an average compound annual growth rate of over 14%. Our targeted dividend payout is approximately 50 60% of net earnings, but has been higher recently and will likely remain above targeted levels for the next few years. Maintaining and increasing the dividend remains a high priority. We expect to spend approximately $155 million on dividends in 2009 (less than in 2008 because of share repurchases). Cash from operations has been in recent years, and is expected to continue to be, sufficient to fund both capital expenditures and dividends. Repurchase Stock Share repurchases are the other means by which we return cash to shareholders. During the past three years, we repurchased a total of 33 million shares of our stock and 53 Table of Contents PART II reduced outstanding shares by about 15%. We repurchased a record 16 million of these shares in 2008, or approximately 9% of shares outstanding, at an average per share price of $18.70. As we have consistently stated, we intend to use the majority of divestiture proceeds to buy shares of our stock, and to date, we have used approximately half of those funds. The remaining purchases are expected to be completed at a slower pace than previously anticipated as we cautiously await indications that the economy is improving. Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have been authorized by the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares in 2009. Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Earnings and changes in working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. Cash from operations in 2008, though strong, was $178 million lower than in 2007 primarily due to a smaller year over year decrease in working capital. Extremely weak market demand in the latter part of 2008 (which resulted from the financial and credit market distress and related impact on U.S. and global economies) negatively impacted earnings. We expect this demand weakness to continue in 2009. Working capital decreased in 2008 (the changes by major category are reflected in the table below). Fourth quarter production cuts resulted in lower inventory levels (versus the prior year). Accounts receivable also declined primarily due to extremely weak sales late in the year. We continue to aggressively manage our operations in an effort to further improve our working capital position. Some of our specific actions include reducing raw material purchases and production levels where appropriate, increasing collection efforts to ensure customer accounts are paid on time, and optimizing payment terms with our vendors. In 2007, cash from operations increased $135 million versus 2006, as significant working capital improvements offset lower earnings. The working capital improvements resulted primarily from better accounts receivable collections and ongoing efforts to manage inventories. 54 Table of Contents PART II The following table presents key working capital measures at the end of the past two years. Amount (in millions) # Days Outstanding 2008 2007(4) Decrease 2008 2007 Decrease Accounts Receivable, net (1) $ 550 $ 630 $ 80 49 54 5 Inventory, net (2) $ 495 $ 591 $ 96 53 62 8 Accounts Payable (3) $ 175 $ 225 $ 50 19 24 5 (1) The accounts receivable ratio represents the days of sales outstanding calculated as: ending net accounts receivable &divide; (net sales &divide; number of days in the year). (2) The inventory ratio represents days of inventory on hand calculated as: ending net inventory &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). (3) The accounts payable ratio represents the days of payables outstanding calculated as: ending accounts payable &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). (4) 2007 amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to move the Coated Fabrics business unit to held for sale and discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2008. Working capital levels vary by segment. The Commercial Fixturing & Components segment typically has relatively higher accounts receivable balances due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Fixture & Display group. This business group also generally requires higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of its products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. At December 31, 2007, we reclassified certain assets related to the planned divestitures as held for sale and ceased depreciation and amortization on those assets. Depreciation and amortization expense in 2008 was $43 million lower than in 2007, primarily as a result of the divestitures. 55 Table of Contents PART II Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 774 $ 796 $ 906 Average interest rates (1) 4.7 % 4.9 % 5.0 % Average maturities in years (1) 6.4 6.8 7.4 Revolving credit/commercial paper 77 205 154 Total long term debt 851 1,001 1,060 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 134 139 163 Shareholders equity (2) 1,653 2,133 2,351 Total capitalization $ 2,638 $ 3,273 $ 3,574 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 523 $ 395 $ 246 Short term Total unused committed credit $ 523 $ 395 $ 246 Current maturities of long term debt $ 22 $ 89 $ 52 Cash and cash equivalents $ 165 $ 205 $ 132 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (3) 3.6 x 2.6 x 5.0 x (1) These calculations include current maturities, but exclude commercial paper to reflect the averages of outstanding debt with scheduled maturities. (2) Shareholders Equity decreased $480 million in 2008, primarily reflecting net share repurchases of $234 million, dividends of $165 million, and currency impacts of $146 million. (3) Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, plus implied interest included in operating leases. Earnings consist principally of income from continuing operations before income taxes, plus fixed charges. The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2008 and 2007, calculated in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. 56 Table of Contents PART II We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows a more meaningful comparison to periods during which cash fluctuates significantly. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2008 2007 Long term debt $ 851 $ 1,001 Current debt maturities 22 89 Cash and cash equivalents (165 ) (205 ) Net debt $ 708 $ 885 Total capitalization $ 2,638 $ 3,273 Current debt maturities 22 89 Cash and cash equivalents (165 ) (205 ) Net capitalization $ 2,495 $ 3,157 Long term debt to total capitalization 32.2 % 30.6 % Net debt to net capitalization 28.4 % 28.0 % Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) decreased $217 million in 2008. During the year, we reduced our commercial paper borrowings by $128 million and paid off $89 million of other long term debt that came due. We can raise cash by issuing up to $600 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $600 million revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of 16 lenders that terminates in 2012. At December 31, 2008, $77 million of commercial paper was outstanding under this program and is classified as long term debt. Cash proceeds from the divestitures (discussed on page 35) were used to reduce our outstanding commercial paper balance during 2008. Our commercial paper program has continued to operate efficiently during the recent disruption of global credit markets. However, the change in the credit markets and our short term ratings downgrade (discussed below) has resulted in an increase of less than 100 basis points in the weighted average effective borrowing rate for the commercial paper issued. This would equate to an additional annual interest cost of less than $1 million based on the level of commercial paper that was issued at the end of 2008. In the event that the disruption in the credit markets was to become so severe that we were unable to issue commercial paper, we have the contractual right to draw funds directly on our revolving credit agreement. In such event, the cost of borrowing under the credit agreement could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowing. The revolving credit agreement provides for the ability to replace outstanding letters of credit. To the extent that we utilize these commitments for letters of credit, it would reduce our commercial paper/loan capacity by a corresponding amount. Over the last two years the list of specific banks participating in our revolving credit agreement has modestly changed as some banks have assigned their lending commitments under the agreement to other participating banks or new participants, all of which have assumed the respective lending obligations. These assignments and assumptions have had no material impact on the availability of credit under the agreement or on the terms or covenants of the agreement. Based on the information currently available to us, we believe that the participating banks continue to have the ability to meet their obligations under the agreement. 57 Table of Contents PART II With anticipated operating cash flows and the commercial paper program in place, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and fund future growth. Most of our debt has fixed repayment dates. At the end of 2008, this debt consisted primarily of term notes. We have maintained a debt rating in the A category (from Moodys and Standard and Poors) on our term notes and public debt for over a decade. On November 12, 2008, Moodys downgraded our long term debt rating from A2 to A3 and our commercial paper rating from P1 to P2 citing accelerating contraction in residential and automotive related consumer spending. On November 25, 2008, S&P downgraded our long term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings from A to A and our short term and commercial paper ratings from A 1 to A 2 citing weak market conditions and financial policies that include a high dividend payout and share repurchases. In addition, both Moodys and S&P assigned a negative outlook to each of their respective ratings. The ratings downgrades have not had an impact on our ability to issue commercial paper, but they have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, our cost of short term borrowing. Also, if we choose to borrow under our $600 million revolving credit agreement, which expires in 2012, our interest cost under this agreement would be increased approximately five basis points as a result of the new ratings. We do not expect the ratings downgrades to have a material impact on our liquidity or our ability to access the long term credit market. These credit ratings reflect the views of the rating agency only. An explanation of the significance of these ratings may be obtained from the rating agency. These ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Any rating can be revised upward or downward or withdrawn at any time by a rating agency if it decides that the circumstances warrant the change. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, each rating should be evaluated separately. 58 Table of Contents PART II CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual obligations and commitments: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total LessThan 1Year 1 3Years 3 5Years MoreThan 5Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt (1) $ 869 $ 21 $ 10 $ 279 $ 559 Capitalized leases 5 1 4 Operating leases 130 37 50 27 16 Purchase obligations (2) 315 315 Interest payments (3) 251 49 72 65 65 Deferred income taxes 17 17 Other obligations (4) 116 3 13 7 93 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,703 $ 426 $ 149 $ 378 $ 750 (1) The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. Long term debt includes $77 million of outstanding commercial paper. We have classified commercial paper as long term debt (due in 3 5 years) since the commercial paper program is supported by a $600 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. (2) Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. (3) Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 at rates in effect at the end of the year. These totals include interest on the $77 million of outstanding commercial paper discussed above. (4) Other obligations include uncertain tax positions of $38 million in the More Than 5 Years column because these obligations are long term in nature and actual payment dates can not be specifically determined. Other obligations also include our current estimate of minimum contributions to defined benefit pension plans. 59 Table of Contents PART II CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur. Critical accounting estimates are those that are: a) subject to uncertainty and change, and b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed here are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements: Asset and goodwill impairment Inventory Workers compensation, general liability, and employee benefit programs Credit losses Pension accounting Income taxes Contingencies We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 82. Asset and Goodwill Impairment Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, and as triggering events occur. Other long lived assets are tested for recoverability at year end and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The assessments are performed to ensure that future cash flows (from use of the assets) exceed the assets book value. In doing so, we make judgments and estimates about: a) the future cash flows expected from use (and eventual disposition) of the assets, and b) the assets fair market values. If actual future cash flows are lower than our estimates, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. Our ten reporting units for goodwill purposes (related to continuing operations) are one level below our operating segments, and are the same as the business groups disclosed in Item 1. Business. We assess our reporting units for possible goodwill impairment on an annual basis and whenever events warrant. In doing so, we estimate the fair market values of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow model and comparable market values for similar entities using price to earnings ratios. Key assumptions and estimates used in the cash flow model include discount rate, internal sales growth, margins, capital expenditure requirements, and working capital requirements. Recent performance of the reporting unit is an important factor, but not the only factor, in our assessment. 60 Table of Contents PART II The annual goodwill impairment review performed in June 2008 indicated no goodwill impairments. As a result of the deterioration in the economic and financial climate in the fourth quarter of 2008, interim goodwill and other long lived asset impairment analyses were performed in the fourth quarter. The goodwill analysis confirmed that estimated fair values exceeded carrying values for all reporting units. Future cash flow assumptions were reduced to reflect lower sales and production levels for 2009 and 2010, returning to historical levels thereafter. Other long lived asset impairment charges of $12 million were recorded in the fourth quarter 2008. If actual results differ from estimates used in these calculations, the Company could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. Throughout 2008, we recorded $26 million of goodwill and $6 million of other long lived asset impairments related to businesses held for sale as updated estimates of fair value less costs to sell became more certain. In June 2007, we performed the annual goodwill impairment review and determined that no impairments were indicated for any reporting units. In the fourth quarter 2007, we performed an interim goodwill impairment review as a result of the November Strategic Plan which was considered a triggering event as defined in FAS 142. The fair value of each reporting unit was adjusted to reflect the significant decrease in the Companys overall market value since June. In addition, individual reporting units impacted by the 2007 Strategic Plan were revised to reflect updated margin and growth assumptions. Since the carrying amounts of our Fixture & Display and Aluminum Products reporting units were determined to exceed their fair values, we performed the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying value of the goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. That is, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units identified above were determined using the discounted cash flow method and comparable market values for similar entities using price to earnings ratios. Application of the discounted cash flow method requires significant projections and assumptions. The significant assumptions used in this approach include estimates of our future revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, operating plans, industry data and other relevant factors. As a result of this process, we recorded goodwill impairment charges in the fourth quarter of 2007 related to the Fixture & Display and Aluminum Products reporting units of $143 and $83 million, respectively. In addition, we recorded goodwill and asset impairments of $51 million in the fourth quarter 2007 relating to other held for sale locations. Discounted cash flow projections for these two reporting units were based on 10 year financial forecasts. These forecasts were based on annual financial forecasts developed internally by management for use in managing the business. The significant assumptions of these forecasts included a compound annual growth rate during the 10 years of 5% and 61 Table of Contents PART II 4% related to Fixture & Display and Aluminum Products, respectively. Terminal values for each reporting unit were calculated using a long term growth rate of 3%. Future cash flows were discounted to present value using a discount rate of 12% for Fixture & Display and 13% for Aluminum Products. Actual results may differ materially from these assumptions. If actual results differ from estimates used in these calculations, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges in the Fixture & Display reporting unit. Inventory In determining the value of inventories, we make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow moving (i.e. not selling very quickly). If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to have no value and are written down completely. If we have more than a one years supply of a product, we value that inventory at net realizable value (what we think we will recover); historically, this write down has been approximately 35% on average. At December 31, 2008, we had reduced inventory values of continuing operations by $38 million (approximately 6% of the total FIFO inventory) to account for obsolete and slow moving items. At December 31, 2007, an adjustment of $43 million had been recognized, resulting in a decrease in the valuation allowance during 2008 of $5 million. A summary of the inventory valuation allowance by segment is as follows (in millions): Segment 2008 2007 Residential Furnishings $ 9 $ 13 (1) Commercial Fixturing & Components 14 14 Industrial Materials 4 3 Specialized Products 11 13 Total $ 38 $ 43 (1) The 2007 valuation allowance in Residential Furnishings includes $3 million for the Coated Fabrics business that we intend to divest as part of the 2007 Strategic Plan, but that did not meet the requirements for held for sale and discontinued operations treatment until 2008. These adjustments relate to a broad range of products. The majority of the Residential Furnishings valuation allowance relates to innerspring products, steel mechanisms and hardware for furniture, and structural fabrics for mattresses and furniture. The Commercial Fixturing & Components valuation allowance is primarily for store fixtures and displays, and to a lesser extent, office components and chair controls. The Industrial Materials valuation allowance is mostly for wire retail fixtures. The Specialized Products valuation allowance is for automotive lumbar and seat suspension systems, digital printing machinery, and component parts used in the assembly of van interiors. Workers Compensation, General Liability, and Employee Benefit Programs We are substantially self insured for certain costs related to workers compensation, automobile, product and general liability, property, and medical insurance. When estimating the potential amounts we might have to pay (since we are self insured), we consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. 62 Table of Contents PART II Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $26 million annually for costs associated with these insurance programs. Average year to year variation over the past five years has been approximately $3 million. At December 31, 2008, we had accrued $71 million to cover future self insurance liabilities. Credit Losses Our customers are diverse. Many are small to medium sized companies, and some are highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning. We regularly evaluate the ability of our customers to pay what they owe us. When we become aware of a specific customers potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible. We consider factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical experience. The total amount of credit losses over the last three years is $35 million. At December 31, 2008, our reserves for doubtful accounts not held for sale totaled $38 million (about 6% of our accounts and notes receivable of $634 million). Pension Accounting For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations. The two most critical assumptions affecting these estimates are the discount rate and the expected return on assets. Other assumptions include rates of compensation increases, withdrawal and mortality rates, and retirement ages. These estimates impact the pension expense or income we recognize and our reported benefit obligations. We have recognized the impact of individual plans funded amounts on the balance sheet, and in 2008, changed to a December 31 measurement date (from September 30 in previous years). To reflect market interest rates, in 2008 the discount rate for our major pension plans was unchanged at 6.0%. This follows an increase in 2007 from 5.75% to 6.0%. For 2008, we assumed long term returns of 8.0% on the assets of these plans, which was identical to our 2007 and 2006 assumptions. Sensitivity to changes in the critical assumptions for our major plans is as follows: Discount rate: a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $.5 million and decrease the plans funded status by approximately $5 million. Expected return on assets: a 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.4 million, but have no effect on the plans funded status. We expect that the combined contribution in 2009 to our defined benefit plans will total approximately $3 million. On December 31, 2006, our defined benefit Retirement Plan covering non union employees was frozen, thereby eliminating the future accrual of benefits to participants and closing the plan to future enrollment. This plan change reduced the projected benefit obligation by $12 million, and reduced 2007 pension expense by $4 million. Participants were moved to a defined contribution plan with a company contribution based upon the age of the participant. 63 Table of Contents PART II Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. At December 31, 2008, six open years were undergoing (or subject to) audit by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Canada Revenue Agency. Amended federal returns were filed with the IRS in 2008 for the 2004 tax year with a refund of $3 million expected. These filings are subject to review by the IRS, with the largest issue related to a research and development credit. In 2006, the IRS examination for the years 2002 and 2003 was concluded. A final report was issued, and the net refund of approximately $11 million, plus interest, was received in 2007. The largest issue pertained to a refund claim we made for a worthless stock deduction. The resolution of this item was reflected in 2006 as a reduction in the Companys overall tax rate. Canada Revenue Agency examinations are underway for 2003 through 2006, which are at various stages of completion, but to date the Company is not aware of any material adjustments. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had $24 million and $25 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Valuation reserves are established against future potential tax benefits to reflect the amounts that we believe have no more than a 50% probability of being realized. In addition, assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of such earnings. Contingencies Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. The Company has been named as one of numerous defendants in several cases consolidated as Gray v. Derderian, Case No. 1:04 CV 312 L, U.S.D.C. R.I. This litigation resulted from a nightclub fire in West Warwick, Rhode Island involving multiple deaths and injuries. Along with other foam manufacturing defendants, the Company is alleged to have manufactured and sold bulk polyurethane foam to a foam fabricator in Rhode Island, who in turn, is alleged to have fabricated and sold foam sheets to the nightclub. The foam was among other materials alleged to have caught fire when pyrotechnics were ignited inside the nightclub. The Company believes it did not manufacture the foam subject to the lawsuit and that it has valid defenses to the claims. Nevertheless, with the Companys consent, the 64 Table of Contents PART II Companys primary insurance carrier reached a tentative settlement with counsel for all plaintiffs on April 29, 2008. If the settlement is approved by the court, the Company will pay a $2 million self insured retention and the remainder of the $18.2 million settlement is the responsibility of the insurance carrier. The settlement is subject to contingencies, including approval by the court. Management does not believe the settlement or the outcome will have a material effect on the Companys financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. On February 5, 2009, a shareholder derivative complaint was filed by the New England Carpenters Pension Fund, which represented that it owns 3,000 shares of Leggett stock, in the Circuit Court of Jasper County, Missouri. The complaint is substantially similar to a lawsuit filed by the New England Carpenters Pension Fund in federal court on September 4, 2008, which the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed on September 26, 2008 without prejudice to its right to re file. However, this new lawsuit has fewer claims and asserts no federal causes of action. The action is purportedly brought on behalf of the Company, naming it as a nominal defendant and naming as defendants certain current and former officers and directors of the Company. The plaintiff alleges, among other things, that the individual defendants participated in the backdating of stock options, breached fiduciary duties, caused or allowed the Company to issue false and misleading financial statements and proxy statements, and sold Company stock while in possession of material non public information. The plaintiff seeks, among other things, unspecified monetary damages against the individual defendants, certain equitable and other relief relating to the profits from the alleged improper conduct, the adoption of certain Company corporate governance proposals, the imposition of a constructive trust over the defendants stock options and proceeds, punitive damages, the rescission of certain unexercised options, and the reimbursement of litigation costs. The plaintiff is not seeking any monetary relief from the Company. Policies of directors and officers liability insurance are in force, subject to customary limits and exclusions. The complaint is based on a statistical analysis of stock option grants and Leggett stock prices that we believe is flawed. We believe this lawsuit does not take into consideration important aspects of Leggetts stock option plans. For example, the plaintiff has noted only one set of stock option grants, made on December 30, 2005, within what we believe to be the applicable 5 year statute of limitations. These option grants were made in accordance with the Companys Deferred Compensation Program, which (i) provided that options would be dated on the last business day of December, and (ii) was filed with the SEC on December 2, 2005 setting out the pricing mechanism well before the grant date. We provided plaintiffs counsel with this publicly available documentation before they dismissed the prior federal court lawsuit. The Company expects that the outcome of this litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. 65 Table of Contents PART II NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 158 (SFAS 158), Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans provision which requires it to measure the funded status of its plans as of year end beginning with its December 31, 2008 balance sheet. The Company previously used September 30 as the measurement date for its most significant plans. The Company has chosen to perform a measurement that covers the 15 month period of October 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008. Upon implementation, a proportionate allocation was made to cover the net benefit income for the transition period and the Company recorded a $.5 million (net of tax) increase to beginning retained earnings on January 1, 2008. The Company previously adopted the provisions of this statement which were effective December 31, 2006 to recognize the funded status of its defined benefit plans in the balance sheet and to recognize as a component of other comprehensive income changes in funded status from year to year that are not otherwise reflected in income. As discussed in Note T to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 126, the provisions of SFAS No. 157 (SFAS 157), Fair Value Measurements were adopted on January 1, 2008 for financial assets and liabilities of the Company. SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities and requires additional disclosure. SFAS 157 also has an effective date of January 1, 2009 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. The Company has evaluated the effect of this standard and does not believe that it will have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 (SFAS 159), The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other instruments at fair value, with the objective of improving financial reporting by providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. As the Company did not elect to fair value any of its financial instruments under the provisions of SFAS 159, the adoption of this statement, effective January 1, 2008, did not have an impact on the financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R) (SFAS 141R), Business Combinations, which replaces SFAS 141. The new standard requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction and establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed. SFAS 141R is effective on a prospective basis for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009, with the exception of the accounting for valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies. SFAS 141R amends SFAS 109 such that adjustments made to valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies associated with acquisitions that closed prior to the effective date of SFAS 141R would also apply the provisions of SFAS 141R. Because the adoption of SFAS 141R will be applied prospectively, it is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. 66 Table of Contents PART II In December 2007, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 160 (SFAS 160), Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, which seeks to improve the relevance, comparability, and transparency of financial information provided to investors by requiring all entities to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries in the same way as equity in their consolidated financial statements. SFAS 160 is also effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009, and its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161 (SFAS 161), Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. The new standard requires enhanced disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities and their effects on an entitys financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. The statement requires disclosure of objectives and strategies for derivative instruments, disclosure of the fair values of derivative instruments and their gains and losses in a tabular format, disclosure of contingent derivative features that are credit risk related, and requires cross referencing within footnotes if the required disclosures are presented in more than one footnote. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. Its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In April 2008, FASB Staff Position (FSP) SFAS No. 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets was issued. This FSP amends the factors that must be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life over which to amortize the cost of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142 (SFAS 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The FSP requires an entity to consider its own assumptions about renewal or extension of the term of the arrangement, consistent with its expected use of the asset, and is an attempt to improve consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations. The FSP is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009, and the guidance for determining the useful life of a recognized intangible asset must be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after the effective date. The Company does not expect the adoption of FSP SFAS No. 142 3 to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162 (SFAS 162), The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This statement identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements. It was effective 60 days following the Securities and Exchange Commissions approval on September 16, 2008, of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This statement will not result in a change in the Companys current practice. In October 2008, FSP SFAS No. 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active was issued. This FSP clarifies the application of FASB Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. This FSP was effective upon issuance. Its adoption did not have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 67 Table of Contents PART II In December 2008, FSP SFAS No. 132(R) 1, Employers Disclosure about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets was issued. This FSP requires additional disclosure surrounding plan assets of defined benefit pension plans in the Companys December 31, 2009 financial statements. Additional disclosures related to benefit plan assets include information about investment policies and strategies, the fair value of each major category of plan assets, and information that enables users of financial statements to assess the inputs and valuation techniques used to develop fair value measurements of plan assets. Its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) Interest Rates The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States Dollars. The fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $107.1 at December 31, 2008, and less than its carrying value by $45.1 at December 31, 2007. The decrease in the fair market value of the Companys debt is primarily due to the increase in credit spreads over risk free rates as compared to the prior year end. The fair value of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2008 was based upon a Bloomberg secondary market rate. The fair value of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2007 was based upon the U.S. Treasury bond rate for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Scheduled Maturity Date Long term debt as of December 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter 2008 2007 Principal fixed rate debt $ 15.0 $ $ $ $ 200.0 $ 530.0 $ 745.0 $ 816.5 Average interest rate 7.26 % % % % 4.70 % 4.73 % 4.77 % 4.91 % Principal variable rate debt .5 8.5 .5 .5 21.5 31.5 32.0 Average interest rate 3.50 % 1.43 % 3.50 % 3.50 % % 1.88 % 1.83 % 3.58 % Miscellaneous debt* 97.1 240.8 Total debt 873.6 1,089.3 Less: current maturities (22.4 ) (88.7 ) Total long term debt $ 851.2 $ 1,000.6 * Includes $77 and $205 of commercial paper in 2008 and 2007, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks, The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It 68 Table of Contents PART II is the Companys policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in Note R on page 123 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. Investment in Foreign Subsidiaries The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures, except for the net investment hedge discussed in Note R on page 123 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2008 2007 European Currencies $ 287.4 $ 328.5 Canadian Dollar 205.1 301.4 Chinese Renminbi 160.0 125.8 Mexican Peso 51.6 87.7 Other 44.5 70.7 Total $ 748.6 $ 914.1 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. 2008 HIGHLIGHTS In 2008, there were two significant and opposing forces in play. On the positive side, we successfully implemented Leggetts most significant strategic changes in quite some time. On the negative side, the U.S. economy and stock market suffered from their worst performance in decades. In late 2007 we unveiled plans to significantly change the companys strategic course. We have not yet reached our long term performance targets (for margins and returns) but we made substantial strategic strides in 2008. We adopted TSR as our primary strategic objective and introduced TSR based incentives for senior executives. We set a goal to consistently achieve TSR within the top 1/3 of the S&P 500, which we believe will require average annual TSR of 12 15%. We also adopted role based portfolio management and implemented a formal, rigorous strategic planning process to continually assess each business units role in the portfolio. During the year, we divested five businesses (including the Aluminum Products segment) for total after tax proceeds in excess of $400 million, and contracted our Store Fixtures business unit to a smaller, metal focused operation that should generate higher profit. We also increased our quarterly dividend by 39% and repurchased 16 million shares of our stock. Late in the third quarter of 2008, our markets weakened appreciably as consumers reined in their spending in light of the financial market distress and general U.S. and global economic conditions. Weak market demand, partially offset by market share gains in certain businesses, led to lower sales and earnings in 2008. We met our goal to achieve TSR within the top 1/3 of the S&P 500; in fact, our 2008 TSR ranked within the top 10%. However, TSRs in general (for all companies) were significantly depressed, and only 5% of the S&P 500 posted a positive TSR in 2008. Our TSR of negative 7% was well below the 12 15% we anticipate over the long term. Though strong in 2008, cash from operations was lower than the record set in 2007 primarily due to a smaller year over year decrease in working capital. Cash from operations has been and is expected to continue to be sufficient to fund both capital expenditures and dividends. We are well situated to weather this challenging economic environment. We ended the year with net debt (as a percentage of net capital) below our long term, targeted range; no significant long term debt matures until 2012; and we have more than $500 million available under our existing commercial paper program and revolver facility. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. 33 Table of Contents PART II INTRODUCTION What We Do Leggett & Platt is a diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs, and produces a wide range of engineered components and products found in most homes, offices, and automobiles, and many retail stores. We make components that are often hidden within, but integral to, our customers products. We are North Americas leading independent manufacturer of: components for residential furniture and bedding, carpet underlay, components for office furniture, drawn steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and bedding industry machinery. Our Segments Our continuing operations are composed of 20 business units in four segments, with approximately 20,000 employee partners, and more than 160 production facilities located in 18 countries around the world. Our segments are described below. Residential Furnishings This segment supplies a variety of components mainly used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. We also sell carpet cushion, adjustable beds, bed frames, ornamental beds, and geo components. Commercial Fixturing & Components Operations in this segment manufacture and sell store fixtures and point of purchase displays used in retail stores. We also produce chair controls, bases, and other components for office furniture manufacturers. 34 Table of Contents PART II Industrial Materials These operations primarily supply steel rod, drawn steel wire, steel billets, and welded steel tubing to other Leggett operations and to external customers. Our wire and tubing is used to make bedding, furniture, automotive seats, wire retail fixtures, mechanical springs, and many other end products. Specialized Products From this segment we supply lumbar systems and wire components used by automotive seating manufacturers. We manufacture and install the racks, shelving and cabinets used to outfit fleets of service vans. We also produce machinery, both for ourselves and for others, including bedding manufacturers. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures During the past two years, we have divested six businesses. In 2008, we sold our Aluminum Products segment and four smaller business units (Wood Products, Fibers, Plastics, and the dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products). We received after tax cash proceeds of $408 million for these five businesses; we also received subordinated notes and preferred stock. In early 2007, we sold our Prime Foam operations. Two additional business units (Coated Fabrics and Storage Products) are also targeted for divestiture. All of these businesses, including the two that remain, are disclosed in our financial statements as discontinued operations. For the remaining divestitures, we expect to recover the carrying value of the net assets held for sale. Net assets classified as held for sale totaled $54 million at December 31, 2008 (this includes $22 million not associated with the remaining divestitures). Recent market conditions have delayed the expected timing of the sale of these remaining businesses; completing these transactions remains a high priority for 2009. Strategic Direction During 2007, we completed an extensive review of our business portfolio in an effort to enhance shareholder return. For each business unit, we considered factors such as competitive advantages, market position, financial performance, and potential growth opportunities. We have made significant changes to our financial targets, portfolio mix, and planning processes as a result of the review. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is now the key success measure that we use to monitor performance. TSR is driven by the change in our share price and the dividends we pay [TSR (Change in Stock Price + Dividends) / Beginning Stock Price]. There are four key sources of TSR: revenue growth, margin expansion, dividends, and share repurchases. Historically, our primary objective was profitable growth. Going forward, we intend to generate higher TSR through a balanced approach that employs all four sources of TSR. We have modified our incentive plans to emphasize the importance of, and reward, TSR. Beginning in 2008, we introduced TSR based incentives for senior executives and modified business unit bonuses to give more importance to achieving higher returns on the assets under their direct control. 35 Table of Contents PART II We have adopted role based portfolio management and will concentrate future investments in businesses with strong competitive advantages and financial health. Certain of our businesses (categorized as Grow) are positioned to generate value through further growth, while others (categorized as Core) are positioned to drive value by improving EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and optimizing operating cash flow while employing minimal amounts of capital. We allocate capital to each business unit based upon its role in the portfolio. We plan to invest in Grow businesses that hold strong competitive positions and consistently achieve compelling returns on those investments. We plan to maintain or improve our competitive position in Core businesses that typically hold stable positions in solid markets, and focus on improving returns but limit further investment in these operations. In total, we anticipate lower capital expenditures and fewer acquisitions in the near term. We have implemented a more rigorous strategic planning process to continually assess our business units and help guide future decisions regarding the role of each business unit, capital allocation priorities, and new areas in which to grow. We review the portfolio classification of each unit at least on an annual basis to determine its appropriate role. This review includes several different criteria such as competitive position, market conditions, business unit size, and fit within our overall objectives, as well as financial indicators such as EBITDA and operating cash flows relative to the amount of capital employed. To remain in the portfolio, business units are expected to consistently generate after tax returns in excess of our cost of capital. Business units may employ a variety of means to achieve higher returns, including trimming expenses, introducing new products, improving productivity, adopting more disciplined pricing, reducing working capital, and consolidating assets. Business units that fail to attain minimum return goals will be moved to the Fix or Divest categories. As a result of the 2007 strategic review, we narrowed our focus and eliminated approximately 15% of our portfolio through the divestiture of the Aluminum Products segment and four additional business units (two other divestitures remain). We also placed our Store Fixtures business unit into the Fix category and gave it a one year period in which to improve returns to at least cost of capital levels. In the third quarter of 2008, we concluded that the Store Fixtures unit, in its previous form, was not capable of meeting our return requirements. As a result, we narrowed the units scope to focus primarily on the metals part of the fixtures industry, in alignment with Leggetts core competency of producing steel and steel related products. We consolidated four wood store fixtures operations into two facilities and will continue to produce a reduced amount of wood fixtures in order to meet the blended requirements (i.e. metal and wood) of certain of our customers. We also effected changes to senior management, further reduced the units overhead, and purged additional customer accounts with unacceptable margins. These changes are expected to trim annual trade sales for the Store Fixtures business unit from a run rate in late 2008 of approximately $325 million to approximately $250 $275 million in 2009, and we expect annual returns to at least match our cost of capital. The unit is now considered a Core business within our portfolio; as such, its primary focus is to optimize operating cash flow and improve profit while minimizing its use of capital. 36 Table of Contents PART II Activities related to the Fix and Divest businesses resulted in charges that impacted our operating results in 2007 and 2008. Those charges are discussed on page 40 under the section titled Asset Impairments and Restructuring related Charges. The strategic changes have increased available cash, and we are returning much of this cash to shareholders. In November 2007, the Board of Directors authorized a 39% dividend increase, moving the quarterly rate to $.25 per share (from the previous $.18). For the year 2008, we also repurchased nearly 16 million shares of our stock, fully exhausting our annual repurchase authorization (of 10 million shares), and partially utilizing the supplementary authorization to purchase additional shares with proceeds from the divestitures. We expect to continue repurchasing our shares, but the timing of those repurchases will depend on several factors, including general economic and market conditions, the price of Leggett stock, and our working capital needs. Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with no single one representing even 5% of our sales. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture and bedding, a variety of other manufacturers, and many major retailers. Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are market demand, recent economic events, raw material cost trends, and competition. Market Demand Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Recent Economic Events In light of recent distress in the financial and credit markets (and the related impact on U.S. and global economies) we have been impacted, and may continue to be impacted, in several different areas as discussed below. Lower Market Wide Demand. Throughout 2007 and 2008, demand weakness in the U.S. home related, retail, and other markets led to lower unit order activity, sales and earnings in our businesses. Several factors, including a weak U.S. economy, higher energy costs, a depressed housing market, and low consumer confidence contributed to conservative spending habits by U.S. consumers. Late in the third quarter of 2008, our global markets weakened appreciably as consumers further reined in spending during this period of credit concerns and stock market volatility. Short lead times in most of our markets allow for very limited long term visibility into demand trends; however, we 37 Table of Contents PART II currently expect market demand to be soft in 2009. Despite the global economic decline, we have gained market share in our U.S. bedding components businesses primarily due to (i) bedding manufacturers shifting innerspring purchases from international to domestic sources as a result of antidumping duties imposed on imported innersprings from China, South Africa, and Vietnam; (ii) the deverticalization of a strong regional bedding manufacturer (they now buy from us components they had previously produced for themselves); and (iii) increased demand for innerspring mattresses, rather than premium priced, non innerspring products. These market share gains offset some of the demand weakness. Customers and Suppliers. Due to the recent tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit, our customers may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary cash for their purchases. Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by the current credit and financial market conditions causing delays in product deliveries to us. These delays could negatively impact our customers and suppliers ability to conduct business and could adversely affect our unit order activity and sales, and therefore negatively impact our cash flows and liquidity. Managements Response to Recent Economic Events. Activities completed over the past few years (including the divestiture of businesses under our strategic plan, closure of underperforming and underutilized facilities, elimination of sales with unacceptable margins, and other cost reduction initiatives) improved our cost position in advance of the late 2008 economic contraction. In response to the recent economic events, we reduced production and were running well below our normal utilization levels during the fourth quarter 2008 in an effort to bring inventories in line with current demand. We have further reduced headcount, overhead costs, and capital spending, and are completing the closure of certain facilities. Given our balance sheet, operating cash flow and access to credit, we expect to be able to endure an extended downturn in market demand with no material impact to our financial position or liquidity. Raw Material Costs In many of our businesses, we enjoy a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that many of our competitors generally do not have. Still, our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. Purchasing arrangements vary across the Company. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly our raw material costs generally move with the market. In certain of our businesses, we have longer term purchase contracts with pricing terms that provide stability under reasonable market conditions. However, when commodities experience extreme inflation, vendors do not always honor those contracts. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Conversely, when costs decrease significantly, we generally pass a portion of those lower costs through to our customers. The timing of our price increases or decreases is a critical factor; we typically experience a lag in recovering higher costs, so we also expect to realize a lag as costs decline. 38 Table of Contents PART II Steel is our principal raw material and at various times in past years we have experienced extreme cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers via selling price adjustments. In late 2007 we began seeing higher steel costs, and significant increases occurred in 2008. We implemented price increases to recover these higher costs. Market prices began to abate late in the year, but for certain types of steel, continued to be well above prior year levels. With the precipitous drop in market demand beginning late in the third quarter, and the need to reduce inventories (that were purchased before steel costs declined), at year end we had not yet made substantial purchases of the lower cost steel. Our other raw materials include woven and non woven fabrics, foam scrap, fibers, and chemicals. We have experienced changes in the cost of these materials in recent years, and typically pass them through to our customers. When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We experienced this de contenting effect in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments in recent years, as our customers changed the quantity and mix of components in their finished goods to address steel and chemical inflation. Our profit margins were negatively impacted by this de contenting. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of innersprings and boxsprings) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and in certain instances, provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Some of these new products were introduced during 2007, with production of those products ramping up in 2008. Competition Many of our markets are highly competitive with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. We believe we gain competitive advantage in our global markets through low cost operations, significant internal production of key raw materials, superior manufacturing expertise and product innovation, higher quality products, extensive customer service capabilities, and greater financial strength. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering product quality, innovation, and customer service. We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. We currently operate 11 facilities in China. In recent years we experienced increased competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. We reacted to this competition by selectively adjusting prices, and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. The increased price competition for bedding components was partially due to lower wire costs in China. Asian manufacturers benefit from cost advantages for commodities such as 39 Table of Contents PART II steel and chemicals. Foreign manufacturers also benefit from lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. In late 2007, we filed an antidumping suit related to innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam. We saw a distinct decline in unfair imports during 2008 after the antidumping investigations began, and as a result, we regained market share. The investigations were brought to a favorable conclusion in early 2009. We should see improved performance in our Bedding group as imported innersprings from these countries will now have to be sold at fair prices. The current antidumping duty rates on innersprings from these countries are significant, ranging from 116% to 234%, and will remain in effect for at least 5 years. Asset Impairments and Restructuring related Charges Net impairment and restructuring related charges (for both continuing and discontinued operations) totaled $84 million in 2008 and $305 million in 2007. The majority of these charges occurred as a result of the strategic changes announced in late 2007. Those details are discussed in the paragraphs below. Net impairment and restructuring related charges not associated with the 2007 Strategic Plan totaled $31 million in 2008 and $17 million in 2007. In the fourth quarter 2007, we recognized $287 million (primarily non cash) of impairment and restructuring related charges associated with the 2007 Strategic Plan. These charges (which included both continuing and discontinued operations) include goodwill impairments for the Fixture & Display reporting unit of $143 million and the Aluminum reporting unit of $83 million. Goodwill and asset impairment charges related to other held for sale businesses totaled $51 million. Restructuring related charges totaled $10 million. In 2008, we incurred additional costs totaling $53 million related to the 2007 Strategic Plan. This total includes $6 million of restructuring related costs, $26 million of goodwill impairment charges, $7 million of asset impairment charges, and $14 million of losses from sale of assets. To date, we have incurred total costs associated with the 2007 Strategic Plan of $340 million ($153 million in continuing operations and $187 million in discontinued operations) and believe the activity to be substantially complete. For further information about asset impairments and restructuring, see Notes C and D to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 91 and 95. As discussed on pages 4 and 36, in late 2007 the Store Fixtures business unit was placed in the Fix category and given a one year period in which to improve returns to at least cost of capital levels. In the fall of 2008, we concluded that the business unit should be contracted to a smaller, metal focused business. This strategy change did not result in any goodwill impairment charges. The Store Fixtures business unit is included in our Fixture & Display reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes. We conduct an annual review for potential goodwill impairment (in June) and long lived asset impairment (at year end) for all of our reporting units. We also review for potential impairment if an event or change in circumstance occurs that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its 40 Table of Contents PART II carrying amount or impact the recoverability of the assets. At December 31, 2008, the Fixture & Display reporting unit had $106 million of goodwill and $64 million of other long lived assets ($62 million of the long lived assets were associated with the Store Fixtures business unit). For further information regarding the methodology we use for impairment testing, the assumptions we use for this testing and the potential for future impairment, refer to Critical Accounting Policies on page 60, and also Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 91. 41 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2008 vs. 2007 During 2008, sales from continuing operations decreased 4%. We reported full year net earnings from continuing operations of $123 million, which included $21 million of restructuring related charges, impairments, and other items. Our 2008 earnings reflected extremely soft market demand which led to lower unit volume in many of our businesses. In the majority of our markets, demand was soft throughout the year, but weakened appreciably late in the third quarter as consumers further reduced their spending in response to the financial market distress and general U.S. and global economic conditions. Market share gains in certain businesses offset some of the impact from weak demand. During the year, we also experienced significant inflation in steel costs, and we successfully implemented price increases to recover the majority of these higher costs. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2008, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. Reported amounts for 2007 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the reclassification of our Coated Fabrics business unit from continuing to discontinued operations. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 4,250 Acquisition sales growth 35 0.8 % Small divestitures (41 ) (0.9 )% Internal sales decline: Approximate inflation 285 6.7 % Approximate unit volume decline (453 ) (10.7 )% Internal sales decline (168 ) (4.0 )% Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 4,076 (4.1 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 59 Goodwill impairment in Fixture & Display 120 Restructuring related charges (4 ) Asset impairment (4 ) Interest expense (net) 6 Tax items 12 Other factors including lower unit volume and production (66 ) Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 123 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2007 $ 0.33 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2008 $ 0.73 42 Table of Contents PART II Sales from continuing operations decreased 4% versus 2007, primarily reflecting extremely weak market demand and our decision to exit specific sales volume with unacceptable profit margins (primarily in our Store Fixtures business). These declines were partially offset by inflation related price increases and market share gains. Our U.S. bedding components business gained market share in 2008 as a result of: i) bedding manufacturers shifting innerspring purchases from international to domestic sources; ii) the deverticalization of a strong regional bedding manufacturer; and, iii) increased demand for innerspring mattresses, rather than premium priced, non innerspring products. We experienced significant inflation in steel costs during 2008, and in response, we implemented price increases to recover the higher costs. The magnitude of our selling price increases varied by product line depending on steel content, but in our major Residential and Industrial businesses, prices increased substantially. In recent months, steel costs have abated. As costs were increasing, we experienced a lag in recovering them; likewise, as costs decline we also expect to realize a lag in any price reductions we give back to our customers. Full year earnings from continuing operations were higher than in 2007, primarily due to: Non recurrence of 2007 goodwill impairment charges related to our Fixture & Display group ($120 million) Non recurrence of 2007 tax items ($12 million) adjustments to valuation allowances related to potential foreign tax benefits Lower interest expense Several factors negatively impacted earnings. The most significant were: Unit volume declines (down roughly 10% for the year) Higher restructuring related charges and asset impairments ($19 million) Reduced production levels with the significant pull back in demand late in the year, we cut production (even below depressed demand levels) and reduced inventories LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. Significant steel cost increases during the year, along with moderately higher levels of these steel related inventories, resulted in LIFO expense from continuing operations of $62 million in 2008 (versus a $1 million benefit in 2007). Segment level earnings in 2008 generally benefited under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs. For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 82. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense decreased $9 million versus 2007, primarily the result of debt maturities paid in 2007 and 2008, as well as lower commercial paper borrowings. 43 Table of Contents PART II The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate for 2008 was also lower, at 34.6% versus 58.1% in 2007. The 2007 rate was negatively impacted by goodwill impairment charges totaling $143 million, of which $95 million were non deductible. This caused the 2007 rate as a percent of pre tax income to be much higher than normal. In 2008, a tax benefit associated with the write off of an acquired companys stock was offset by increased reserves for uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances against deferred tax assets for certain foreign entities. In the third quarter of 2008, we recorded a $4 million valuation allowance against certain foreign tax assets. The valuation allowance related to our Canadian automotive operations that produce lumbar supports. The automotive industry is currently in a dramatic state of decline, which has reduced the demand for our components. In addition to demand factors, these operations have also been negatively impacted by the strength in recent years of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar (our Canadian automotive operations sell in U.S. dollars while incurring labor and overhead costs in Canadian dollars, thereby reducing margins). As a result, we believe it is more likely than not we wont realize the benefit of deferred tax assets associated with these operations. As a result of recording this tax valuation allowance, we specifically reviewed expected future cash flows for this component of the Automotive Reporting Unit as part of the annual long lived asset impairment review. Based upon current facts and circumstances, we believe that the carrying value of these operations is recoverable through future operating cash flows. Performance in 2007 and the first half of 2008 was negatively impacted by the strength of the Canadian versus the U.S. Dollar. While it is difficult to predict the future movement in exchange rates, the Canadian dollar has recently weakened versus the U.S. Dollar. If that trend were to continue, this would contribute to the improvement of margins going forward. The carrying value of these operations was $51 million at December 31, 2008, and we expect the future cash flows to recover those assets. Currently, the operations generate positive cash flows that we expect to improve in 2009 through the combination of overhead reductions and reduced material costs caused by expected lower steel prices. We continue to be awarded new product placements so we believe market share loss is not a factor impacting recent performance. Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2008 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. The Residential Furnishings reported amounts for 2007 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the reclassification of our Coated Fabrics business unit from continuing to discontinued operations. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117. 44 Table of Contents PART II Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 2,120 $ 151 7.1 % Year ended December 31, 2007 2,254 174 7.7 % Decrease $ (134 ) $ (23 ) % decrease (6 )% (13 )% Internal sales decrease (5 )% Small divestitures (1 )% Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2008, reflecting weak market demand. This decrease was partially offset by inflation related price increases and market share gains in our U.S. bedding business (discussed under Consolidated Results above). Demand in our U.S. residential markets was weak throughout 2008, but softened further in late September reflecting reduced spending by consumers on large ticket items that contain our products. International markets, which were relatively stronger earlier in the year, also experienced much softer demand in the latter part of the year as a result of deteriorating global economic conditions. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2007 due to lower sales and higher asset impairments and restructuring related costs (of $14 million), partially offset by a gain from the sale of a business (of $8 million) and operating improvements in certain locations. Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 711 $ 14 2.0 % Year ended December 31, 2007 837 (104 ) (12.4 )% (Decrease) increase $ (126 ) $ 118 % (decrease) increase (15 )% 113 % Internal sales decrease (15 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2008 due to several factors, including our decision in the Store Fixtures business to exit specific sales volume with unacceptable margins, reduced capital spending by retailers, and lower demand for office furniture components. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus the prior year, primarily due to the non recurrence of last years goodwill impairment charge (of $143 million), partially offset by lower sales. 45 Table of Contents PART II Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 966 $ 96 9.9 % Year ended December 31, 2007 776 55 7.1 % Increase $ 190 $ 41 % increase 24 % 75 % Internal sales increase 24 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 2008 sales increased significantly, primarily from the pass through of higher steel costs and increased sales of steel billets. Ongoing weak demand in many of our markets (including bedding, furniture, and automotive) offset a portion of the sales gain. EBIT and EBIT margins also increased versus 2007, primarily due to higher sales and operating improvements in certain locations. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 682 $ 41 6.0 % Year ended December 31, 2007 715 65 9.1 % Decrease $ (33 ) $ (24 ) % decrease (5 )% (37 )% Internal sales decrease (5 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2008, primarily reflecting weak demand that continued throughout the year in our North American automotive business and the fleet portion of Commercial Vehicle Products. Our machinery and European and Asian automotive businesses posted full year sales growth despite demand softening late in the year. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the prior year, mainly due to lower sales, higher restructuring related costs (of $4 million), and higher steel costs with limited recovery. Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $52 million, from a loss of $71 million in 2007 to a loss of $19 million in 2008. This earnings increase was primarily due to lower asset impairments and restructuring related charges (of $90 million), partially offset by the non recurrence of a 2007 tax benefit (of $30 million) associated with a difference in book and tax basis of an acquired companys stock as a result of reaching held for sale status. 46 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2007 vs. 2006 During 2007, sales from continuing operations decreased slightly. We reported a full year net loss of $.06 per share due to non cash charges following the implementation of the strategic plan announced in November 2007. Operationally, 2007 earnings reflected ongoing soft demand in the U.S. residential markets. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2007, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. Reported amounts for 2007 and 2006 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the reclassification of our Coated Fabrics business unit from continuing to discontinued operations. Amount % (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 4,267 Acquisition sales growth 119 2.8 % Small divestitures (27 ) (0.6 )% Internal sales decline (109 ) (2.6 )% Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 4,250 (0.4 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 236 Goodwill impairment in Fixture & Display (120 ) Asset impairment (3 ) Higher restructuring related charges (4 ) Tax items (24 ) Other factors including lower internal sales, partially offset by earnings from recent acquisitions (26 ) Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 59 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2006 $ 1.26 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2007 $ 0.33 During 2007, sales from continuing operations decreased slightly, with acquisition growth (net of small divestitures) more than offset by lower internal sales (i.e. excluding acquisitions and divestitures). We experienced soft demand throughout 2007 in the U.S. home related and retail markets that we serve, but these declines were partially offset by strength in most of our international markets and the non dealer portion of the domestic Commercial Vehicle Products business. These trends are discussed in the segment results below. Full year earnings from continuing operations of $.33 per share were significantly lower than the prior year, primarily due to the non cash charges and tax items, but also from weak demand in many of our domestic markets. 47 Table of Contents PART II Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense in 2007 was generally comparable to 2006. The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate in 2007 was 58.1%, versus 29.6% in 2006. The 2006 rate was below historical levels primarily due to the benefit from the write off of an acquired companys stock, and a reduction in the valuation allowance for foreign tax credits recorded in 2005 as part of a foreign entity restructuring and cash repatriation transaction. The 2007 rate was negatively impacted by goodwill impairment charges totaling $143 million, of which $95 million were non deductible. This caused the 2007 rate as a percent of pre tax income to be much higher than normal. Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2007 sales and EBIT from continuing operations for each of our segments. The Residential Furnishings reported amounts for 2007 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the reclassification of our Coated Fabrics business unit from continuing to discontinued operations. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 2,254 $ 174 7.7 % Year ended December 31, 2006 2,358 231 9.8 % Decrease $ (104 ) $ (57 ) % decrease (4 )% (25 )% Internal sales decrease (6 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 2 % Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2007, reflecting lower internal sales. Acquisitions (net of two small divestitures) partially offset the decline. The sales decrease is primarily due to soft demand in the U.S. residential markets during 2007 and very strong sales in our carpet underlay business during 2006. International demand for both bedding and upholstered furniture components was considerably stronger, and partially offset the domestic sales declines. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2006 primarily due to the internal sales decline. Lower asset impairment and restructuring related charges ($9 million in 2007 vs. $12 million in 2006) and earnings from recent acquisitions partially offset the EBIT impact from reduced sales. 48 Table of Contents PART II Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 837 $ (104 ) (12.4 )% Year ended December 31, 2006 861 60 7.0 % Decrease $ (24 ) $ (164 ) % decrease (3 )% (273 )% Internal sales decrease (3 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2007, primarily due to lower Store Fixtures volume and our decision to walk away from sales with unacceptable margins, but also from slightly lower demand for office furniture components. EBIT and EBIT margins were significantly lower than 2006, primarily due to a large, non cash goodwill impairment charge. The major factors impacting EBIT were: Goodwill impairment ($143 million) Higher asset impairment and restructuring related charges ($14 million in 2007 vs. $3 million in 2006) Lower internal sales These items were partially offset by gains from the sales of assets ($8 million). Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 776 $ 55 7.1 % Year ended December 31, 2006 784 55 7.0 % Decrease $ (8 ) $ % decrease (1 )% 0 % Internal sales decrease (3 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 2 % Internal sales declined during the year, but this decrease was mostly offset by acquisitions (net of small divestitures). Continued softness in the U.S. residential markets led to lower unit volume in our wire operations, but this decline was partially offset by inflation related sales growth (from price increases we implemented to recover higher raw material costs). EBIT and EBIT margins were flat with the prior year, as the impact of lower sales was offset by earnings from an acquired business. 49 Table of Contents PART II Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 715 $ 65 9.1 % Year ended December 31, 2006 621 43 6.9 % Increase $ 94 $ 22 % increase 15 % 51 % Internal sales growth 11 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 4 % Strong sales increases in 2007 reflected world wide growth in our automotive business, and continued solid performance in the non dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products. Acquisitions (net of a small divestiture) also contributed to higher sales during the year. EBIT and EBIT margins improved significantly, reflecting higher sales in the segment and earnings from a company acquired early in 2007. These gains were partially offset as the strength of the Canadian dollar negatively impacted our automotive business (we incur costs in Canadian dollars and sell in U.S. dollars). Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, declined $135 million, from $64 million in 2006 to a loss of $71 million in 2007. The earnings decline was primarily due to: Higher asset impairments and restructuring related charges (of $121 million) Non recurrence of the 2006 reimbursement of a duty on Canadian lumber imports (of $10 million) Softer demand, lower capacity utilization, and manufacturing inefficiencies in certain operations These items were partially offset by a tax benefit (of $30 million) associated with a difference in book and tax basis of an acquired companys stock as a result of reaching held for sale status. 50 Table of Contents PART II LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details, reflecting both continuing and discontinued operations, about our: Uses of cash Cash from operations Debt position and total capitalization We use cash for the following: Finance capital requirements (e.g. productivity, growth and acquisitions) Pay dividends Repurchase our stock Typically, our operations provide much of the cash we require, and debt may also be used to fund a portion of our needs. However in 2008, cash proceeds from completed divestitures were another significant source of funds. We ended 2008 with net debt to net capital of 28.4%, below our long term target, and in line with year end 2007 levels. Our long term target is to have net debt as a percent of net capital in the 30% 40% range. Page 57 presents a table of the calculation of net debt as a percent of net capital at the end of the past two years. Uses of Cash Finance Capital Requirements For the next year or two, improving returns of the existing asset base will continue to be our primary focus. However, cash is available to fund selective growth, both internally (through capital expenditures) and externally (through acquisitions). 51 Table of Contents PART II Capital expenditures include investments we make to modernize, maintain, and expand manufacturing capacity. With our move to role based portfolio management, we are more restrictive in funding capital projects. Capital spending in 2009 is expected to be reduced to about $100 million. Growth capital, which had historically been available to all our businesses, is now predominantly earmarked for our Grow business units. Operations designated as Core business units receive capital primarily for productivity enhancements, but expansion capital is limited. We have also set a higher bar for acquisitions, and plan to pursue disciplined growth through fewer, but more strategic, opportunities. We will seek acquisitions within our growth businesses, and will also look for longer term opportunities to enter new, higher growth markets that meet strict criteria. As a result of the new acquisition criteria, no significant acquisitions were completed in 2008. In 2007, we acquired three businesses that were expected to add about $100 million to annual revenue ($20 million in Commercial Fixturing & Components, $50 million in Industrial Materials, and $30 million in Specialized Products). These businesses: established a foothold in Asian production of office chair controls manufactured coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers, and presented Leggett with expanded technologies and cross segment selling opportunities broadened our suite of products for commercial vehicle interiors We acquired five businesses in 2006 that were expected to add about $75 million to annual revenue. All these transactions occurred in the Residential Furnishings segment. These acquisitions: broadened our geographic presence and product offerings in geo components expanded our rubber carpet underlay business added to our international spring operations In addition to the initial cash outlays for acquisitions (shown in the accompanying chart), we also assumed debt of $5 million in 2006 and $24 million in 2007. We provide additional details about acquisitions in Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 100. 52 Table of Contents PART II Pay Dividends With planned improvements in returns, a decrease in capital spending and acquisitions, and the completion of the divestitures, we expect (and have recently had) more available cash to return to shareholders. Higher annual dividends are one means by which that will occur. In late 2007, we raised our quarterly dividend to $.25 per share, a 39% increase over the previous $.18 per share quarterly rate. This marks, for 2008, Leggetts 37th consecutive annual dividend increase at an average compound annual growth rate of over 14%. Our targeted dividend payout is approximately 50 60% of net earnings, but has been higher recently and will likely remain above targeted levels for the next few years. Maintaining and increasing the dividend remains a high priority. We expect to spend approximately $155 million on dividends in 2009 (less than in 2008 because of share repurchases). Cash from operations has been in recent years, and is expected to continue to be, sufficient to fund both capital expenditures and dividends. Repurchase Stock Share repurchases are the other means by which we return cash to shareholders. During the past three years, we repurchased a total of 33 million shares of our stock and 53 Table of Contents PART II reduced outstanding shares by about 15%. We repurchased a record 16 million of these shares in 2008, or approximately 9% of shares outstanding, at an average per share price of $18.70. As we have consistently stated, we intend to use the majority of divestiture proceeds to buy shares of our stock, and to date, we have used approximately half of those funds. The remaining purchases are expected to be completed at a slower pace than previously anticipated as we cautiously await indications that the economy is improving. Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have been authorized by the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares in 2009. Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Earnings and changes in working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. Cash from operations in 2008, though strong, was $178 million lower than in 2007 primarily due to a smaller year over year decrease in working capital. Extremely weak market demand in the latter part of 2008 (which resulted from the financial and credit market distress and related impact on U.S. and global economies) negatively impacted earnings. We expect this demand weakness to continue in 2009. Working capital decreased in 2008 (the changes by major category are reflected in the table below). Fourth quarter production cuts resulted in lower inventory levels (versus the prior year). Accounts receivable also declined primarily due to extremely weak sales late in the year. We continue to aggressively manage our operations in an effort to further improve our working capital position. Some of our specific actions include reducing raw material purchases and production levels where appropriate, increasing collection efforts to ensure customer accounts are paid on time, and optimizing payment terms with our vendors. In 2007, cash from operations increased $135 million versus 2006, as significant working capital improvements offset lower earnings. The working capital improvements resulted primarily from better accounts receivable collections and ongoing efforts to manage inventories. 54 Table of Contents PART II The following table presents key working capital measures at the end of the past two years. Amount (in millions) # Days Outstanding 2008 2007(4) Decrease 2008 2007 Decrease Accounts Receivable, net (1) $ 550 $ 630 $ 80 49 54 5 Inventory, net (2) $ 495 $ 591 $ 96 53 62 8 Accounts Payable (3) $ 175 $ 225 $ 50 19 24 5 (1) The accounts receivable ratio represents the days of sales outstanding calculated as: ending net accounts receivable &divide; (net sales &divide; number of days in the year). (2) The inventory ratio represents days of inventory on hand calculated as: ending net inventory &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). (3) The accounts payable ratio represents the days of payables outstanding calculated as: ending accounts payable &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). (4) 2007 amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to move the Coated Fabrics business unit to held for sale and discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2008. Working capital levels vary by segment. The Commercial Fixturing & Components segment typically has relatively higher accounts receivable balances due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Fixture & Display group. This business group also generally requires higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of its products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. At December 31, 2007, we reclassified certain assets related to the planned divestitures as held for sale and ceased depreciation and amortization on those assets. Depreciation and amortization expense in 2008 was $43 million lower than in 2007, primarily as a result of the divestitures. 55 Table of Contents PART II Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 774 $ 796 $ 906 Average interest rates (1) 4.7 % 4.9 % 5.0 % Average maturities in years (1) 6.4 6.8 7.4 Revolving credit/commercial paper 77 205 154 Total long term debt 851 1,001 1,060 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 134 139 163 Shareholders equity (2) 1,653 2,133 2,351 Total capitalization $ 2,638 $ 3,273 $ 3,574 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 523 $ 395 $ 246 Short term Total unused committed credit $ 523 $ 395 $ 246 Current maturities of long term debt $ 22 $ 89 $ 52 Cash and cash equivalents $ 165 $ 205 $ 132 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (3) 3.6 x 2.6 x 5.0 x (1) These calculations include current maturities, but exclude commercial paper to reflect the averages of outstanding debt with scheduled maturities. (2) Shareholders Equity decreased $480 million in 2008, primarily reflecting net share repurchases of $234 million, dividends of $165 million, and currency impacts of $146 million. (3) Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, plus implied interest included in operating leases. Earnings consist principally of income from continuing operations before income taxes, plus fixed charges. The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2008 and 2007, calculated in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. 56 Table of Contents PART II We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows a more meaningful comparison to periods during which cash fluctuates significantly. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2008 2007 Long term debt $ 851 $ 1,001 Current debt maturities 22 89 Cash and cash equivalents (165 ) (205 ) Net debt $ 708 $ 885 Total capitalization $ 2,638 $ 3,273 Current debt maturities 22 89 Cash and cash equivalents (165 ) (205 ) Net capitalization $ 2,495 $ 3,157 Long term debt to total capitalization 32.2 % 30.6 % Net debt to net capitalization 28.4 % 28.0 % Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) decreased $217 million in 2008. During the year, we reduced our commercial paper borrowings by $128 million and paid off $89 million of other long term debt that came due. We can raise cash by issuing up to $600 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $600 million revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of 16 lenders that terminates in 2012. At December 31, 2008, $77 million of commercial paper was outstanding under this program and is classified as long term debt. Cash proceeds from the divestitures (discussed on page 35) were used to reduce our outstanding commercial paper balance during 2008. Our commercial paper program has continued to operate efficiently during the recent disruption of global credit markets. However, the change in the credit markets and our short term ratings downgrade (discussed below) has resulted in an increase of less than 100 basis points in the weighted average effective borrowing rate for the commercial paper issued. This would equate to an additional annual interest cost of less than $1 million based on the level of commercial paper that was issued at the end of 2008. In the event that the disruption in the credit markets was to become so severe that we were unable to issue commercial paper, we have the contractual right to draw funds directly on our revolving credit agreement. In such event, the cost of borrowing under the credit agreement could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowing. The revolving credit agreement provides for the ability to replace outstanding letters of credit. To the extent that we utilize these commitments for letters of credit, it would reduce our commercial paper/loan capacity by a corresponding amount. Over the last two years the list of specific banks participating in our revolving credit agreement has modestly changed as some banks have assigned their lending commitments under the agreement to other participating banks or new participants, all of which have assumed the respective lending obligations. These assignments and assumptions have had no material impact on the availability of credit under the agreement or on the terms or covenants of the agreement. Based on the information currently available to us, we believe that the participating banks continue to have the ability to meet their obligations under the agreement. 57 Table of Contents PART II With anticipated operating cash flows and the commercial paper program in place, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and fund future growth. Most of our debt has fixed repayment dates. At the end of 2008, this debt consisted primarily of term notes. We have maintained a debt rating in the A category (from Moodys and Standard and Poors) on our term notes and public debt for over a decade. On November 12, 2008, Moodys downgraded our long term debt rating from A2 to A3 and our commercial paper rating from P1 to P2 citing accelerating contraction in residential and automotive related consumer spending. On November 25, 2008, S&P downgraded our long term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings from A to A and our short term and commercial paper ratings from A 1 to A 2 citing weak market conditions and financial policies that include a high dividend payout and share repurchases. In addition, both Moodys and S&P assigned a negative outlook to each of their respective ratings. The ratings downgrades have not had an impact on our ability to issue commercial paper, but they have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, our cost of short term borrowing. Also, if we choose to borrow under our $600 million revolving credit agreement, which expires in 2012, our interest cost under this agreement would be increased approximately five basis points as a result of the new ratings. We do not expect the ratings downgrades to have a material impact on our liquidity or our ability to access the long term credit market. These credit ratings reflect the views of the rating agency only. An explanation of the significance of these ratings may be obtained from the rating agency. These ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Any rating can be revised upward or downward or withdrawn at any time by a rating agency if it decides that the circumstances warrant the change. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, each rating should be evaluated separately. 58 Table of Contents PART II CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual obligations and commitments: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total LessThan 1Year 1 3Years 3 5Years MoreThan 5Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt (1) $ 869 $ 21 $ 10 $ 279 $ 559 Capitalized leases 5 1 4 Operating leases 130 37 50 27 16 Purchase obligations (2) 315 315 Interest payments (3) 251 49 72 65 65 Deferred income taxes 17 17 Other obligations (4) 116 3 13 7 93 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,703 $ 426 $ 149 $ 378 $ 750 (1) The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. Long term debt includes $77 million of outstanding commercial paper. We have classified commercial paper as long term debt (due in 3 5 years) since the commercial paper program is supported by a $600 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. (2) Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. (3) Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 at rates in effect at the end of the year. These totals include interest on the $77 million of outstanding commercial paper discussed above. (4) Other obligations include uncertain tax positions of $38 million in the More Than 5 Years column because these obligations are long term in nature and actual payment dates can not be specifically determined. Other obligations also include our current estimate of minimum contributions to defined benefit pension plans. 59 Table of Contents PART II CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur. Critical accounting estimates are those that are: a) subject to uncertainty and change, and b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed here are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements: Asset and goodwill impairment Inventory Workers compensation, general liability, and employee benefit programs Credit losses Pension accounting Income taxes Contingencies We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 82. Asset and Goodwill Impairment Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, and as triggering events occur. Other long lived assets are tested for recoverability at year end and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The assessments are performed to ensure that future cash flows (from use of the assets) exceed the assets book value. In doing so, we make judgments and estimates about: a) the future cash flows expected from use (and eventual disposition) of the assets, and b) the assets fair market values. If actual future cash flows are lower than our estimates, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. Our ten reporting units for goodwill purposes (related to continuing operations) are one level below our operating segments, and are the same as the business groups disclosed in Item 1. Business. We assess our reporting units for possible goodwill impairment on an annual basis and whenever events warrant. In doing so, we estimate the fair market values of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow model and comparable market values for similar entities using price to earnings ratios. Key assumptions and estimates used in the cash flow model include discount rate, internal sales growth, margins, capital expenditure requirements, and working capital requirements. Recent performance of the reporting unit is an important factor, but not the only factor, in our assessment. 60 Table of Contents PART II The annual goodwill impairment review performed in June 2008 indicated no goodwill impairments. As a result of the deterioration in the economic and financial climate in the fourth quarter of 2008, interim goodwill and other long lived asset impairment analyses were performed in the fourth quarter. The goodwill analysis confirmed that estimated fair values exceeded carrying values for all reporting units. Future cash flow assumptions were reduced to reflect lower sales and production levels for 2009 and 2010, returning to historical levels thereafter. Other long lived asset impairment charges of $12 million were recorded in the fourth quarter 2008. If actual results differ from estimates used in these calculations, the Company could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. Throughout 2008, we recorded $26 million of goodwill and $6 million of other long lived asset impairments related to businesses held for sale as updated estimates of fair value less costs to sell became more certain. In June 2007, we performed the annual goodwill impairment review and determined that no impairments were indicated for any reporting units. In the fourth quarter 2007, we performed an interim goodwill impairment review as a result of the November Strategic Plan which was considered a triggering event as defined in FAS 142. The fair value of each reporting unit was adjusted to reflect the significant decrease in the Companys overall market value since June. In addition, individual reporting units impacted by the 2007 Strategic Plan were revised to reflect updated margin and growth assumptions. Since the carrying amounts of our Fixture & Display and Aluminum Products reporting units were determined to exceed their fair values, we performed the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying value of the goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. That is, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units identified above were determined using the discounted cash flow method and comparable market values for similar entities using price to earnings ratios. Application of the discounted cash flow method requires significant projections and assumptions. The significant assumptions used in this approach include estimates of our future revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, operating plans, industry data and other relevant factors. As a result of this process, we recorded goodwill impairment charges in the fourth quarter of 2007 related to the Fixture & Display and Aluminum Products reporting units of $143 and $83 million, respectively. In addition, we recorded goodwill and asset impairments of $51 million in the fourth quarter 2007 relating to other held for sale locations. Discounted cash flow projections for these two reporting units were based on 10 year financial forecasts. These forecasts were based on annual financial forecasts developed internally by management for use in managing the business. The significant assumptions of these forecasts included a compound annual growth rate during the 10 years of 5% and 61 Table of Contents PART II 4% related to Fixture & Display and Aluminum Products, respectively. Terminal values for each reporting unit were calculated using a long term growth rate of 3%. Future cash flows were discounted to present value using a discount rate of 12% for Fixture & Display and 13% for Aluminum Products. Actual results may differ materially from these assumptions. If actual results differ from estimates used in these calculations, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges in the Fixture & Display reporting unit. Inventory In determining the value of inventories, we make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow moving (i.e. not selling very quickly). If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to have no value and are written down completely. If we have more than a one years supply of a product, we value that inventory at net realizable value (what we think we will recover); historically, this write down has been approximately 35% on average. At December 31, 2008, we had reduced inventory values of continuing operations by $38 million (approximately 6% of the total FIFO inventory) to account for obsolete and slow moving items. At December 31, 2007, an adjustment of $43 million had been recognized, resulting in a decrease in the valuation allowance during 2008 of $5 million. A summary of the inventory valuation allowance by segment is as follows (in millions): Segment 2008 2007 Residential Furnishings $ 9 $ 13 (1) Commercial Fixturing & Components 14 14 Industrial Materials 4 3 Specialized Products 11 13 Total $ 38 $ 43 (1) The 2007 valuation allowance in Residential Furnishings includes $3 million for the Coated Fabrics business that we intend to divest as part of the 2007 Strategic Plan, but that did not meet the requirements for held for sale and discontinued operations treatment until 2008. These adjustments relate to a broad range of products. The majority of the Residential Furnishings valuation allowance relates to innerspring products, steel mechanisms and hardware for furniture, and structural fabrics for mattresses and furniture. The Commercial Fixturing & Components valuation allowance is primarily for store fixtures and displays, and to a lesser extent, office components and chair controls. The Industrial Materials valuation allowance is mostly for wire retail fixtures. The Specialized Products valuation allowance is for automotive lumbar and seat suspension systems, digital printing machinery, and component parts used in the assembly of van interiors. Workers Compensation, General Liability, and Employee Benefit Programs We are substantially self insured for certain costs related to workers compensation, automobile, product and general liability, property, and medical insurance. When estimating the potential amounts we might have to pay (since we are self insured), we consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. 62 Table of Contents PART II Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $26 million annually for costs associated with these insurance programs. Average year to year variation over the past five years has been approximately $3 million. At December 31, 2008, we had accrued $71 million to cover future self insurance liabilities. Credit Losses Our customers are diverse. Many are small to medium sized companies, and some are highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning. We regularly evaluate the ability of our customers to pay what they owe us. When we become aware of a specific customers potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible. We consider factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical experience. The total amount of credit losses over the last three years is $35 million. At December 31, 2008, our reserves for doubtful accounts not held for sale totaled $38 million (about 6% of our accounts and notes receivable of $634 million). Pension Accounting For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations. The two most critical assumptions affecting these estimates are the discount rate and the expected return on assets. Other assumptions include rates of compensation increases, withdrawal and mortality rates, and retirement ages. These estimates impact the pension expense or income we recognize and our reported benefit obligations. We have recognized the impact of individual plans funded amounts on the balance sheet, and in 2008, changed to a December 31 measurement date (from September 30 in previous years). To reflect market interest rates, in 2008 the discount rate for our major pension plans was unchanged at 6.0%. This follows an increase in 2007 from 5.75% to 6.0%. For 2008, we assumed long term returns of 8.0% on the assets of these plans, which was identical to our 2007 and 2006 assumptions. Sensitivity to changes in the critical assumptions for our major plans is as follows: Discount rate: a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $.5 million and decrease the plans funded status by approximately $5 million. Expected return on assets: a 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.4 million, but have no effect on the plans funded status. We expect that the combined contribution in 2009 to our defined benefit plans will total approximately $3 million. On December 31, 2006, our defined benefit Retirement Plan covering non union employees was frozen, thereby eliminating the future accrual of benefits to participants and closing the plan to future enrollment. This plan change reduced the projected benefit obligation by $12 million, and reduced 2007 pension expense by $4 million. Participants were moved to a defined contribution plan with a company contribution based upon the age of the participant. 63 Table of Contents PART II Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. At December 31, 2008, six open years were undergoing (or subject to) audit by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Canada Revenue Agency. Amended federal returns were filed with the IRS in 2008 for the 2004 tax year with a refund of $3 million expected. These filings are subject to review by the IRS, with the largest issue related to a research and development credit. In 2006, the IRS examination for the years 2002 and 2003 was concluded. A final report was issued, and the net refund of approximately $11 million, plus interest, was received in 2007. The largest issue pertained to a refund claim we made for a worthless stock deduction. The resolution of this item was reflected in 2006 as a reduction in the Companys overall tax rate. Canada Revenue Agency examinations are underway for 2003 through 2006, which are at various stages of completion, but to date the Company is not aware of any material adjustments. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had $24 million and $25 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Valuation reserves are established against future potential tax benefits to reflect the amounts that we believe have no more than a 50% probability of being realized. In addition, assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of such earnings. Contingencies Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. The Company has been named as one of numerous defendants in several cases consolidated as Gray v. Derderian, Case No. 1:04 CV 312 L, U.S.D.C. R.I. This litigation resulted from a nightclub fire in West Warwick, Rhode Island involving multiple deaths and injuries. Along with other foam manufacturing defendants, the Company is alleged to have manufactured and sold bulk polyurethane foam to a foam fabricator in Rhode Island, who in turn, is alleged to have fabricated and sold foam sheets to the nightclub. The foam was among other materials alleged to have caught fire when pyrotechnics were ignited inside the nightclub. The Company believes it did not manufacture the foam subject to the lawsuit and that it has valid defenses to the claims. Nevertheless, with the Companys consent, the 64 Table of Contents PART II Companys primary insurance carrier reached a tentative settlement with counsel for all plaintiffs on April 29, 2008. If the settlement is approved by the court, the Company will pay a $2 million self insured retention and the remainder of the $18.2 million settlement is the responsibility of the insurance carrier. The settlement is subject to contingencies, including approval by the court. Management does not believe the settlement or the outcome will have a material effect on the Companys financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. On February 5, 2009, a shareholder derivative complaint was filed by the New England Carpenters Pension Fund, which represented that it owns 3,000 shares of Leggett stock, in the Circuit Court of Jasper County, Missouri. The complaint is substantially similar to a lawsuit filed by the New England Carpenters Pension Fund in federal court on September 4, 2008, which the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed on September 26, 2008 without prejudice to its right to re file. However, this new lawsuit has fewer claims and asserts no federal causes of action. The action is purportedly brought on behalf of the Company, naming it as a nominal defendant and naming as defendants certain current and former officers and directors of the Company. The plaintiff alleges, among other things, that the individual defendants participated in the backdating of stock options, breached fiduciary duties, caused or allowed the Company to issue false and misleading financial statements and proxy statements, and sold Company stock while in possession of material non public information. The plaintiff seeks, among other things, unspecified monetary damages against the individual defendants, certain equitable and other relief relating to the profits from the alleged improper conduct, the adoption of certain Company corporate governance proposals, the imposition of a constructive trust over the defendants stock options and proceeds, punitive damages, the rescission of certain unexercised options, and the reimbursement of litigation costs. The plaintiff is not seeking any monetary relief from the Company. Policies of directors and officers liability insurance are in force, subject to customary limits and exclusions. The complaint is based on a statistical analysis of stock option grants and Leggett stock prices that we believe is flawed. We believe this lawsuit does not take into consideration important aspects of Leggetts stock option plans. For example, the plaintiff has noted only one set of stock option grants, made on December 30, 2005, within what we believe to be the applicable 5 year statute of limitations. These option grants were made in accordance with the Companys Deferred Compensation Program, which (i) provided that options would be dated on the last business day of December, and (ii) was filed with the SEC on December 2, 2005 setting out the pricing mechanism well before the grant date. We provided plaintiffs counsel with this publicly available documentation before they dismissed the prior federal court lawsuit. The Company expects that the outcome of this litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. 65 Table of Contents PART II NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 158 (SFAS 158), Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans provision which requires it to measure the funded status of its plans as of year end beginning with its December 31, 2008 balance sheet. The Company previously used September 30 as the measurement date for its most significant plans. The Company has chosen to perform a measurement that covers the 15 month period of October 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008. Upon implementation, a proportionate allocation was made to cover the net benefit income for the transition period and the Company recorded a $.5 million (net of tax) increase to beginning retained earnings on January 1, 2008. The Company previously adopted the provisions of this statement which were effective December 31, 2006 to recognize the funded status of its defined benefit plans in the balance sheet and to recognize as a component of other comprehensive income changes in funded status from year to year that are not otherwise reflected in income. As discussed in Note T to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 126, the provisions of SFAS No. 157 (SFAS 157), Fair Value Measurements were adopted on January 1, 2008 for financial assets and liabilities of the Company. SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities and requires additional disclosure. SFAS 157 also has an effective date of January 1, 2009 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. The Company has evaluated the effect of this standard and does not believe that it will have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 (SFAS 159), The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other instruments at fair value, with the objective of improving financial reporting by providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. As the Company did not elect to fair value any of its financial instruments under the provisions of SFAS 159, the adoption of this statement, effective January 1, 2008, did not have an impact on the financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R) (SFAS 141R), Business Combinations, which replaces SFAS 141. The new standard requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction and establishes the acquisition date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed. SFAS 141R is effective on a prospective basis for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009, with the exception of the accounting for valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies. SFAS 141R amends SFAS 109 such that adjustments made to valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies associated with acquisitions that closed prior to the effective date of SFAS 141R would also apply the provisions of SFAS 141R. Because the adoption of SFAS 141R will be applied prospectively, it is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. 66 Table of Contents PART II In December 2007, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 160 (SFAS 160), Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, which seeks to improve the relevance, comparability, and transparency of financial information provided to investors by requiring all entities to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries in the same way as equity in their consolidated financial statements. SFAS 160 is also effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009, and its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161 (SFAS 161), Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. The new standard requires enhanced disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities and their effects on an entitys financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. The statement requires disclosure of objectives and strategies for derivative instruments, disclosure of the fair values of derivative instruments and their gains and losses in a tabular format, disclosure of contingent derivative features that are credit risk related, and requires cross referencing within footnotes if the required disclosures are presented in more than one footnote. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. Its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In April 2008, FASB Staff Position (FSP) SFAS No. 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets was issued. This FSP amends the factors that must be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life over which to amortize the cost of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142 (SFAS 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The FSP requires an entity to consider its own assumptions about renewal or extension of the term of the arrangement, consistent with its expected use of the asset, and is an attempt to improve consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations. The FSP is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009, and the guidance for determining the useful life of a recognized intangible asset must be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after the effective date. The Company does not expect the adoption of FSP SFAS No. 142 3 to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162 (SFAS 162), The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This statement identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements. It was effective 60 days following the Securities and Exchange Commissions approval on September 16, 2008, of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This statement will not result in a change in the Companys current practice. In October 2008, FSP SFAS No. 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active was issued. This FSP clarifies the application of FASB Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. This FSP was effective upon issuance. Its adoption did not have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 67 Table of Contents PART II In December 2008, FSP SFAS No. 132(R) 1, Employers Disclosure about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets was issued. This FSP requires additional disclosure surrounding plan assets of defined benefit pension plans in the Companys December 31, 2009 financial statements. Additional disclosures related to benefit plan assets include information about investment policies and strategies, the fair value of each major category of plan assets, and information that enables users of financial statements to assess the inputs and valuation techniques used to develop fair value measurements of plan assets. Its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) Interest Rates The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States Dollars. The fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $107.1 at December 31, 2008, and less than its carrying value by $45.1 at December 31, 2007. The decrease in the fair market value of the Companys debt is primarily due to the increase in credit spreads over risk free rates as compared to the prior year end. The fair value of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2008 was based upon a Bloomberg secondary market rate. The fair value of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2007 was based upon the U.S. Treasury bond rate for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Scheduled Maturity Date Long term debt as of December 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter 2008 2007 Principal fixed rate debt $ 15.0 $ $ $ $ 200.0 $ 530.0 $ 745.0 $ 816.5 Average interest rate 7.26 % % % % 4.70 % 4.73 % 4.77 % 4.91 % Principal variable rate debt .5 8.5 .5 .5 21.5 31.5 32.0 Average interest rate 3.50 % 1.43 % 3.50 % 3.50 % % 1.88 % 1.83 % 3.58 % Miscellaneous debt* 97.1 240.8 Total debt 873.6 1,089.3 Less: current maturities (22.4 ) (88.7 ) Total long term debt $ 851.2 $ 1,000.6 * Includes $77 and $205 of commercial paper in 2008 and 2007, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks, The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It 68 Table of Contents PART II is the Companys policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in Note R on page 123 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. Investment in Foreign Subsidiaries The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures, except for the net investment hedge discussed in Note R on page 123 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2008 2007 European Currencies $ 287.4 $ 328.5 Canadian Dollar 205.1 301.4 Chinese Renminbi 160.0 125.8 Mexican Peso 51.6 87.7 Other 44.5 70.7 Total $ 748.6 $ 914.1 
 
