Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 37, and Note C on page 85 and Note D on page 89 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Portfolio Management We now manage our business units as a portfolio, with different roles (Grow, Core, Fix, Divest) for each business unit based upon competitive advantages, strategic position, and financial health. During 2008 we implemented a rigorous strategic planning process, in part to continually assess each business units portfolio role. Historically, we managed all businesses fairly uniformly, with each awarded capital and expected to grow significantly; that is no longer the case. Business units in the Grow category should provide avenues for profitable growth in competitively advantaged positions. Core business units are expected to enhance productivity, maintain market share, and generate cash flow from operations while using minimal capital. Business units in the Fix category will be given a limited time in which to significantly improve performance (with some latitude given them due to the weak economy). Finally, a few small business units (and portions of business units) are considered non strategic, and will likely be divested as the M&A market recovers and allows for reasonable sales prices. Improving Returns and Margins on our Asset Base To remain in the portfolio, business units are expected to consistently generate after tax returns in excess of the Companys cost of capital. Each business unit has opportunity to improve, and may employ a variety of means to achieve higher returns including trimming expenses, introducing new products, improving productivity, adopting more disciplined pricing, reducing working capital, and consolidating assets. Business units that fail to consistently maintain minimum return goals will move to the Fix or Divest categories. During 2009 significant effort went into improving margins, despite economy driven reductions in sales. EBIT margin for 2008 was 5.7% on $4.1 billion of sales while EBIT margin for 2009 was 7.5% on sales of $3.1 billion. Gross margin for 2008 and 2009 was 17.0% and 20.6%, respectively. Disciplined Growth For the near term we expect to focus on better managing the current asset base and improving returns. That pursuit will require much of senior managements attention, and during this period revenue growth is likely to be minimal. Over the longer term, the Company expects to focus its growth efforts on a narrower set of higher quality opportunities, with a target of 4 5% annual revenue growth. Growth capital will be predominantly earmarked for the Grow business units, which are expected to expand at 9 Table of Contents PART I rates in excess of U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth. Core business units, for the most part, are operating in markets that grow more slowly than GDP, and are expected to at least maintain market share. Longer term growth is expected to incorporate product innovation and opportunities to enter new, higher growth businesses that meet strict criteria. Acquisitions and Divestitures Historically, our typical acquisition targets have been small, private, profitable, entrepreneurial companies that manufacture goods either within our existing product lines or one step away from those product lines and complementary to our existing businesses. As part of our change in strategic direction, we expect fewer and more strategic acquisitions to be completed. All acquisitions should create value by enhancing TSR; they should have clear strategic rationale and sustainable competitive advantage in attractive markets. 2009 and 2008 Acquisitions We had no significant acquisitions in 2009 or 2008. 2007 Acquisitions We acquired three businesses during 2007 with annualized sales of approximately $100 million broken down by segment as follows: Commercial Fixturing & Components $ 20 million Industrial Materials $ 50 million Specialized Products $ 30 million In Commercial Fixturing & Components we added one business located in China that produces office chair controls. We also added one business to the Industrial Materials segment, which produces coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers. Finally, in the Specialized Products segment, we added a business which is a designer and assembler of docking stations that secure computer and other electronic equipment inside vehicles. For further information about acquisitions, see Note R on page 114 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2009 Divestitures We divested the Coated Fabrics business unit (previously in the Residential Furnishings segment) in the third quarter of 2009. No significant gains or losses were realized on the sale of this unit. Coated Fabrics is reflected as a discontinued operation with 2009 revenue of approximately $12 million. An additional business unit, Storage Products, is targeted for divestiture. Although market conditions have delayed the timing of this disposition, we are fully committed to selling this business. 10 Table of Contents PART I 2008 Divestitures We divested five significant businesses in 2008 with annualized sales of approximately $780 million. The largest divestiture (approximately $485 million in annualized revenue) was the Aluminum Products segment which was sold in July 2008. We also sold four other business units in 2008 Wood Products and Fibers (previously in the Residential Furnishings segment); Plastics (previously in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment); and the dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products (previously in the Specialized Products segment). We received after tax cash proceeds of approximately $408 million for the five divested businesses, not including subordinated notes and preferred stock. All of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations. 2007 Divestitures In the first quarter of 2007, we divested our Prime Foam Products business unit (previously in the Residential Furnishings segment) and received after tax cash proceeds of approximately $70 million. Our former Prime Foam Products business unit had annual revenue of approximately $190 million and has been classified as a discontinued operation. For further information about divestitures and discontinued operations, see Note B on page 83 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Segment Financial Information For information about sales to external customers, sales by product line, earnings before interest and taxes, and total assets of each of our segments, refer to Note F on page 93 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign Operations The percentages of our external sales from continuing operations related to products manufactured outside the United States for the previous three years are shown below. 11 Table of Contents PART I Our international continuing operations are principally located in Europe, China, Canada and Mexico. The products we make in these countries primarily consist of: Europe Innersprings for mattresses Wire and wire products Lumbar and seat suspension systems for automotive seating Machinery and equipment designed to manufacture innersprings for mattresses and other bedding related components Design and distribution of point of purchase displays for retailers China Innersprings for mattresses Recliner mechanisms and bases for upholstered furniture Formed wire for upholstered furniture Retail store fixtures and gondola shelving Office furniture components, including chair bases and casters Stamped seat frames and formed metal products for automotive seating Cables and small electric motors used in lumbar systems for automotive seating Machinery and replacement parts for machines used in the bedding industry Canada Innersprings for mattresses Fabricated wire for the bedding, furniture and automotive industries Chair bases, table bases and office chair controls Lumbar supports for automotive seats Wire and steel storage systems and racks for the interior of service vans and utility vehicles Mexico Innersprings and fabricated wire for the bedding industry Retail shelving and point of purchase displays Automotive control cable systems Our international expansion strategy is to locate our operations where we believe demand for components is growing. Also, in instances where our customers move the production of their finished products overseas, we have located facilities nearby to supply them more efficiently. Our international operations face the risks associated with any operation in a foreign country. These risks include: Nationalization of private enterprises Political instability in certain countries Foreign legal systems that make it difficult to protect intellectual property and enforce contract rights Credit risks Increased costs due to tariffs, customs and shipping rates Potential problems obtaining raw materials, and disruptions related to the availability of electricity and transportation during times of crisis or war Foreign currency fluctuation 12 Table of Contents PART I Our Specialized Products segment, which derives 74% of its trade sales from foreign operations is particularly subject to the above risks. These and other foreign related risks could result in cost increases, reduced profits, the inability to carry on our foreign operations and other adverse effects on our business. Geographic Areas of Operation We have production, warehousing and distribution facilities in countries around the world. Below is a list of countries where we have facilities associated with continuing operations: ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components IndustrialMaterials SpecializedProducts North America Canada Mexico United States Europe Austria Belgium Croatia Denmark Germany Hungary Italy Switzerland United Kingdom South America Uruguay Brazil Asia / Pacific Australia China India South Korea Africa South Africa For further information concerning our external sales from continuing operations related to products manufactured outside the United States and our tangible long lived assets outside the United States, refer to Note F on page 93 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 13 Table of Contents PART I Sales by Product Line The following table shows our approximate percentage of external sales from continuing operations by classes of similar products for the last three years: Product Line 2007 2008 2009 Bedding Group 17 % 19 % 21 % Furniture Group 17 16 18 Fabric & Carpet Underlay Group 19 16 16 Wire Group 10 14 12 Fixture & Display Group 14 12 11 Automotive Group 9 8 8 Office Furniture Components Group 5 5 5 Commercial Vehicle Products Group 4 4 4 Machinery Group 3 3 3 Tubing Group 2 3 2 Distribution of Products In each of our segments, we sell and distribute our products primarily through our own sales personnel. However, many of our businesses have relationships and agreements with outside sales representatives and distributors. We do not believe any of these agreements or relationships would, if terminated, have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Raw Materials The products we manufacture in continuing operations require a variety of raw materials. Among the most important are: Various types of steel, including scrap, rod, wire, coil, sheet and angle iron Foam scrap Woven and non woven fabrics We supply our own raw materials for many of the products we make. For example, we produce steel rod that we make into steel wire, which we then use to manufacture: Innersprings and foundations for mattresses Springs and seat suspensions for chairs and sofas Displays, shelving and racks for retailers Automotive seating components We supply the majority of our steel rod requirements through our own rod mill. Our own wire drawing mills supply nearly all of our U.S. requirements for steel wire. We also produce welded steel tubing both for our own consumption and for sale to external customers. In addition, we believe that worldwide supply sources are available for all the raw materials we use. We have experienced volatility in raw material prices over the past few years, most notably in steel. Steel costs increased significantly in 2008 and we implemented price 14 Table of Contents PART I increases to recover these higher costs. Market prices for steel began to decrease in late 2008, but with the precipitous drop in demand late in the year and our inability to cancel or return higher priced earlier purchases, we entered 2009 with high steel costs in inventory. As steel costs decreased in 2009, we implemented selective price reductions; however at current commodity cost levels, we have enhanced our margins. The future pricing of raw materials is uncertain. The degree to which we are able to mitigate or recover higher costs, should they occur, could influence our future earnings. Also, if raw material costs decrease there may be downward pressure on selling prices, temporarily resulting in lower segment margins as we consume higher cost inventories. Higher raw material costs in recent years have led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. In some cases, higher cost components have been replaced with lower cost components, causing us to shift production accordingly. This has primarily impacted profit margins in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of innersprings and box springs) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and in certain instances, provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Customer Concentration We serve thousands of customers worldwide, sustaining many long term business relationships. In 2009, no customer accounted for more than 6% of our consolidated revenues from continuing operations. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 21% of these consolidated revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, as a whole, or on the respective segment in which the customers sales are reported, including our Residential Furnishings, Commercial Fixturing & Components and Specialized Products segments. 15 Table of Contents PART I Patents and Trademarks The chart below shows the approximate numbers of patents issued, patents in process, trademarks registered and trademarks in process held by our continuing operations at the end of 2009. No single patent or group of patents, or trademark or group of trademarks, is material to our continuing operations. Most of our patents and trademarks relate to products sold in the Specialized Products and Residential Furnishings segments. Some of our most significant trademarks include: Semi Flex&reg; (boxspring components and foundations) Mira Coil&reg;, VertiCoil&reg;, Lura Flex&reg; and Superlastic&reg; (mattress innersprings) Lifestyles, S cape&reg; and Adjustables&reg; by Leggett & Platt&reg; (adjustable electric beds) Wall Hugger&reg; (recliner chair mechanisms) Super Sagless&reg; (motion and sofa sleeper mechanisms) No Sag&reg; (wire forms used in seating) Tack & Jump&reg; and Pattern Link&reg; (quilting machines) Hanes&reg; (fiber materials) Schukra&reg;, Pullmaflex&reg; and Flex O Lator&reg; (automotive seating products) Spuhl&reg; (mattress innerspring manufacturing machines) Gribetz and Porter&reg; (quilting and sewing machines) Quietflex&reg; and Masterack&reg; (equipment and accessories for vans and trucks) Research and Development We maintain research, engineering and testing centers in Carthage, Missouri and do additional research and development work at many of our other facilities. We are unable to calculate precisely the cost of research and development because the personnel involved in product and machinery development also spend portions of their time in other areas. However, we estimate the cost of research and development associated with continuing operations ranged from $20 to $30 million per year in each of the last three years. 16 Table of Contents PART I Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 18,500 employees associated with our continuing operations, of which roughly 13,200 were engaged in production. Of the 18,500, approximately 8,200 are international employees. Labor unions represent roughly 12% of our employees associated with continuing operations. We did not experience any material work stoppage related to contract negotiations with labor unions during 2009. Management is not aware of any circumstances likely to result in a material work stoppage related to contract negotiations with labor unions during 2010. The chart below shows the approximate number of employees associated with continuing operations by segment. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 20,600 employees associated with continuing operations. Employees in Discontinued Operations At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 300 employees associated with discontinued operations, all of which are in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had approximately 490 and 6,550 employees, respectively, associated with its discontinued operations. For more information on our discontinued operations, see Note B on page 83 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition Many companies offer products that compete with those we manufacture and sell. The number of competing companies varies by product line, but many of the markets for our 17 Table of Contents PART I products are highly competitive. We tend to attract and retain customers through product quality, innovation, competitive pricing and customer service. Many of our competitors try to win business primarily on price but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. We believe we are the largest independent manufacturer in North America, in terms of revenue, of the following: Components for residential furniture and bedding Carpet underlay Components for office furniture Drawn steel wire Automotive seat support and lumbar systems Adjustable beds Bedding industry machinery for wire forming, sewing and quilting We face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, we believe our operations should be located nearby to supply them efficiently. Accordingly, at the end of 2009, Leggett operated 10 facilities in China. In recent years we experienced increased competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. We reacted to this competition by selectively adjusting prices, and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. The increased price competition for bedding components was partially due to lower wire costs in China. Asian manufacturers benefit from cost advantages for commodities such as steel and chemicals. Foreign manufacturers also benefit from lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. In late 2007, we filed an antidumping suit related to innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam. We saw a distinct decline in unfair imports during 2008 after the antidumping investigations began. As a result, we regained market share and performance in our Bedding group improved. The investigations were brought to a favorable conclusion in early 2009. The current antidumping duty rates on innersprings from these countries are significant, ranging from 116% to 234%, and should remain in effect for at least another four years. Imported innersprings from these countries are now supposed to be sold at fair prices, however the duties on certain innersprings are being evaded by various means including shipping the goods through a third country and misclassifying the actual country of origin. Leggett, along with several U.S. manufacturers of steel wire products with active antidumping and antidumping/countervailing duty orders, formed a coalition and are working with members of Congress, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection to seek stronger enforcement of existing antidumping and or countervailing duty orders. Seasonality As a diversified manufacturer, we generally have not experienced significant seasonality. The timing of acquisitions, dispositions, and economic factors in any year can distort the underlying seasonality in certain of our businesses. Nevertheless, for the Company as a whole, the second and third quarters typically have proportionately greater sales, while the first and fourth quarters are generally lower. 18 Table of Contents PART I Our four segments tend to experience seasonality as follows: Residential Furnishings: typically has the strongest sales in the second and third quarters due to increased consumer demand for bedding and furniture during those periods. Commercial Fixturing & Components: generally has heavy third quarter sales of its store fixture products, with the first and fourth quarters normally lower. This aligns with the retail industrys normal construction cycle the opening of new stores and completion of remodeling projects in advance of the holiday season. Industrial Materials: minimal variation in sales throughout the year. Specialized Products: relatively little quarter to quarter variation in sales, although the automotive business is somewhat heavier in the second and fourth quarters of the year and lower in the third quarter due to model changeovers and plant shutdowns in the automobile industry during the summer. Backlog Our customer relationships and our manufacturing and inventory practices do not create a material amount of backlog orders for any of our segments. Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to the level of incoming orders and projected demand based on customer relationships. Working Capital Items For further information regarding working capital items, see the discussion of Cash from Operations in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 50. Environmental Regulation Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. We have policies intended to ensure that our operations are conducted in compliance with applicable laws. While we cannot predict policy changes by various regulatory agencies, management expects that compliance with these laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, capital expenditures, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to address climate change that is intended to reduce overall green house gas emissions, including carbon dioxide. Similar initiatives are being pursued at the state level as well. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has made a determination that green house gas emissions may be a threat to human health and the environment. It is uncertain if, when, and in what form, a mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be enacted either through legislation or regulation. However, if enacted, this type of program could materially increase our operating costs, including costs of raw materials, transportation and electricity. In that event, our intent would be to raise prices in order to cover the cost increases. Internet Access to Information We routinely post information for investors to our website (www.leggett.com) under the Investor Relations section. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 19 Table of Contents PART I 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and all amendments to those reports are made available, free of charge, on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to these reports, the Companys Financial Code of Ethics, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as charters for its Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors can be found on our website. Information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Discontinued Operations As a result of our new strategic direction adopted at the end of 2007, several of our businesses are disclosed in our annual financial statements as discontinued operations since (i) the operations and cash flows of the businesses can be clearly distinguished and have been or will be eliminated from our ongoing operations; (ii) the businesses have either been disposed of or are classified as held for sale; and (iii) we do not, or will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the businesses after the disposal transactions. The discontinued operations include: Aluminum Products segment. We divested this segment in July 2008. It produced and sold non automotive aluminum, zinc and magnesium die castings, and new and refurbished dies (also known as molds or tools) for all types and sizes of die casting machines. It also provided machining, coating, finishing, sub assembly and other value added services for die cast components. These products and services were sold to (i) small engine and diesel engine builders; (ii) motorcycle, off road and recreational vehicle, truck and automobile makers; (iii) manufacturers of outdoor lighting fixtures, cable line amplifiers, wireless communications systems, and other cable and telecommunication products; (iv) consumer appliance and power tool manufacturers; (v) producers of electric motors, computers and electronics; (vi) gas barbeque grill manufacturers; and (vii) die cast manufacturers. Prime Foam Products unit, Wood Products unit, Fibers unit and the Coated Fabrics unit (each previously reported in the Residential Furnishings segment). (i) We divested the Prime Foam Products unit in the first quarter of 2007. It primarily produced commodity foam used for cushioning by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers. (ii) We divested the Wood Products unit in the third quarter of 2008. It sold wood frames and cut to size dimension lumber to bedding manufacturers. (iii) We divested the Fibers unit in the fourth quarter of 2008. It sold fiber cushioning material primarily to bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers. (iv) We divested the Coated Fabrics unit in the third quarter of 2009. It sold non slip rug underlay and shelf liners primarily to retailers and distributors. Plastics unit and the Storage Products unit (each previously reported in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment). (i) The Plastics unit, which was divested in the third quarter of 2008, sold injection molded plastic components primarily for manufacturers of lawn care equipment and power tools. 20 Table of Contents PART I (ii) The Storage Products unit sells storage racks and carts used in the food service and healthcare industries. This divestiture has not yet been completed. An automotive seating components operation and the dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products unit (each previously reported in the Specialized Products segment). (i) The automotive seating components operation, which we divested in the first quarter of 2008, sold welded assemblies, and wire and tubular frames for automotive seating. (ii) We divested the dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products unit in the third quarter of 2008. It sold truck bodies for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks and dump trucks primarily to end users of light to medium duty commercial trucks. For further information on discontinued operations, see Note B on page 83 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves risk. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this report. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC. We have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products. As a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. Our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. Market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. To a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, energy costs and interest rates. All of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Demand weakness in the majority of our markets in 2009 led to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. Several factors, including a weak global economy, a depressed housing market, and low consumer confidence contributed to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. Short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends; however, we currently expect market demand to stabilize at these lower levels. If economic and market conditions remain depressed or deteriorate further, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents PART I Deteriorating financial condition of our customers could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We serve customers in a variety of industries, some of which are experiencing unprecedented decreases in demand that began in late 2008 and have continued through 2009, due to the weak global economy. While we currently expect markets to stabilize, a sustained economic downturn increases the possibility that one or more of our significant customers, or a group of less significant customers, could become insolvent, which could adversely impact our sales, net earnings, financial condition, cash flow and liquidity. Costs of raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. Raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs move with the market. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we attempt to implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. Also, raw material cost decreases generally allow us to pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. Reduced selling prices tied to higher cost inventory reduces our segment margins and earnings. Steel is our most significant raw material. The global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been extremely volatile in recent years. This volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. Our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of foam scrap. We experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of this commodity in recent years. Higher raw material costs in recent years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. In some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. This has primarily impacted our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials product mix and decreased profit margins. This trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. We may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Continued economic uncertainty could change our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets. Asian competition could adversely affect our operating results. We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. We face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a 22 Table of Contents PART I portion of their components and finished products from Asia. If we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed. Our goodwill and other long lived assets are subject to potential impairment. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. At December 31, 2009, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.1 billion, or approximately 36% of our total assets. In addition, net property, plant and equipment, sundry assets and non current assets held for sale totaled approximately $748 million, or approximately 24% of total assets. We review our ten reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in June as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. In addition, we test for the recoverability of long lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. The annual goodwill impairment review performed in June 2009 indicated no goodwill impairments. Goodwill associated with reporting units whose fair values exceeded the carrying value by 10 20% was $373.4 million; $112.3 million of goodwill was associated with reporting units that had 20 30% excess fair value; and $442.5 million of goodwill was associated with reporting units that had fair values in excess of the carrying values by greater than 30%. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment in discontinued operations of $3.0 million for our Storage Products Unit because the carrying value of the assets held for sale exceeded fair value less costs to sell. Fair value and the resulting impairment charge were based primarily upon offers from potential buyers. For the year ended 2009, other long lived asset impairments were $2.8 million, substantially all of which were in continuing operations, for fixed assets to reflect estimates of fair value less costs to sell. If actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long lived asset calculations, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We are exposed to foreign currency risk. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. In 2009, 25% of our sales from continuing operations were generated by international operations. The revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. Further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. Foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 23 Table of Contents PART I Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. The Companys corporate headquarters are located in Carthage, Missouri. At December 31, 2009, we had 238 production, warehouse, sales and administrative facilities associated with continuing operations, of which 174 were disbursed across the United States and 64 were located in foreign countries. Properties by Location and Segment in Continuing Operations Company Wide Subtotals by Segment Locations ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components IndustrialMaterials SpecializedProducts United States 174 108 21 28 17 Canada 12 4 3 5 Mexico 7 3 2 2 Europe 16 5 2 9 Asia 23 8 4 11 Other 6 6 Total 238 134 30 30 44 Properties by Use and Segment in Continuing Operations Company Wide Subtotals by Segment Use ResidentialFurnishings CommercialFixturing &Components IndustrialMaterials SpecializedProducts Production1 146 76 21 18 31 Warehouse 57 37 6 8 6 Sales 14 7 2 2 3 Administration 21 14 1 2 4 Total 238 134 30 30 44 1 Includes some multi purpose facilities with additional warehouse, sales and or administrative uses. Facilities that we own produced approximately 70% of our sales from continuing operations in 2009. We also lease many of our production, warehouse and other facilities on terms that vary by lease (including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs). For additional information regarding lease obligations, see Note K on page 99 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 24 Table of Contents PART I In the opinion of management the Companys owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for the manufacture, assembly and distribution of our products. Our properties are located to allow quick and efficient delivery of products and services to our diverse customer base. Our productive capacity, in general, continues to exceed current operating levels. We face decisions about further facility consolidation but have chosen to retain excess capacity because we believe that eventually market demand will improve. With our currently low utilization levels, we should be able to readily accommodate that demand improvement when it occurs. At December 31, 2009 we had eight production or warehouse facilities classified as discontinued operations, of which seven were in the United States and one was in Mexico. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The information in Note T on page 118 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this section by reference. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents PART I Supplemental Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant. The following information is included in accordance with the provisions of Part III, Item 10 of Form 10 K and Item 401(b) of Regulation S K. The table below sets forth the names, ages and positions of all executive officers of the Company. Executive officers are normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors. Name Age Position David S. Haffner 57 President and Chief Executive Officer Karl G. Glassman 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Jack D. Crusa 55 Senior Vice President, Specialized Products Joseph D. Downes, Jr. 65 Senior Vice President, Industrial Materials Matthew C. Flanigan 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Paul R. Hauser 58 Senior Vice President, Residential Furnishings Ernest C. Jett 64 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Dennis S. Park 55 Senior Vice President, Commercial Fixturing & Components David M. DeSonier 51 Vice President, Strategy & Investor Relations John G. Moore 49 Vice President, Chief Legal & HR Officer and Secretary William S. Weil 51 Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Subject to the employment and severance benefit agreements with Mr. Haffner and Mr. Glassman, and the employment agreement with Mr. Flanigan, listed as exhibits to this Report, the executive officers generally serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. David S. Haffner was appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2006 and has served as President of the Company since 2002. He served as Chief Operating Officer from 1999 to 2006 and as the Companys Executive Vice President from 1995 to 2002. He has served the Company in other capacities since 1983. Karl G. Glassman was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2006 and has served as Executive Vice President of the Company since 2002. He served as President of the Residential Furnishings Segment from 1999 to 2006, as Senior Vice President of the Company from 1999 to 2002 and as President of Bedding Components from 1996 to 1998. He has served the Company in other capacities since 1982. Jack D. Crusa has served the Company as Senior Vice President since 1999 and President of Specialized Products since 2003. He previously served as President of the Industrial Materials Segment from 1999 through 2004, as President of the Automotive Group from 1996 through 1999 and in various other capacities since 1986. Joseph D. Downes, Jr. was appointed Senior Vice President of the Company in 2005 and President of the Industrial Materials Segment in 2004. He previously served the Company as President of the Wire Group from 1999 to 2004 and in various other capacities since 1976. Matthew C. Flanigan has served the Company as Senior Vice President since 2005 and as Chief Financial Officer since 2003. Mr. Flanigan previously served the Company as Vice President from 2003 to 2005, as Vice President and President of the Office Furniture Components Group from 1999 to 2003 and as Staff Vice President of Operations from 1997 to 1999. 26 Table of Contents PART I Paul R. Hauser became Senior Vice President of the Company in 2005 and President of the Residential Furnishings Segment in 2006. He previously served as Vice President of the Company and President of the Bedding Group from 1999 to 2006. He served in various capacities in the Companys Bedding Group since 1980. Ernest C. Jett has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel since 2005. He previously served as Corporate Secretary from 1995 through 2009. He was appointed General Counsel in 1997 and Vice President and Secretary in 1995. He previously served the Company as Assistant General Counsel from 1979 to 1995 and as Managing Director of the Legal Department from 1991 to 1997. Dennis S. Park became Senior Vice President and President of the Commercial Fixturing & Components Segment in 2006. In 2004, he was named President of the Home Furniture and Consumer Products Group and became Vice President of the Company and President of Home Furniture Components in 1996. He served the Company in various other capacities since 1977. David M. DeSonier was appointed Vice President Strategy & Investor Relations in 2007. He served as Vice President Investor Relations and Assistant Treasurer from 2002 to 2007. He joined the Company as Vice President Investor Relations in 2000. Prior to his employment with Leggett & Platt, he worked for Atlantic Richfield (a major integrated oil company) from 1980 to 2000 in strategic planning, investor relations, financial management and analysis, and technical positions. John G. Moore was appointed Secretary in January 2010, Chief Legal Officer in 2009 and Vice President Corporate Affairs & Human Resources in 2008. He previously served as Vice President Corporate Governance from 2006 to 2008, as Vice President and Associate General Counsel from 2001 to 2006, and as Managing Counsel and Assistant General Counsel from 1998 to 2001. He has served the Company in other capacities since 1994. William S. Weil has served the Company as Chief Accounting Officer since February 2004. He became Vice President in 2000 and has served the Company as Corporate Controller since 1991. He previously served the Company in various other accounting capacities since 1983. 27 Table of Contents PART II PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol LEG). The table below highlights quarterly and annual stock market information for the last two years. Price Range Volume ofShares Traded(in Millions) DividendDeclared High Low 2009 First Quarter $ 15.87 $ 10.03 143.7 $ .25 Second Quarter 16.66 12.58 113.9 .25 Third Quarter 19.98 13.88 96.8 .26 Fourth Quarter 21.44 18.06 104.1 .26 For the Year $ 21.44 $ 10.03 458.5 $ 1.02 2008 First Quarter $ 19.48 $ 14.59 142.4 $ .25 Second Quarter 19.56 14.12 146.0 .25 Third Quarter 24.60 14.22 224.4 .25 Fourth Quarter 22.95 12.03 182.9 .25 For the Year $ 24.60 $ 12.03 695.7 $ 1.00 Price and volume data reflect composite transactions; price range reflects intra day prices; data source is Bloomberg. Shareholders and Dividends As of February 15, 2010, we had approximately 11,000 shareholders of record. We are targeting a dividend payout ratio (annual dividends divided by net earnings) of 50 60%, though it has been and will likely be higher for the near term. See the discussion of the Companys targeted dividend payout under Pay Dividends in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 48. 28 Table of Contents PART II Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities The table below is a listing of our repurchases of the Companys common stock during the fourth quarter of 2009. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased(1) AveragePricePaid perShare Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly AnnouncedPlans or Programs(2) MaximumNumber of Sharesthat May Yet BePurchased Underthe Plans orPrograms(2) October 1 31, 2009 858,884 $ 20.12 848,579 3,283,394 November 1 30, 2009 3,014,362 $ 19.75 3,002,724 280,670 December 1 31, 2009 290,111 $ 19.96 218,533 62,137 Total 4,163,357 $ 19.84 4,069,836 (1) This number includes 93,521 shares which were not repurchased as part of a publicly announced plan or program, all of which were shares surrendered in transactions permitted under the Companys benefit plans. (2) On August 4, 2004, the Board authorized management to repurchase up to 10 million shares each calendar year beginning January 1, 2005. This standing authorization was first reported in the quarterly report on Form 10 Q for the period ended June 30, 2004, filed August 5, 2004, and will remain in force until repealed by the Board of Directors. Effective on January 1, 2010, the Company was authorized by the Board of Directors to repurchase up to 10 million shares in 2010. Sale of Unregistered Shares of Common Stock The Company issued 7,000 shares of common stock for $127,960 (at fair market value) to David S. Haffner, President and Chief Executive Officer as set out below. Name Date ofIssuance Number ofShares Priceper Share AdministrativeFee TotalPurchasePrice David S. Haffner 01/29/10 7,000 $ 18.26 $ 140 $ 127,960 The shares were exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, in that the transaction did not involve a public offering. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 6. Selected Financial Data. (Unaudited) 2009 20081, 3 20072, 3 20063 20053 (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Summary of Operations Net Sales from Continuing Operations $ 3,055 $ 4,076 $ 4,250 $ 4,267 $ 4,197 Earnings from Continuing Operations 121 128 65 240 219 (Earnings) Loss attributable to Noncontrolling Interest, net of tax (3 ) (5 ) (6 ) (4 ) (3 ) Earnings (loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax (6 ) (19 ) (70 ) 64 35 Net Earnings (Loss) 112 104 (11 ) 300 251 Earnings per share from Continuing Operations Basic .74 .73 .33 1.26 1.12 Diluted .74 .73 .33 1.26 1.12 Earnings (Loss) per share from Discontinued Operations Basic (.04 ) (.11 ) (.39 ) .35 .18 Diluted (.04 ) (.11 ) (.39 ) .35 .18 Net Earnings (Loss) per share Basic .70 .62 (.06 ) 1.61 1.30 Diluted .70 .62 (.06 ) 1.61 1.30 Cash Dividends declared per share 1.02 1.00 .78 .67 .63 Summary of Financial Position Total Assets $ 3,061 $ 3,162 $ 4,072 $ 4,265 $ 4,072 Long term Debt, including capital leases $ 789 $ 851 $ 1,001 $ 1,060 $ 922 1 As discussed in Notes C and D beginning on pages 85 and 89 respectively, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring related charges totaling $84 million in 2008. Of these charges, approximately $33 million were associated with continuing operations and $51 million related to discontinued operations. 2 As discussed in Notes C and D beginning on pages 85 and 89 respectively, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring related charges totaling $305 million in 2007. Of these charges, approximately $159 million were associated with continuing operations and $146 million related to discontinued operations. 3 As discussed in Note A on page 82, the amounts for 2005 through 2008 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the reclassification of noncontrolling interests from Other expense (income), net to (Earnings) attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 30 Table of Contents PART II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2009 HIGHLIGHTS As we entered 2009, we were facing some of the most challenging market conditions that weve experienced in decades and we recognized that there was little we could do to influence that reality. Therefore, our focus remained on several key activities that we could control, including aggressive cost containment, headcount reduction, facility consolidation, maintaining strict discipline on pricing, and optimizing working capital levels. As a result of our efforts in these areas, we exited 2009 with significantly improved EBIT margins (despite much lower sales), and for the year, we generated the second highest level of operating cash flow in our history. Our global markets stabilized in 2009, albeit at very low demand levels. For the full year, sales decreased 25% due primarily to weak market demand, but also to a combination of steel related price deflation and our decision to exit specific customer programs with unacceptable profit margins. We strive to achieve TSR in the top one third of the S&P 500 over the long term, which we believe will require average TSR of 12 15% per year. For the period beginning January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009, our 32% TSR ranks within the top 4% of the S&P 500. Reflecting confidence in our strategic progress, margin improvement, strong cash generation, and the stability we believe has developed in our markets, in August 2009, we increased our quarterly dividend modestly to $.26 per share. We also utilized essentially all the Boards authorization enabling us to repurchase 10 million shares of our stock in 2009, with the majority of the purchases occurring during the last half of the year. Our financial profile remains strong. We ended 2009 with net debt to net capital well below our long term targeted range, no significant fixed term debt maturing until 2013, and nearly $500 million available under our existing commercial paper program and revolver facility. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. 31 Table of Contents PART II INTRODUCTION What We Do Leggett & Platt is a diversified manufacturer, and member of the S&P 500 index, that conceives, designs, and produces a wide range of engineered components and products found in most homes, offices, and automobiles, and many retail stores. We make components that are often hidden within, but integral to, our customers products. We are North Americas leading independent manufacturer of: components for residential furniture and bedding, carpet underlay, components for office furniture, drawn steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and bedding industry machinery. Our Segments Our continuing operations are composed of 19 business units in four segments, with approximately 19,000 employees, and more than 140 production facilities located in 18 countries around the world. Our segments are described below. Residential Furnishings This segment supplies a variety of components mainly used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. We also sell carpet cushion, adjustable beds, bed frames, ornamental beds, and geo components. Commercial Fixturing & Components Operations in this segment manufacture and sell store fixtures and point of purchase displays used in retail stores. We also produce chair controls, bases, and other components for office furniture manufacturers. 32 Table of Contents PART II Industrial Materials These operations primarily supply steel rod, drawn steel wire, steel billets, and welded steel tubing to other Leggett operations and to external customers. Our wire and tubing is used to make bedding, furniture, automotive seats, wire retail fixtures, mechanical springs, and many other end products. Specialized Products From this segment we supply lumbar systems and wire components used by automotive seating manufacturers. We manufacture and install the racks, shelving and cabinets used to outfit fleets of service vans. We also produce machinery, both for ourselves and for others, including bedding manufacturers. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures During the past two years, we have divested six businesses. In 2008, we sold our Aluminum Products segment and four smaller business units (Wood Products, Fibers, Plastics, and the dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products). In 2009, we sold the Coated Fabrics business unit. We received after tax cash proceeds of $420 million for these six businesses, exceeding our original estimate of approximately $400 million. One additional business unit (Storage Products) is also targeted for divestiture. Results of operations for all of these businesses are classified as discontinued operations in our financial statements. For the remaining divestiture, we expect to recover the carrying value of the net assets held for sale. Net assets classified as held for sale totaled $40 million at December 31, 2009 (this includes $22 million not associated with the Storage Products business). Although recent market conditions have delayed the timing of the final disposition, we are fully committed to selling this business. Strategic Direction In late 2007, we outlined significant changes to the Companys strategy. We adopted a new primary financial metric (Total Shareholder Return), adopted role based portfolio management, implemented more rigorous strategic planning, and changed the priorities for use of cash. Our goals, in sequential order, were to i) divest low performing businesses, ii) return more cash to investors, iii) improve margins and returns, and iv) begin to carefully and conservatively grow the company at 4 5% of annual revenue. We have made significant progress over the past two years. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is the key financial measure that we use to monitor performance. TSR is driven by the change in our share price and the dividends we pay [TSR (Change in Stock Price + Dividends) / Beginning Stock Price]. We focus on four key sources of TSR: revenue growth, margin expansion, dividends, and share repurchases. Historically, our primary objective was profitable growth. Going forward, we intend to generate higher TSR through a balanced approach that employs all four sources of TSR. In 2008, dividends and stock buybacks largely drove our TSR; during 2009, we benefited significantly from margin improvement; and within a few years we expect that modest 33 Table of Contents PART II annual sales growth will also contribute to TSR. Beginning in 2008, we introduced TSR based incentives for senior executives and modified business unit bonuses to give more importance to achieving higher returns on the assets under their direct control. For the two year period ended December 31, 2009, our TSR performance places us within the top 4% of the S&P 500 companies. We narrowed our focus and eliminated (during 2008 and 2009) approximately 15% of our portfolio through the divestiture of the Aluminum Products segment and five additional business units (one divestiture remains). We also narrowed the scope of the Store Fixtures unit to focus primarily on the metals part of the fixtures industry, in alignment with Leggetts core competency of producing steel and steel related products. These activities were largely complete by the end of 2008, and resulted in charges that impacted our operating results (primarily in 2007 and 2008). Those charges are discussed on page 37 under the section titled Asset Impairments and Restructuring related Charges. We have implemented a more rigorous strategic planning process to assess our business units and help guide future decisions regarding business unit roles, capital allocation priorities, and new areas in which to grow. We review the portfolio classification of each unit on an annual basis to determine its appropriate role (Grow, Core, Fix, or Divest). This review includes criteria such as competitive position, market attractiveness, business unit size, and fit within our overall objectives, as well as financial indicators such as EBITDA growth, operating cash flows, and return on assets. To remain in the portfolio, business units are expected to consistently generate after tax returns in excess of our cost of capital. Business units that fail to consistently attain minimum return goals will be moved to the Fix or Divest categories. The majority of our business units are categorized as Core. A much smaller percentage are categorized as Grow; consequently, we recognize as a strategic imperative the need to expand the Grow category by improving i) our success rate at developing innovative new products and ii) our abilities to identify new growth platforms. A few small business units are considered Fix, and must improve their performance within a reasonable time frame (with some latitude given them due to the weak economy). Finally, a few small business units (and portions of business units) are considered non strategic, and will likely be divested as the M&A market recovers and allows for reasonable sales prices. The strategic changes have increased available cash. We expect to continue returning much of this cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with no single one representing over 6% of our sales. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture and bedding, a variety of other manufacturers, and many major retailers. 34 Table of Contents PART II Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are market demand, raw material cost trends, and competition. Market Demand Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Demand weakness in the majority of our markets during 2009 led to lower unit orders, utilization levels, sales and earnings. Several factors, including weak global economies, a depressed housing market, and low consumer confidence contributed to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. Short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into future demand trends; however, we currently expect demand to stabilize at these lower levels. Given our balance sheet strength, operating cash flow and access to credit, we expect to be able to endure an extended downturn in market demand with no material impact to our financial position or liquidity. Activities completed over the past few years (including the divestiture of businesses under our strategic plan, closure of certain underperforming and underutilized facilities, elimination of sales with unacceptable margins, and other cost reduction initiatives) improved our cost position in advance of the late 2008 economic contraction, and we continued to tightly constrain spending in 2009. We face decisions about further facility consolidation but have chosen to retain excess capacity because we believe that eventually market demand will improve. With our currently low utilization levels, we should be able to readily accommodate that demand improvement when it occurs. Raw Material Costs In many of our businesses, we enjoy a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that many of our competitors generally do not have. Still, our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. Purchasing arrangements vary across the company. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly, our raw material costs generally move with the market. In certain of our businesses, we have longer term purchase contracts with pricing terms that provide stability under reasonable market conditions. However, when commodities experience extreme inflation, vendors do not always honor those contracts. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Conversely, when costs decrease significantly, we generally pass those lower costs through to our customers. The timing of our price increases or decreases is a critical factor; we typically experience a lag in recovering higher costs, so we also expect to realize a lag as costs decline. 35 Table of Contents PART II Steel is our principal raw material and at various times in past years we have experienced extreme cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers via selling price adjustments. Steel costs increased significantly in 2008 and we implemented price increases to recover these higher costs. Market prices for steel began to decrease in late 2008, but with the precipitous drop in demand late in the year and our inability to cancel or return higher priced earlier purchases, we entered 2009 with high cost steel in inventory. As steel costs decreased in 2009, we implemented selective price reductions; however at the lower commodity cost levels, we enhanced our margins. As a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). The increase in scrap costs in late 2009 and early 2010 has resulted in currently lower metal margins in the steel market and in our rod producing operation. While pricing trends in the steel market are difficult to predict, we expect the lower metal margins to continue in 2010. Our other raw materials include woven and non woven fabrics, foam scrap, and chemicals. We have experienced changes in the cost of these materials in recent years, and typically pass them through to our customers. When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We experienced this de contenting effect in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments in recent years. As our customers changed the quantity and mix of components in their finished goods to address steel and chemical inflation, our profit margins were negatively impacted. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of mattress innersprings and boxsprings) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and in certain instances, provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Competition Many of our markets are highly competitive with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. We believe we gain competitive advantage in our global markets through low cost operations, significant internal production of key raw materials, manufacturing expertise and product innovation, higher quality products, extensive customer service capabilities, and financial strength. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering product quality, innovation, and customer service. We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. We currently operate 10 facilities in China. In recent years we experienced increased competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. We reacted to this competition by selectively adjusting prices, 36 Table of Contents PART II and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. The increased price competition for bedding components was partially due to lower wire costs in China. Certain foreign manufacturers also benefit from more lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. In late 2007, we filed an antidumping suit related to innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam. We saw a distinct decline in unfair imports during 2008 after the antidumping investigations began. As a result, we regained market share and performance in our Bedding group improved. The investigations were brought to a favorable conclusion in early 2009. The current antidumping duty rates on innersprings from these countries are significant, ranging from 116% to 234%, and should remain in effect for at least another four years. Imported innersprings from these countries are now supposed to be sold at fair prices, however the duties on certain innersprings are being evaded by various means including shipping the goods through a third country and misclassifying the actual country of origin. Leggett, along with several U.S. manufacturers of steel wire products with active antidumping and antidumping/countervailing duty orders, formed a coalition and are working with members of Congress, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection to seek stronger enforcement of existing antidumping and or countervailing duty orders. Asset Impairments and Restructuring related Charges Net impairment and restructuring related charges (for both continuing and discontinued operations) totaled $405 million over the last three years ($16 million in 2009, $84 million in 2008, and $305 million in 2007). The majority of these charges, or $344 million, occurred as a result of the 2007 Strategic Plan announced in late 2007 ($154 million in continuing operations and $190 million in discontinued operations); we believe this activity to be substantially complete. For further information about asset impairments and restructuring, see Notes C and D to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 85 and 89. For information regarding the methodology and assumptions we use for impairment testing, refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates on page 55, and also Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 85. 37 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2009 vs. 2008 During 2009, sales from continuing operations decreased 25%, reflecting a combination of weak market demand, steel related price deflation, and our decision to exit some specific sales with unacceptable margins. In the majority of our global markets, demand stabilized at low levels in early 2009. Despite the significant sales decline, full year earnings from continuing operations decreased only modestly, from $128 million in 2008 to $121 million in 2009. Cost structure improvements and pricing discipline offset nearly all the impact from lower sales. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. To comply with FASB guidance for presentation of noncontrolling interest (discussed on page 82), earnings for 2008 have been retrospectively adjusted to include the portion of earnings from our joint ventures that are attributable to the minority investors. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2009, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 4,076 Acquisition sales growth 1 % Small divestitures (36 ) (0.9 )% Internal sales decline: Approximate deflation (90 ) (2.2 )% Approximate exited volume (175 ) (4.3 )% Approximate unit volume decline (721 ) (17.7 )% Internal sales decline (986 ) (24.2 )% Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 3,055 (25.1 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 128 Lower restructuring related charges 5 Lower asset impairments 8 Bad debt expense associated with a customer bankruptcy (6 ) Divestiture note write down (7 ) Lower net interest expense 5 Unusual tax items (6 ) Other factors, including lower unit volume offset by cost savings and pricing discipline (6 ) Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 121 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2008 $ 0.73 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2009 $ 0.74 38 Table of Contents PART II Sales from continuing operations decreased 25% versus 2008, reflecting weak market demand, inflation related price decreases, and our decision to exit specific customer programs with unacceptable profit margins (the largest portion in our Store Fixtures business). Full year earnings from continuing operations also decreased in 2009. The earnings impact from lower unit volume was largely offset by cost reduction initiatives and pricing discipline. Other factors impacting the year over year earnings comparison are presented in the table above. The divestiture note write down (identified in the table) occurred when we learned in 2009 that the aluminum operations divested in July 2008 needed a capital infusion from the buyer due to deterioration in business conditions. This led to a reduction in the value of the note we accepted in 2008 as partial payment for the divesture. Leggett has accepted a more subordinate position in the capital structure of the divested operations. LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. We experienced a large swing in the LIFO impact during the past two years. In 2008, significant steel cost inflation along with moderately higher inventory levels resulted in LIFO expense from continuing operations of $62 million. In 2009, steel cost decreases and lower inventory levels resulted in a LIFO benefit from continuing operations of $67 million. Segment level earnings in 2008 generally benefited under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs, but in the first half of 2009, were significantly burdened as we consumed higher cost steel (both in inventory and committed under purchase agreements) while selling prices decreased. The LIFO impact recognized at the corporate level is generally offset each year by FIFO impacts at the segment level; however, we experienced significant variability in our quarterly earnings in 2009 as these items were recognized. Earnings in the first two quarters of 2009 were significantly impacted as we consumed the majority of the higher cost steel but recognized only about half of the offsetting LIFO benefit (consistent with our historical practice of recording annual LIFO impacts evenly throughout the year). The remainder of the LIFO benefit was recognized in the last half of 2009, a period during which we experienced only minimal impact from higher cost steel. For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 78. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense decreased $8 million versus 2008, primarily the result of lower commercial paper borrowings and lower interest rates in 2009. The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate for 2009 was higher, at 39.0%, versus 33.8% in 2008. This increase is primarily due to i) tax adjustments resulting from 39 Table of Contents PART II Mexican tax law changes, and ii) the lower level of earnings and mix among tax jurisdictions. In 2009, tax law changes in Mexico caused us to re evaluate our deferred tax assets and liabilities in that jurisdiction. As a result of our analysis, we recorded a $6 million tax charge to earnings related to current and prior year losses that may expire before they can be utilized to reduce taxable earnings. In 2008, a tax benefit associated with the write off of an acquired companys stock was offset by increased reserves for uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances against deferred tax assets for certain foreign entities. Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2009 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 93. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 1,693 $ 90 5.3 % Year ended December 31, 2008 2,120 151 7.1 % Decrease $ (427 ) $ (61 ) % decrease (20 )% (40 )% Internal sales decrease (19 )% Small divestitures (1 )% Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2009, reflecting weak market demand and steel related price deflation. Demand in our residential markets was weak throughout 2009 as consumers world wide continued to defer purchases of large ticket items (such as mattress sets and upholstered furniture) that contain our products. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2008, with the earnings impact from significantly lower unit volumes partially offset by cost reductions, pricing discipline, elimination of poorly performing operations, and the absence of 2008s restructuring related and other costs ($18 million). Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 491 $ 8 1.6 % Year ended December 31, 2008 711 14 2.0 % Decrease $ (220 ) $ (6 ) % decrease (31 )% (43 )% Internal sales decrease (31 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 40 Table of Contents PART II Sales decreased in 2009 due to our decision in the Store Fixtures business to exit specific customer programs with unacceptable margins, reduced capital spending by retailers, and market softness in Office Furniture Components. EBIT and EBIT margins also decreased versus the prior year, as the impact from lower sales more than offset benefits from cost reductions, prior elimination of poorly performing facilities, and other operating improvements, as well as the absence of 2008s restructuring related costs ($11 million). Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 647 $ 60 9.3 % Year ended December 31, 2008 966 96 9.9 % Decrease $ (319 ) $ (36 ) % decrease (33 )% (38 )% Internal sales decrease (33 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 2009 sales decreased, reflecting weak demand in many of our markets (including bedding, furniture, and automotive) and steel related price deflation. EBIT and EBIT margins also decreased versus 2008, as lower sales more than offset cost reductions. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 501 $ 17 3.4 % Year ended December 31, 2008 682 45 6.6 % Decrease $ (181 ) $ (28 ) % decrease (27 )% (62 )% Internal sales decrease (27 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2009, reflecting weak global demand in our markets. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the prior year, as the impact from lower sales more than offset benefits from cost reduction initiatives and other operating improvements, as well as the absence of 2008s restructuring related costs ($5 million). Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $13 million, from a loss of $19 million in 2008 to a loss of $6 million in 2009. This earnings increase was primarily due to lower asset impairments and restructuring related charges, partially offset by $3 million (net of tax) of environmental charges related to an aluminum property. 41 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2008 vs. 2007 During 2008, sales from continuing operations decreased 4%. We reported full year net earnings from continuing operations of $128 million, which included $21 million of restructuring related charges, impairments, and other items. Our 2008 earnings reflected soft market demand which led to lower unit volume in many of our businesses. In the majority of our markets, demand was soft throughout the year, but weakened appreciably late in the third quarter as consumers further reduced their spending in response to the financial market distress and general U.S. and global economic conditions. Market share gains in certain businesses offset some of the impact from weak demand. During the year, we also experienced significant inflation in steel costs, and we successfully implemented price increases to recover the majority of these higher costs. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. To comply with FASB guidance for presentation of noncontrolling interest (discussed on page 82), earnings have been retrospectively adjusted to include the portion of earnings from our joint ventures that are attributable to the minority investors. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2008, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 4,250 Acquisition sales growth 35 0.8 % Small divestitures (41 ) (0.9 )% Internal sales decline: Approximate inflation 285 6.7 % Approximate unit volume decline (453 ) (10.7 )% Internal sales decline (168 ) (4.0 )% Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 4,076 (4.1 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 65 Goodwill impairment in Fixture & Display 120 Restructuring related charges (4 ) Asset impairment (4 ) Lower net interest expense 6 Tax items 12 Other factors including lower unit volume and production (67 ) Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 128 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2007 $ 0.33 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2008 $ 0.73 42 Table of Contents PART II Sales from continuing operations decreased 4% versus 2007, primarily reflecting weak market demand and our decision to exit specific sales volume with unacceptable profit margins (primarily in our Store Fixtures business). These declines were partially offset by inflation related price increases and market share gains. Our U.S. bedding components business gained market share in 2008 as a result of: i) bedding manufacturers shifting innerspring purchases from international to domestic sources; ii) the deverticalization of a strong regional bedding manufacturer (they now buy components from us that they previously produced for themselves); and, iii) increased demand for innerspring mattresses, rather than premium priced, non innerspring products. We experienced significant inflation in steel costs during 2008, and in response, we implemented price increases to recover the higher costs. The magnitude of our selling price increases varied by product line depending on steel content, but in our major Residential and Industrial businesses, prices increased substantially. By late 2008, steel costs began to decrease. Full year earnings from continuing operations were higher than in 2007, primarily due to: Non recurrence of 2007 goodwill impairment charges related to our Fixture & Display group ($120 million) Non recurrence of 2007 tax items ($12 million) adjustments to valuation allowances related to potential foreign tax benefits Lower interest expense Several factors negatively impacted earnings. The most significant were: Unit volume declines (down roughly 10% for the year) Higher restructuring related charges and asset impairments ($19 million) Reduced production levels with the significant pull back in demand late in the year, we cut production (even below depressed demand levels) and reduced inventories LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. Significant steel cost increases during the year, along with moderately higher levels of these steel related inventories, resulted in LIFO expense from continuing operations of $62 million in 2008 (versus a $1 million benefit in 2007). Segment level earnings in 2008 generally benefited under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs. For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 78. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense decreased $9 million versus 2007, primarily the result of debt maturities paid in 2007 and 2008, as well as lower commercial paper borrowings. 43 Table of Contents PART II The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate for 2008 was also lower, at 33.8% versus 55.9% in 2007. The 2007 rate was negatively impacted by goodwill impairment charges totaling $143 million, of which $95 million were non deductible. This caused the 2007 rate as a percent of pre tax income to be much higher than normal. In 2008, a tax benefit associated with the write off of an acquired companys stock was offset by increased reserves for uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances against deferred tax assets for certain foreign entities. In the third quarter of 2008, we recorded a $4 million valuation allowance against certain foreign tax assets. The valuation allowance related to our Canadian automotive operations that produce lumbar supports. In late 2008, the automotive industry was in a dramatic state of decline, which reduced the demand for our components. In addition to demand factors, these operations were also negatively impacted by the strength in recent years of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar (our Canadian automotive operations sell in U.S. dollars while incurring labor and overhead costs in Canadian dollars, thereby reducing margins). As a result, we believed it was more likely than not that we would not realize the benefit of deferred tax assets associated with these operations. We provide a discussion regarding the recoverability of the Automotive units long lived assets under Critical Accounting Policies on page 56. Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2008 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 94. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 2,120 $ 151 7.1 % Year ended December 31, 2007 2,254 174 7.7 % Decrease $ (134 ) $ (23 ) % decrease (6 )% (13 )% Internal sales decrease (5 )% Small divestitures (1 )% Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2008, reflecting weak market demand. This decrease was partially offset by inflation related price increases and market share gains in our U.S. bedding business (discussed under Consolidated Results above). Demand in our U.S. residential markets was weak throughout 2008, but softened further in late September reflecting reduced spending by consumers on large ticket items that contain our products. International markets, which were relatively stronger earlier in the year, also experienced much softer demand in the latter part of the year as a result of deteriorating global economic conditions. 44 Table of Contents PART II EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2007 due to lower sales and higher asset impairments and restructuring related costs (of $14 million), partially offset by a gain from the sale of a business (of $8 million) and operating improvements in certain locations. Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 711 $ 14 2.0 % Year ended December 31, 2007 837 (104 ) (12.4 )% (Decrease) increase $ (126 ) $ 118 % (decrease) increase (15 )% 113 % Internal sales decrease (15 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2008 due to several factors, including our decision in the Store Fixtures business to exit specific sales volume with unacceptable margins, reduced capital spending by retailers, and lower demand for office furniture components. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus the prior year, primarily due to the non recurrence of 2007s goodwill impairment charge (of $143 million), partially offset by lower sales. Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 966 $ 96 9.9 % Year ended December 31, 2007 776 55 7.1 % Increase $ 190 $ 41 % increase 24 % 75 % Internal sales increase 24 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 2008 sales increased significantly, primarily from the pass through of higher steel costs and increased sales of steel billets. Ongoing weak demand in many of our markets (including bedding, furniture, and automotive) offset a portion of the sales gain. EBIT and EBIT margins also increased versus 2007, primarily due to higher sales and operating improvements in certain locations. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 682 $ 45 6.6 % Year ended December 31, 2007 715 70 9.8 % Decrease $ (33 ) $ (25 ) % decrease (5 )% (36 )% Internal sales decrease (5 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 45 Table of Contents PART II Sales decreased in 2008, primarily reflecting weak demand that continued throughout the year in our North American automotive business and the fleet portion of Commercial Vehicle Products. Our machinery and European and Asian automotive businesses posted full year sales growth despite demand softening late in the year. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the prior year, mainly due to lower sales, higher restructuring related costs (of $4 million), and higher steel costs with limited recovery. Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $52 million, from a loss of $71 million in 2007 to a loss of $19 million in 2008. This earnings increase was primarily due to lower asset impairments and restructuring related charges (of $90 million), partially offset by the non recurrence of a 2007 tax benefit (of $30 million) associated with a difference in book and tax basis of stock held in the Aluminum segment as a result of that business reaching held for sale status. 46 Table of Contents PART II LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details, reflecting both continuing and discontinued operations, about our: Uses of cash Cash from operations Debt position and total capitalization We use cash for the following: Finance capital requirements (e.g. productivity, growth and acquisitions) Pay dividends Repurchase our stock Our operations provide much of the cash we require, and debt may also be used to fund a portion of our needs. In 2008, cash proceeds from completed divestitures were an additional significant source of funds. In 2009, we generated our second highest level of cash from operations in our history, at $565 million. With less benefit from working capital reductions expected in 2010, operating cash should approximate $300 million, readily exceeding our annual requirement for capital expenditures and dividends. We ended 2009 with net debt to net capital of 23.7%, below our long term target and year end 2008 levels. Our long term target is to have net debt as a percent of net capital in the 30% 40% range. Page 53 presents a table of the calculation of net debt as a percent of net capital at the end of the past two years. Uses of Cash Finance Capital Requirements Improving returns of the existing asset base will continue to be a key focus. However, cash is available to fund selective growth, both internally (through capital expenditures) and externally (through acquisitions). 47 Table of Contents PART II Capital expenditures include investments we make to modernize, maintain, and expand manufacturing capacity. With our move to role based portfolio management, we are more restrictive in funding capital projects. Capital spending in 2010 is expected to be less than $90 million. Growth capital, which had historically been available to all our businesses, is now predominantly earmarked for our Grow business units. Operations designated as Core business units receive capital primarily for productivity enhancements, but expansion capital is limited. We have also set a higher bar for acquisitions, and plan to pursue disciplined growth through fewer, but more strategic, opportunities. We will seek acquisitions within our growth businesses, and will also look for longer term opportunities to enter new, higher growth markets that meet strict criteria. As a result of the new acquisition criteria, no significant acquisitions were completed in 2008 or 2009. In 2007, we acquired three businesses that were expected to add about $100 million to annual revenue ($20 million in Commercial Fixturing & Components, $50 million in Industrial Materials, and $30 million in Specialized Products). These businesses: established a foothold in Asian production of office chair controls manufactured coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers, and presented Leggett with expanded technologies and cross segment selling opportunities broadened our suite of products for commercial vehicle interiors In addition to the initial cash outlays for acquisitions (shown in the accompanying chart), we also assumed debt of $24 million in 2007. We provide additional details about acquisitions in Note R to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 114. Pay Dividends With continued improvement in margins and returns, a decrease in capital spending and acquisitions, and the completion of most of the divestitures, we expect (and have recently had) more available cash to return to shareholders. Higher annual dividends are one means by which that will occur. In late 2007, we raised our quarterly dividend by 39%, 48 Table of Contents PART II to $.25 per share. In 2009 we modestly increased the quarterly dividend further, to $.26 per share, and extended to 38 years our record of consecutive annual dividend increases, at an average compound growth rate of 14%. Our targeted dividend payout is approximately 50 60% of net earnings, but has been higher recently and will likely remain above targeted levels in the near term. Maintaining and increasing the dividend remains a high priority. We expect to spend approximately $155 million on dividends in 2010 (slightly less than in 2009 because of share repurchases). Cash from operations has been, and is expected to continue to be, sufficient to readily fund both capital expenditures and dividends. Repurchase Stock Share repurchases are the other means by which we return cash to shareholders. During the past three years, we repurchased a total of 38 million shares of our stock and reduced outstanding shares by about 16%. In 2009, we repurchased approximately 6% of shares outstanding at an average per share price of $18.21. We expect to repurchase additional shares in 2010, with the amount of purchases dependent on factors such as general economic conditions, level of demand in our end markets, and the availability of excess cash. Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have been authorized by the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares in 2010. 49 Table of Contents PART II Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Earnings and changes in working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. In 2009, cash from operations increased $129 million versus 2008 primarily as a result of improving working capital trends. Accounts receivable While the dollar amount of accounts receivable has decreased primarily due to weak sales, our days of sales outstanding has increased as customers have slowed payments during the continued economic downturn. We continue to focus on collection efforts to ensure customer accounts are paid on time. Inventory Specific actions to reduce raw material purchases and production levels, along with price deflation, have resulted in a lower dollar amount of inventory. However, the number of days of inventory on hand increased versus the prior year due to weak sales. Accounts Payable We continue efforts to optimize payment terms with our vendors and as a result have seen an increase in both dollars of accounts payable and number of days of payables outstanding. Cash from operations in 2008, though strong, was $178 million lower than in 2007 primarily due to a smaller year over year decrease in working capital. Extremely weak market demand in the latter part of 2008 negatively impacted earnings. Working capital decreased in 2008 as a result of lower inventory and accounts receivable levels. Fourth quarter production cuts led to lower inventory levels (versus the prior year). Accounts receivable also declined primarily due to extremely weak sales late in the year. 50 Table of Contents PART II The following table presents key working capital measures at the end of the past two years. Amount (in millions) # Days Outstanding 2009 2008 Change 2009 2008 Change Accounts Receivable, net (1) $ 469 $ 550 ($81 ) 56 49 7 Inventory, net (2) $ 409 $ 495 ($86 ) 62 53 9 Accounts Payable (3) $ 199 $ 175 $24 30 19 11 (1) The accounts receivable ratio represents the days of sales outstanding calculated as: ending net accounts receivable &divide; (net sales &divide; number of days in the year). (2) The inventory ratio represents days of inventory on hand calculated as: ending net inventory &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). (3) The accounts payable ratio represents the days of payables outstanding calculated as: ending accounts payable &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). Working capital levels vary by segment. The Commercial Fixturing & Components segment typically has relatively higher accounts receivable balances due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Fixture & Display group. This business group also generally requires higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of its products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. 51 Table of Contents PART II Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 764 $ 774 $ 796 Average interest rates (1) 4.6 % 4.7 % 4.9 % Average maturities in years (1) 5.6 6.4 6.8 Revolving credit/commercial paper 25 77 205 Total long term debt 789 851 1,001 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 161 116 124 Equity (2) 1,576 1,671 2,148 Total capitalization $ 2,526 $ 2,638 $ 3,273 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 491 $ 523 $ 395 Short term Total unused committed credit $ 491 $ 523 $ 395 Current maturities of long term debt $ 10 $ 22 $ 89 Cash and cash equivalents $ 260 $ 165 $ 205 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (3) 4.6 x 3.7 x 2.7 x (1) These calculations include current maturities, but exclude commercial paper to reflect the averages of outstanding debt with scheduled maturities. (2) Equity decreased $480 million in 2008, primarily reflecting net share repurchases of $234 million, dividends of $165 million, and currency impacts of $146 million. (3) Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, plus implied interest included in operating leases. Earnings consist principally of income from continuing operations before income taxes, plus fixed charges. The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2009 and 2008, calculated in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows a more meaningful comparison to periods during which cash fluctuates significantly. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. 52 Table of Contents PART II (Dollar amounts in millions) 2009 2008 Long term debt $ 789 $ 851 Current debt maturities 10 22 Cash and cash equivalents (260 ) (165 ) Net debt $ 539 $ 708 Total capitalization $ 2,526 $ 2,638 Current debt maturities 10 22 Cash and cash equivalents (260 ) (165 ) Net capitalization $ 2,276 $ 2,495 Long term debt to total capitalization 31.2 % 32.2 % Net debt to net capitalization 23.7 % 28.4 % Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) decreased $74 million in 2009. During the year, we reduced our commercial paper borrowings by $52 million and paid off $22 million of other long term debt that came due. We can raise cash by issuing up to $600 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $600 million revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of 14 lenders that terminates in 2012. Based on the information currently available to us, we believe that the participating banks continue to have the ability to meet their obligations under the agreement. At December 31, 2009, $25 million of commercial paper was outstanding under this program and is classified as long term debt. We also maintain an active shelf registration. With anticipated operating cash flows, the commercial paper program and the active shelf registration, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and fund future growth. Our commercial paper program continued to operate efficiently during the disruption of the global credit markets in late 2008; those markets stabilized during 2009. Changes in the credit markets and other events of the past year did not materially impact our weighted average effective borrowing rate for commercial paper. If a disruption in the credit market was to become so severe that we were unable to issue commercial paper, we have the contractual right to draw funds directly on our revolving credit agreement. In such event, the cost of borrowing under the revolving credit agreement could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowing. The revolving credit agreement provides for the ability to issue letters of credit up to an aggregate $250 million. Any utilization of these commitments for letters of credit reduces our commercial paper/loan capacity by a corresponding amount. At December 31, 2009, we had issued $84 million of letters of credit under these commitments. Accordingly, at year end, an additional $491 million was available to us under our commercial paper program ($600 million in total program $25 million of outstanding commercial paper $84 million of issued letters of credit). 53 Table of Contents PART II CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual cash obligations and commitments: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total LessThan 1Year 1 3Years 3 5Years MoreThan 5Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt * $ 795 $ 9 $ 27 $ 381 $ 378 Capitalized leases 4 1 2 1 Operating leases 110 33 42 19 16 Purchase obligations ** 255 255 Interest payments *** 196 35 71 54 36 Deferred income taxes 49 49 Other obligations (including pensions and reserves for tax contingencies) 125 10 17 8 90 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,534 $ 343 $ 159 $ 463 $ 569 * The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. Long term debt includes $25 million of outstanding commercial paper, which is generally due overnight. We have classified commercial paper as long term debt (due in 1 3 years) since the commercial paper program is supported by a $600 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. ** Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. *** Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2009 at rates in effect at the end of the year. These totals include interest on the $25 million of outstanding commercial paper discussed above. 54 Table of Contents PART II CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur. Critical accounting estimates are those that are: a) subject to uncertainty and change, and b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed below are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements. We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 78. Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Goodwill Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually as of June 30 and as triggering events occur. In the past three years, no impairments have been recorded as a result of the annual impairment reviews. As a result of the deterioration in the economic and financial climate in the fourth quarter 2008, an interim goodwill impairment analysis was performed confirming that estimated fair value exceeded carrying values for all reporting units. In the fourth quarter 2007, we performed an interim goodwill impairment review as a result of the November 2007 Strategic Plan, and recorded goodwill impairment charges related to the Fixture & Display reporting unit of $143 million. In order to assess goodwill for potential impairment, judgment is required to estimate the fair market value of each reporting unit (which is one level below reportable segments) using the combination of a discounted cash flow model and market approach using price to earnings ratios for comparable publicly traded companies with characteristics similar to the reporting unit. The cash flow model contains uncertainties related to the forecast of future results as many outside economic and competitive factors can influence future performance. Margins, sales levels, and discount rates are the most critical estimates in determining enterprise values using the cash flow model. Fair market values for three of the 10 reporting units exceeded book value by 10 20%. The goodwill associated with these reporting units is $373 million. These reporting units are dependent on the global automotive markets and the commercial and residential construction markets. We expect future operating results to improve for all of these reporting units. If actual performance does not improve and remains at current levels, future goodwill impairments could be possible. The remaining reporting units (including Fixture & Display) have fair market values that exceed carrying value by more than 20%, and have goodwill of $555 million. 55 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Goodwill (cont.) Additional goodwill impairments were recorded in 2007, 2008, and 2009 related to assets held for sale as discussed below. The market approach requires judgment to determine the appropriate price to earnings ratio. Ratios are derived from comparable publicly traded companies that operate in the same or similar industry as the reporting unit. Information regarding material assumptions used to determine if a goodwill impairment exists can be found in Note C on page 85. Assets Held for Sale Assets held for sale are carried at the lower of historical cost or net realizable value (fair market value less cost to sell). We review and update our estimates of net realizable value on a quarterly basis. As a result of the 2007 Strategic Plan, goodwill and other long lived asset impairments of $138 million related to businesses targeted for divestiture were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007 (in discontinued operations). Throughout 2008 and 2009, we recorded additional impairments of $32 million and $3 million, respectively (in discontinued operations), as updated estimates of fair value less costs to sell became more certain. Fair market value for assets held for sale contains uncertainties surrounding the expected proceeds from the ultimate sale of the business or asset. This value is usually determined using offers received for these businesses prior to sale, or earnings multiples in the current market. For individual assets (closed facilities, etc.) periodic appraisals are performed to determine fair market value. We could incur additional write downs in the future if our estimates of fair value less costs to sell prove inaccurate, or if further assets or businesses are targeted for divestiture. Other Long lived Assets Other long lived assets are tested for recoverability at year end and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairments of other long lived assets usually occur when major restructuring activities take place, or we decide to discontinue product lines completely. These impairments are very unpredictable, and are difficult to anticipate. Impairments were $3 million in 2009, $13 million in 2008, and $6 million in 2007. 56 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Other Long lived Assets (cont.) For other long lived assets we estimate fair value at the lowest level where cash flows can be measured (usually at a branch level). Our impairment assessments have uncertainties because they require estimates of future cash flows to determine if undiscounted cash flows are sufficient to recover carrying values of these assets. For assets where future cash flows are not expected to recover carrying value, fair value is estimated which requires an estimate of market value based upon asset appraisals for like assets. As a result of the circumstances that caused us to record a $4 million valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of a Canadian automotive facility in the fourth quarter 2008, we tested the carrying value of this entity for recoverability and concluded that no impairments were indicated. In 2009, we monitored cash flows generated by this entity and again concluded that cash flows are sufficient to recover the current carrying value of $51 million as of December 31, 2009. We believe that future restructuring and shut down activities should be equal to or less than those in 2009, however this could change if certain product lines or businesses do not meet return expectations. This could cause us to decide to exit a business which could trigger long lived asset impairment. Inventory Reserves In determining the value of inventories, we reduce the carrying value of inventories to reflect an estimate of net realizable value for obsolete and slow moving inventory. If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to have no value and are written down completely. If we have more than a one years supply of a product, we value that inventory at net realizable value (what we think we will recover). Our inventory reserve contains uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow moving (i.e. not selling very quickly). Changes in customer behavior and requirements can cause inventory to quickly become obsolete or slow moving. At December 31, 2009, we had recorded an inventory reserve of $42 million (approximately 9% of FIFO inventories) to account for obsolete inventories. Additions to inventory reserves have averaged $22 million in each of the past three years. Approximately two thirds of historical write downs relate to the Commercial Fixturing & Components and Specialized Products segments due to the custom nature of their products. 57 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Inventory Reserves (cont.) The calculation also uses an estimate of the ultimate recoverability of items identified as slow moving based upon historical experience (65% on average). We are implementing new inventory optimization processes that should reduce the impact of write downs in the future. We do not expect any significant changes in customer or industry trends that would increase the exposure to inventory obsolescence. Workers Compensation We are substantially self insured for costs related to workers compensation, which requires us to estimate the liability associated with this obligation. Our estimates of self insured reserves contain uncertainties regarding the potential amounts we might have to pay (since we are self insured). We consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $14 million annually for costs associated with workers compensation. Average year to year variation over the past five years has been approximately $3 million. At December 31, 2009, we had accrued $46 million to cover future self insurance liabilities. Internal safety statistics indicate improving safety trends in the last two years. Usually, safety statistics are leading indicators of exposure trends. As a result of headcount reductions and improved safety trends, we expect worker compensation costs to remain at current lower levels for the foreseeable future. Credit Losses For accounts and notes receivable, we estimate a bad debt reserve for the amount that will ultimately be uncollectible. When we become aware of a specific customers potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible. Our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate the amount uncollectible based upon an evaluation of several factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience. A significant change in the financial status of a large customer could impact our estimates. 58 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Credit Losses (cont.) Our customers are diverse and many are small to medium sized companies, with some being highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning. The average annual amount of customer related credit losses was $17 million (less than 1% of annual net sales) over the last three years. At December 31, 2009, our reserves for doubtful accounts not held for sale totaled $23 million (about 5% of our accounts and notes receivable of $435 million). Weak market demand has intensified pressure on highly leveraged customers in some of our industries. In each of 2008 and 2009, we experienced bad debt expense that was approximately $15 million higher than pre 2008 levels. We expect a return to more normal levels, however if weak market demand persists, other bankruptcies could be possible. We also recognized an $11 million loss in 2009 related to the Aluminum divestiture note. At December 31, 2009, we had $17 million of notes outstanding, primarily related to divested businesses, and have concluded that no reserve is required for these notes. Pension Accounting For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations. The pension liability calculation contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of future benefits paid, which also impacts current year pension expense. The discount rates used to calculate the pension liability and pension expense has remained consistent at approximately 6% for the last three years. A 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $.3 million and decrease the plans funded status by approximately $6 million. 59 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Pension Accounting (cont.) Determination of pension expense requires an estimate of expected return on pension assets based upon the mix of investments held (bonds and equities). Other assumptions include rates of compensation increases, withdrawal and mortality rates, and retirement ages. These estimates impact the pension expense or income we recognize and our reported benefit obligations. The expected return on assets decreased in 2009 to 6.9%, from a rate in 2008 of 7.9%, and 7.8% in 2007. The reduction in the rate was primarily driven by a change in asset allocation toward more conservative investments (ie. bonds). A 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.4 million, but have no effect on the plans funded status. Assuming a long term investment horizon, we do not expect a material change to the return on asset assumption. Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. Our tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures related to our various filing positions. Our effective tax rate is also impacted by changes in tax laws, the current mix of earnings by taxing jurisdiction, and the results of current tax audits and assessments. Potential changes in tax laws under the new Administration could impact assumptions related to the non repatriation of certain foreign earnings. If all non repatriated earnings were taxed, we would incur additional taxes of approximately $35 million. The recovery of net operating losses (NOLs) has been closely evaluated for the likelihood of recovery based upon factors such as the age of losses, viable tax planning strategies, and future taxable earnings expectations. We believe that appropriate valuation allowances have been recorded as necessary. However, if earnings expectations or other assumptions change such that additional valuation allowances are required, we could incur additional tax expense. 60 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Income Taxes (cont.) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $28 million and $31 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount, source, and timing of future taxable income. Valuation allowances are established against future potential tax benefits to reflect the amounts we believe have no more than a 50% probability of being realized. In addition, assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of possible repatriation. Tax audits by various taxing authorities are expected to increase as governments continue to look for ways to raise additional revenue. Based upon past experience, we do not expect any major changes to our tax liability as a result of this increased audit activity; however, we could incur additional tax expense if we have audit adjustments higher than recent historical experience. Contingencies We evaluate various legal, environmental, and other potential claims against us to determine if an accrual or disclosure of the contingency is appropriate. If it is probable that an ultimate loss will be incurred, we accrue a liability for the estimate of the ultimate loss. Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) contain uncertainties because they are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. The largest claim against us is the Gray v. Derderian case, which is discussed below. We have agreed to a settlement with the plaintiff group, and have insurance coverage in excess of the settlement amount of $18.2 million. The only contingencies remaining are court approval and ultimate payment by our insurance carrier. In the highly unlikely event that our insurance carrier goes bankrupt prior to payment, we believe there are sufficient reserves (statutorily required) to cover the $18.2 million settlement. We also have several environmental clean up activities related to current and closed facilities that mostly involve soil and groundwater contamination. Based upon facts available at this time, we believe reserves are adequate, however cost estimates could change as we determine more about the severity and cost of remediation. 61 Table of Contents PART II Contingencies Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. On July 22, 2004, we were named as one of approximately 80 defendants in several cases consolidated as Gray v. Derderian, Case No. 1:04 CV 312 L, U.S.D.C. R.I. This litigation resulted from a nightclub fire in West Warwick, Rhode Island involving multiple deaths and injuries. There are in excess of 550 plaintiffs in the litigation. Along with other foam manufacturing defendants, Leggett is alleged to have manufactured and sold bulk polyurethane foam to a foam fabricator in Rhode Island, who in turn, is alleged to have fabricated and sold foam sheets to the nightclub. The foam was among other materials alleged to have caught fire when pyrotechnics were ignited inside the nightclub. We believe we did not manufacture the foam subject to the lawsuit and that we have valid defenses to the claims. Nevertheless, with our consent, our primary insurance carrier reached a tentative settlement with counsel for all plaintiffs on April 29, 2008 and we executed the final settlement agreement on October 6, 2009. The settlement agreement is subject to various court approvals and the signature of all plaintiffs. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, we would pay a $2 million self insured retention. The remainder of the $18.2 million settlement would be paid by our insurance carrier. We do not believe the settlement or the outcome will have a material effect on Leggetts financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. We recorded $2 million of expense in 2008 and currently have a $16.2 million receivable from the insurance carrier and an $18.2 million liability related to this matter, that is included in current assets and current liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS We adopted new accounting guidance in 2009 as discussed in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 82. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has also issued accounting guidance effective for future periods (that we have not yet adopted), but we do not believe this new guidance will have a material impact on our future financial statements. 62 Table of Contents PART II Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) Interest Rates The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars. The fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $71.1 at December 31, 2009, and less than its carrying value by $107.1 at December 31, 2008. The increase in the fair market value of the Companys debt is primarily due to the decrease in credit spreads over risk free rates as compared to the prior year end. The fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a Bloomberg secondary market rate, as of December 31, 2009 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs under its medium term note program. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Scheduled Maturity Date Long term debt as of December 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter 2009 2008 Principal fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ 200.0 $ 180.0 $ 350.0 $ 730.0 $ 745.0 Average interest rate % % % 4.70 % 4.65 % 4.77 % 4.72 % 4.77 % Principal variable rate debt 8.5 0.5 0.5 21.5 31.0 31.5 Average interest rate 0.43 % 0.52 % 0.52 % % % 0.56 % 0.52 % 1.83 % Miscellaneous debt* 38.4 97.1 Total debt 799.4 873.6 Less: current maturities (10.1 ) (22.4 ) Total long term debt $ 789.3 $ 851.2 * Includes $25 and $77 of commercial paper in 2009 and 2008, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It is the Companys policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in Note S on page 115 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. 63 Table of Contents PART II Investment in Foreign Subsidiaries The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2009 2008 European Currencies $ 324.8 $ 287.4 Canadian Dollar 236.3 205.1 Chinese Renminbi 157.9 160.0 Mexican Peso 38.4 51.6 Other 63.2 44.5 Total $ 820.6 $ 748.6 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2009 HIGHLIGHTS As we entered 2009, we were facing some of the most challenging market conditions that weve experienced in decades and we recognized that there was little we could do to influence that reality. Therefore, our focus remained on several key activities that we could control, including aggressive cost containment, headcount reduction, facility consolidation, maintaining strict discipline on pricing, and optimizing working capital levels. As a result of our efforts in these areas, we exited 2009 with significantly improved EBIT margins (despite much lower sales), and for the year, we generated the second highest level of operating cash flow in our history. Our global markets stabilized in 2009, albeit at very low demand levels. For the full year, sales decreased 25% due primarily to weak market demand, but also to a combination of steel related price deflation and our decision to exit specific customer programs with unacceptable profit margins. We strive to achieve TSR in the top one third of the S&P 500 over the long term, which we believe will require average TSR of 12 15% per year. For the period beginning January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009, our 32% TSR ranks within the top 4% of the S&P 500. Reflecting confidence in our strategic progress, margin improvement, strong cash generation, and the stability we believe has developed in our markets, in August 2009, we increased our quarterly dividend modestly to $.26 per share. We also utilized essentially all the Boards authorization enabling us to repurchase 10 million shares of our stock in 2009, with the majority of the purchases occurring during the last half of the year. Our financial profile remains strong. We ended 2009 with net debt to net capital well below our long term targeted range, no significant fixed term debt maturing until 2013, and nearly $500 million available under our existing commercial paper program and revolver facility. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. 31 Table of Contents PART II INTRODUCTION What We Do Leggett & Platt is a diversified manufacturer, and member of the S&P 500 index, that conceives, designs, and produces a wide range of engineered components and products found in most homes, offices, and automobiles, and many retail stores. We make components that are often hidden within, but integral to, our customers products. We are North Americas leading independent manufacturer of: components for residential furniture and bedding, carpet underlay, components for office furniture, drawn steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and bedding industry machinery. Our Segments Our continuing operations are composed of 19 business units in four segments, with approximately 19,000 employees, and more than 140 production facilities located in 18 countries around the world. Our segments are described below. Residential Furnishings This segment supplies a variety of components mainly used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. We also sell carpet cushion, adjustable beds, bed frames, ornamental beds, and geo components. Commercial Fixturing & Components Operations in this segment manufacture and sell store fixtures and point of purchase displays used in retail stores. We also produce chair controls, bases, and other components for office furniture manufacturers. 32 Table of Contents PART II Industrial Materials These operations primarily supply steel rod, drawn steel wire, steel billets, and welded steel tubing to other Leggett operations and to external customers. Our wire and tubing is used to make bedding, furniture, automotive seats, wire retail fixtures, mechanical springs, and many other end products. Specialized Products From this segment we supply lumbar systems and wire components used by automotive seating manufacturers. We manufacture and install the racks, shelving and cabinets used to outfit fleets of service vans. We also produce machinery, both for ourselves and for others, including bedding manufacturers. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures During the past two years, we have divested six businesses. In 2008, we sold our Aluminum Products segment and four smaller business units (Wood Products, Fibers, Plastics, and the dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products). In 2009, we sold the Coated Fabrics business unit. We received after tax cash proceeds of $420 million for these six businesses, exceeding our original estimate of approximately $400 million. One additional business unit (Storage Products) is also targeted for divestiture. Results of operations for all of these businesses are classified as discontinued operations in our financial statements. For the remaining divestiture, we expect to recover the carrying value of the net assets held for sale. Net assets classified as held for sale totaled $40 million at December 31, 2009 (this includes $22 million not associated with the Storage Products business). Although recent market conditions have delayed the timing of the final disposition, we are fully committed to selling this business. Strategic Direction In late 2007, we outlined significant changes to the Companys strategy. We adopted a new primary financial metric (Total Shareholder Return), adopted role based portfolio management, implemented more rigorous strategic planning, and changed the priorities for use of cash. Our goals, in sequential order, were to i) divest low performing businesses, ii) return more cash to investors, iii) improve margins and returns, and iv) begin to carefully and conservatively grow the company at 4 5% of annual revenue. We have made significant progress over the past two years. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is the key financial measure that we use to monitor performance. TSR is driven by the change in our share price and the dividends we pay [TSR (Change in Stock Price + Dividends) / Beginning Stock Price]. We focus on four key sources of TSR: revenue growth, margin expansion, dividends, and share repurchases. Historically, our primary objective was profitable growth. Going forward, we intend to generate higher TSR through a balanced approach that employs all four sources of TSR. In 2008, dividends and stock buybacks largely drove our TSR; during 2009, we benefited significantly from margin improvement; and within a few years we expect that modest 33 Table of Contents PART II annual sales growth will also contribute to TSR. Beginning in 2008, we introduced TSR based incentives for senior executives and modified business unit bonuses to give more importance to achieving higher returns on the assets under their direct control. For the two year period ended December 31, 2009, our TSR performance places us within the top 4% of the S&P 500 companies. We narrowed our focus and eliminated (during 2008 and 2009) approximately 15% of our portfolio through the divestiture of the Aluminum Products segment and five additional business units (one divestiture remains). We also narrowed the scope of the Store Fixtures unit to focus primarily on the metals part of the fixtures industry, in alignment with Leggetts core competency of producing steel and steel related products. These activities were largely complete by the end of 2008, and resulted in charges that impacted our operating results (primarily in 2007 and 2008). Those charges are discussed on page 37 under the section titled Asset Impairments and Restructuring related Charges. We have implemented a more rigorous strategic planning process to assess our business units and help guide future decisions regarding business unit roles, capital allocation priorities, and new areas in which to grow. We review the portfolio classification of each unit on an annual basis to determine its appropriate role (Grow, Core, Fix, or Divest). This review includes criteria such as competitive position, market attractiveness, business unit size, and fit within our overall objectives, as well as financial indicators such as EBITDA growth, operating cash flows, and return on assets. To remain in the portfolio, business units are expected to consistently generate after tax returns in excess of our cost of capital. Business units that fail to consistently attain minimum return goals will be moved to the Fix or Divest categories. The majority of our business units are categorized as Core. A much smaller percentage are categorized as Grow; consequently, we recognize as a strategic imperative the need to expand the Grow category by improving i) our success rate at developing innovative new products and ii) our abilities to identify new growth platforms. A few small business units are considered Fix, and must improve their performance within a reasonable time frame (with some latitude given them due to the weak economy). Finally, a few small business units (and portions of business units) are considered non strategic, and will likely be divested as the M&A market recovers and allows for reasonable sales prices. The strategic changes have increased available cash. We expect to continue returning much of this cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with no single one representing over 6% of our sales. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture and bedding, a variety of other manufacturers, and many major retailers. 34 Table of Contents PART II Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are market demand, raw material cost trends, and competition. Market Demand Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Demand weakness in the majority of our markets during 2009 led to lower unit orders, utilization levels, sales and earnings. Several factors, including weak global economies, a depressed housing market, and low consumer confidence contributed to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. Short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into future demand trends; however, we currently expect demand to stabilize at these lower levels. Given our balance sheet strength, operating cash flow and access to credit, we expect to be able to endure an extended downturn in market demand with no material impact to our financial position or liquidity. Activities completed over the past few years (including the divestiture of businesses under our strategic plan, closure of certain underperforming and underutilized facilities, elimination of sales with unacceptable margins, and other cost reduction initiatives) improved our cost position in advance of the late 2008 economic contraction, and we continued to tightly constrain spending in 2009. We face decisions about further facility consolidation but have chosen to retain excess capacity because we believe that eventually market demand will improve. With our currently low utilization levels, we should be able to readily accommodate that demand improvement when it occurs. Raw Material Costs In many of our businesses, we enjoy a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that many of our competitors generally do not have. Still, our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. Purchasing arrangements vary across the company. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly, our raw material costs generally move with the market. In certain of our businesses, we have longer term purchase contracts with pricing terms that provide stability under reasonable market conditions. However, when commodities experience extreme inflation, vendors do not always honor those contracts. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Conversely, when costs decrease significantly, we generally pass those lower costs through to our customers. The timing of our price increases or decreases is a critical factor; we typically experience a lag in recovering higher costs, so we also expect to realize a lag as costs decline. 35 Table of Contents PART II Steel is our principal raw material and at various times in past years we have experienced extreme cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers via selling price adjustments. Steel costs increased significantly in 2008 and we implemented price increases to recover these higher costs. Market prices for steel began to decrease in late 2008, but with the precipitous drop in demand late in the year and our inability to cancel or return higher priced earlier purchases, we entered 2009 with high cost steel in inventory. As steel costs decreased in 2009, we implemented selective price reductions; however at the lower commodity cost levels, we enhanced our margins. As a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). The increase in scrap costs in late 2009 and early 2010 has resulted in currently lower metal margins in the steel market and in our rod producing operation. While pricing trends in the steel market are difficult to predict, we expect the lower metal margins to continue in 2010. Our other raw materials include woven and non woven fabrics, foam scrap, and chemicals. We have experienced changes in the cost of these materials in recent years, and typically pass them through to our customers. When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We experienced this de contenting effect in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments in recent years. As our customers changed the quantity and mix of components in their finished goods to address steel and chemical inflation, our profit margins were negatively impacted. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of mattress innersprings and boxsprings) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and in certain instances, provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Competition Many of our markets are highly competitive with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. We believe we gain competitive advantage in our global markets through low cost operations, significant internal production of key raw materials, manufacturing expertise and product innovation, higher quality products, extensive customer service capabilities, and financial strength. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering product quality, innovation, and customer service. We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. We currently operate 10 facilities in China. In recent years we experienced increased competition in the U.S. from foreign bedding component manufacturers. We reacted to this competition by selectively adjusting prices, 36 Table of Contents PART II and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. The increased price competition for bedding components was partially due to lower wire costs in China. Certain foreign manufacturers also benefit from more lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. In late 2007, we filed an antidumping suit related to innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam. We saw a distinct decline in unfair imports during 2008 after the antidumping investigations began. As a result, we regained market share and performance in our Bedding group improved. The investigations were brought to a favorable conclusion in early 2009. The current antidumping duty rates on innersprings from these countries are significant, ranging from 116% to 234%, and should remain in effect for at least another four years. Imported innersprings from these countries are now supposed to be sold at fair prices, however the duties on certain innersprings are being evaded by various means including shipping the goods through a third country and misclassifying the actual country of origin. Leggett, along with several U.S. manufacturers of steel wire products with active antidumping and antidumping/countervailing duty orders, formed a coalition and are working with members of Congress, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection to seek stronger enforcement of existing antidumping and or countervailing duty orders. Asset Impairments and Restructuring related Charges Net impairment and restructuring related charges (for both continuing and discontinued operations) totaled $405 million over the last three years ($16 million in 2009, $84 million in 2008, and $305 million in 2007). The majority of these charges, or $344 million, occurred as a result of the 2007 Strategic Plan announced in late 2007 ($154 million in continuing operations and $190 million in discontinued operations); we believe this activity to be substantially complete. For further information about asset impairments and restructuring, see Notes C and D to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 85 and 89. For information regarding the methodology and assumptions we use for impairment testing, refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates on page 55, and also Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 85. 37 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2009 vs. 2008 During 2009, sales from continuing operations decreased 25%, reflecting a combination of weak market demand, steel related price deflation, and our decision to exit some specific sales with unacceptable margins. In the majority of our global markets, demand stabilized at low levels in early 2009. Despite the significant sales decline, full year earnings from continuing operations decreased only modestly, from $128 million in 2008 to $121 million in 2009. Cost structure improvements and pricing discipline offset nearly all the impact from lower sales. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. To comply with FASB guidance for presentation of noncontrolling interest (discussed on page 82), earnings for 2008 have been retrospectively adjusted to include the portion of earnings from our joint ventures that are attributable to the minority investors. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2009, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 4,076 Acquisition sales growth 1 % Small divestitures (36 ) (0.9 )% Internal sales decline: Approximate deflation (90 ) (2.2 )% Approximate exited volume (175 ) (4.3 )% Approximate unit volume decline (721 ) (17.7 )% Internal sales decline (986 ) (24.2 )% Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 3,055 (25.1 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 128 Lower restructuring related charges 5 Lower asset impairments 8 Bad debt expense associated with a customer bankruptcy (6 ) Divestiture note write down (7 ) Lower net interest expense 5 Unusual tax items (6 ) Other factors, including lower unit volume offset by cost savings and pricing discipline (6 ) Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 121 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2008 $ 0.73 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2009 $ 0.74 38 Table of Contents PART II Sales from continuing operations decreased 25% versus 2008, reflecting weak market demand, inflation related price decreases, and our decision to exit specific customer programs with unacceptable profit margins (the largest portion in our Store Fixtures business). Full year earnings from continuing operations also decreased in 2009. The earnings impact from lower unit volume was largely offset by cost reduction initiatives and pricing discipline. Other factors impacting the year over year earnings comparison are presented in the table above. The divestiture note write down (identified in the table) occurred when we learned in 2009 that the aluminum operations divested in July 2008 needed a capital infusion from the buyer due to deterioration in business conditions. This led to a reduction in the value of the note we accepted in 2008 as partial payment for the divesture. Leggett has accepted a more subordinate position in the capital structure of the divested operations. LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. We experienced a large swing in the LIFO impact during the past two years. In 2008, significant steel cost inflation along with moderately higher inventory levels resulted in LIFO expense from continuing operations of $62 million. In 2009, steel cost decreases and lower inventory levels resulted in a LIFO benefit from continuing operations of $67 million. Segment level earnings in 2008 generally benefited under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs, but in the first half of 2009, were significantly burdened as we consumed higher cost steel (both in inventory and committed under purchase agreements) while selling prices decreased. The LIFO impact recognized at the corporate level is generally offset each year by FIFO impacts at the segment level; however, we experienced significant variability in our quarterly earnings in 2009 as these items were recognized. Earnings in the first two quarters of 2009 were significantly impacted as we consumed the majority of the higher cost steel but recognized only about half of the offsetting LIFO benefit (consistent with our historical practice of recording annual LIFO impacts evenly throughout the year). The remainder of the LIFO benefit was recognized in the last half of 2009, a period during which we experienced only minimal impact from higher cost steel. For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 78. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense decreased $8 million versus 2008, primarily the result of lower commercial paper borrowings and lower interest rates in 2009. The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate for 2009 was higher, at 39.0%, versus 33.8% in 2008. This increase is primarily due to i) tax adjustments resulting from 39 Table of Contents PART II Mexican tax law changes, and ii) the lower level of earnings and mix among tax jurisdictions. In 2009, tax law changes in Mexico caused us to re evaluate our deferred tax assets and liabilities in that jurisdiction. As a result of our analysis, we recorded a $6 million tax charge to earnings related to current and prior year losses that may expire before they can be utilized to reduce taxable earnings. In 2008, a tax benefit associated with the write off of an acquired companys stock was offset by increased reserves for uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances against deferred tax assets for certain foreign entities. Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2009 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 93. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 1,693 $ 90 5.3 % Year ended December 31, 2008 2,120 151 7.1 % Decrease $ (427 ) $ (61 ) % decrease (20 )% (40 )% Internal sales decrease (19 )% Small divestitures (1 )% Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2009, reflecting weak market demand and steel related price deflation. Demand in our residential markets was weak throughout 2009 as consumers world wide continued to defer purchases of large ticket items (such as mattress sets and upholstered furniture) that contain our products. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2008, with the earnings impact from significantly lower unit volumes partially offset by cost reductions, pricing discipline, elimination of poorly performing operations, and the absence of 2008s restructuring related and other costs ($18 million). Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 491 $ 8 1.6 % Year ended December 31, 2008 711 14 2.0 % Decrease $ (220 ) $ (6 ) % decrease (31 )% (43 )% Internal sales decrease (31 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 40 Table of Contents PART II Sales decreased in 2009 due to our decision in the Store Fixtures business to exit specific customer programs with unacceptable margins, reduced capital spending by retailers, and market softness in Office Furniture Components. EBIT and EBIT margins also decreased versus the prior year, as the impact from lower sales more than offset benefits from cost reductions, prior elimination of poorly performing facilities, and other operating improvements, as well as the absence of 2008s restructuring related costs ($11 million). Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 647 $ 60 9.3 % Year ended December 31, 2008 966 96 9.9 % Decrease $ (319 ) $ (36 ) % decrease (33 )% (38 )% Internal sales decrease (33 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 2009 sales decreased, reflecting weak demand in many of our markets (including bedding, furniture, and automotive) and steel related price deflation. EBIT and EBIT margins also decreased versus 2008, as lower sales more than offset cost reductions. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 501 $ 17 3.4 % Year ended December 31, 2008 682 45 6.6 % Decrease $ (181 ) $ (28 ) % decrease (27 )% (62 )% Internal sales decrease (27 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2009, reflecting weak global demand in our markets. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the prior year, as the impact from lower sales more than offset benefits from cost reduction initiatives and other operating improvements, as well as the absence of 2008s restructuring related costs ($5 million). Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $13 million, from a loss of $19 million in 2008 to a loss of $6 million in 2009. This earnings increase was primarily due to lower asset impairments and restructuring related charges, partially offset by $3 million (net of tax) of environmental charges related to an aluminum property. 41 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2008 vs. 2007 During 2008, sales from continuing operations decreased 4%. We reported full year net earnings from continuing operations of $128 million, which included $21 million of restructuring related charges, impairments, and other items. Our 2008 earnings reflected soft market demand which led to lower unit volume in many of our businesses. In the majority of our markets, demand was soft throughout the year, but weakened appreciably late in the third quarter as consumers further reduced their spending in response to the financial market distress and general U.S. and global economic conditions. Market share gains in certain businesses offset some of the impact from weak demand. During the year, we also experienced significant inflation in steel costs, and we successfully implemented price increases to recover the majority of these higher costs. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. To comply with FASB guidance for presentation of noncontrolling interest (discussed on page 82), earnings have been retrospectively adjusted to include the portion of earnings from our joint ventures that are attributable to the minority investors. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2008, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 4,250 Acquisition sales growth 35 0.8 % Small divestitures (41 ) (0.9 )% Internal sales decline: Approximate inflation 285 6.7 % Approximate unit volume decline (453 ) (10.7 )% Internal sales decline (168 ) (4.0 )% Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 4,076 (4.1 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 65 Goodwill impairment in Fixture & Display 120 Restructuring related charges (4 ) Asset impairment (4 ) Lower net interest expense 6 Tax items 12 Other factors including lower unit volume and production (67 ) Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 128 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2007 $ 0.33 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2008 $ 0.73 42 Table of Contents PART II Sales from continuing operations decreased 4% versus 2007, primarily reflecting weak market demand and our decision to exit specific sales volume with unacceptable profit margins (primarily in our Store Fixtures business). These declines were partially offset by inflation related price increases and market share gains. Our U.S. bedding components business gained market share in 2008 as a result of: i) bedding manufacturers shifting innerspring purchases from international to domestic sources; ii) the deverticalization of a strong regional bedding manufacturer (they now buy components from us that they previously produced for themselves); and, iii) increased demand for innerspring mattresses, rather than premium priced, non innerspring products. We experienced significant inflation in steel costs during 2008, and in response, we implemented price increases to recover the higher costs. The magnitude of our selling price increases varied by product line depending on steel content, but in our major Residential and Industrial businesses, prices increased substantially. By late 2008, steel costs began to decrease. Full year earnings from continuing operations were higher than in 2007, primarily due to: Non recurrence of 2007 goodwill impairment charges related to our Fixture & Display group ($120 million) Non recurrence of 2007 tax items ($12 million) adjustments to valuation allowances related to potential foreign tax benefits Lower interest expense Several factors negatively impacted earnings. The most significant were: Unit volume declines (down roughly 10% for the year) Higher restructuring related charges and asset impairments ($19 million) Reduced production levels with the significant pull back in demand late in the year, we cut production (even below depressed demand levels) and reduced inventories LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. Significant steel cost increases during the year, along with moderately higher levels of these steel related inventories, resulted in LIFO expense from continuing operations of $62 million in 2008 (versus a $1 million benefit in 2007). Segment level earnings in 2008 generally benefited under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs. For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 78. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense decreased $9 million versus 2007, primarily the result of debt maturities paid in 2007 and 2008, as well as lower commercial paper borrowings. 43 Table of Contents PART II The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate for 2008 was also lower, at 33.8% versus 55.9% in 2007. The 2007 rate was negatively impacted by goodwill impairment charges totaling $143 million, of which $95 million were non deductible. This caused the 2007 rate as a percent of pre tax income to be much higher than normal. In 2008, a tax benefit associated with the write off of an acquired companys stock was offset by increased reserves for uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances against deferred tax assets for certain foreign entities. In the third quarter of 2008, we recorded a $4 million valuation allowance against certain foreign tax assets. The valuation allowance related to our Canadian automotive operations that produce lumbar supports. In late 2008, the automotive industry was in a dramatic state of decline, which reduced the demand for our components. In addition to demand factors, these operations were also negatively impacted by the strength in recent years of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar (our Canadian automotive operations sell in U.S. dollars while incurring labor and overhead costs in Canadian dollars, thereby reducing margins). As a result, we believed it was more likely than not that we would not realize the benefit of deferred tax assets associated with these operations. We provide a discussion regarding the recoverability of the Automotive units long lived assets under Critical Accounting Policies on page 56. Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2008 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 94. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 2,120 $ 151 7.1 % Year ended December 31, 2007 2,254 174 7.7 % Decrease $ (134 ) $ (23 ) % decrease (6 )% (13 )% Internal sales decrease (5 )% Small divestitures (1 )% Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2008, reflecting weak market demand. This decrease was partially offset by inflation related price increases and market share gains in our U.S. bedding business (discussed under Consolidated Results above). Demand in our U.S. residential markets was weak throughout 2008, but softened further in late September reflecting reduced spending by consumers on large ticket items that contain our products. International markets, which were relatively stronger earlier in the year, also experienced much softer demand in the latter part of the year as a result of deteriorating global economic conditions. 44 Table of Contents PART II EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2007 due to lower sales and higher asset impairments and restructuring related costs (of $14 million), partially offset by a gain from the sale of a business (of $8 million) and operating improvements in certain locations. Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 711 $ 14 2.0 % Year ended December 31, 2007 837 (104 ) (12.4 )% (Decrease) increase $ (126 ) $ 118 % (decrease) increase (15 )% 113 % Internal sales decrease (15 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % Sales decreased in 2008 due to several factors, including our decision in the Store Fixtures business to exit specific sales volume with unacceptable margins, reduced capital spending by retailers, and lower demand for office furniture components. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus the prior year, primarily due to the non recurrence of 2007s goodwill impairment charge (of $143 million), partially offset by lower sales. Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 966 $ 96 9.9 % Year ended December 31, 2007 776 55 7.1 % Increase $ 190 $ 41 % increase 24 % 75 % Internal sales increase 24 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 2008 sales increased significantly, primarily from the pass through of higher steel costs and increased sales of steel billets. Ongoing weak demand in many of our markets (including bedding, furniture, and automotive) offset a portion of the sales gain. EBIT and EBIT margins also increased versus 2007, primarily due to higher sales and operating improvements in certain locations. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 682 $ 45 6.6 % Year ended December 31, 2007 715 70 9.8 % Decrease $ (33 ) $ (25 ) % decrease (5 )% (36 )% Internal sales decrease (5 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) 0 % 45 Table of Contents PART II Sales decreased in 2008, primarily reflecting weak demand that continued throughout the year in our North American automotive business and the fleet portion of Commercial Vehicle Products. Our machinery and European and Asian automotive businesses posted full year sales growth despite demand softening late in the year. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the prior year, mainly due to lower sales, higher restructuring related costs (of $4 million), and higher steel costs with limited recovery. Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $52 million, from a loss of $71 million in 2007 to a loss of $19 million in 2008. This earnings increase was primarily due to lower asset impairments and restructuring related charges (of $90 million), partially offset by the non recurrence of a 2007 tax benefit (of $30 million) associated with a difference in book and tax basis of stock held in the Aluminum segment as a result of that business reaching held for sale status. 46 Table of Contents PART II LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details, reflecting both continuing and discontinued operations, about our: Uses of cash Cash from operations Debt position and total capitalization We use cash for the following: Finance capital requirements (e.g. productivity, growth and acquisitions) Pay dividends Repurchase our stock Our operations provide much of the cash we require, and debt may also be used to fund a portion of our needs. In 2008, cash proceeds from completed divestitures were an additional significant source of funds. In 2009, we generated our second highest level of cash from operations in our history, at $565 million. With less benefit from working capital reductions expected in 2010, operating cash should approximate $300 million, readily exceeding our annual requirement for capital expenditures and dividends. We ended 2009 with net debt to net capital of 23.7%, below our long term target and year end 2008 levels. Our long term target is to have net debt as a percent of net capital in the 30% 40% range. Page 53 presents a table of the calculation of net debt as a percent of net capital at the end of the past two years. Uses of Cash Finance Capital Requirements Improving returns of the existing asset base will continue to be a key focus. However, cash is available to fund selective growth, both internally (through capital expenditures) and externally (through acquisitions). 47 Table of Contents PART II Capital expenditures include investments we make to modernize, maintain, and expand manufacturing capacity. With our move to role based portfolio management, we are more restrictive in funding capital projects. Capital spending in 2010 is expected to be less than $90 million. Growth capital, which had historically been available to all our businesses, is now predominantly earmarked for our Grow business units. Operations designated as Core business units receive capital primarily for productivity enhancements, but expansion capital is limited. We have also set a higher bar for acquisitions, and plan to pursue disciplined growth through fewer, but more strategic, opportunities. We will seek acquisitions within our growth businesses, and will also look for longer term opportunities to enter new, higher growth markets that meet strict criteria. As a result of the new acquisition criteria, no significant acquisitions were completed in 2008 or 2009. In 2007, we acquired three businesses that were expected to add about $100 million to annual revenue ($20 million in Commercial Fixturing & Components, $50 million in Industrial Materials, and $30 million in Specialized Products). These businesses: established a foothold in Asian production of office chair controls manufactured coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers, and presented Leggett with expanded technologies and cross segment selling opportunities broadened our suite of products for commercial vehicle interiors In addition to the initial cash outlays for acquisitions (shown in the accompanying chart), we also assumed debt of $24 million in 2007. We provide additional details about acquisitions in Note R to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 114. Pay Dividends With continued improvement in margins and returns, a decrease in capital spending and acquisitions, and the completion of most of the divestitures, we expect (and have recently had) more available cash to return to shareholders. Higher annual dividends are one means by which that will occur. In late 2007, we raised our quarterly dividend by 39%, 48 Table of Contents PART II to $.25 per share. In 2009 we modestly increased the quarterly dividend further, to $.26 per share, and extended to 38 years our record of consecutive annual dividend increases, at an average compound growth rate of 14%. Our targeted dividend payout is approximately 50 60% of net earnings, but has been higher recently and will likely remain above targeted levels in the near term. Maintaining and increasing the dividend remains a high priority. We expect to spend approximately $155 million on dividends in 2010 (slightly less than in 2009 because of share repurchases). Cash from operations has been, and is expected to continue to be, sufficient to readily fund both capital expenditures and dividends. Repurchase Stock Share repurchases are the other means by which we return cash to shareholders. During the past three years, we repurchased a total of 38 million shares of our stock and reduced outstanding shares by about 16%. In 2009, we repurchased approximately 6% of shares outstanding at an average per share price of $18.21. We expect to repurchase additional shares in 2010, with the amount of purchases dependent on factors such as general economic conditions, level of demand in our end markets, and the availability of excess cash. Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have been authorized by the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares in 2010. 49 Table of Contents PART II Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Earnings and changes in working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. In 2009, cash from operations increased $129 million versus 2008 primarily as a result of improving working capital trends. Accounts receivable While the dollar amount of accounts receivable has decreased primarily due to weak sales, our days of sales outstanding has increased as customers have slowed payments during the continued economic downturn. We continue to focus on collection efforts to ensure customer accounts are paid on time. Inventory Specific actions to reduce raw material purchases and production levels, along with price deflation, have resulted in a lower dollar amount of inventory. However, the number of days of inventory on hand increased versus the prior year due to weak sales. Accounts Payable We continue efforts to optimize payment terms with our vendors and as a result have seen an increase in both dollars of accounts payable and number of days of payables outstanding. Cash from operations in 2008, though strong, was $178 million lower than in 2007 primarily due to a smaller year over year decrease in working capital. Extremely weak market demand in the latter part of 2008 negatively impacted earnings. Working capital decreased in 2008 as a result of lower inventory and accounts receivable levels. Fourth quarter production cuts led to lower inventory levels (versus the prior year). Accounts receivable also declined primarily due to extremely weak sales late in the year. 50 Table of Contents PART II The following table presents key working capital measures at the end of the past two years. Amount (in millions) # Days Outstanding 2009 2008 Change 2009 2008 Change Accounts Receivable, net (1) $ 469 $ 550 ($81 ) 56 49 7 Inventory, net (2) $ 409 $ 495 ($86 ) 62 53 9 Accounts Payable (3) $ 199 $ 175 $24 30 19 11 (1) The accounts receivable ratio represents the days of sales outstanding calculated as: ending net accounts receivable &divide; (net sales &divide; number of days in the year). (2) The inventory ratio represents days of inventory on hand calculated as: ending net inventory &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). (3) The accounts payable ratio represents the days of payables outstanding calculated as: ending accounts payable &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). Working capital levels vary by segment. The Commercial Fixturing & Components segment typically has relatively higher accounts receivable balances due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Fixture & Display group. This business group also generally requires higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of its products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. 51 Table of Contents PART II Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 764 $ 774 $ 796 Average interest rates (1) 4.6 % 4.7 % 4.9 % Average maturities in years (1) 5.6 6.4 6.8 Revolving credit/commercial paper 25 77 205 Total long term debt 789 851 1,001 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 161 116 124 Equity (2) 1,576 1,671 2,148 Total capitalization $ 2,526 $ 2,638 $ 3,273 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 491 $ 523 $ 395 Short term Total unused committed credit $ 491 $ 523 $ 395 Current maturities of long term debt $ 10 $ 22 $ 89 Cash and cash equivalents $ 260 $ 165 $ 205 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (3) 4.6 x 3.7 x 2.7 x (1) These calculations include current maturities, but exclude commercial paper to reflect the averages of outstanding debt with scheduled maturities. (2) Equity decreased $480 million in 2008, primarily reflecting net share repurchases of $234 million, dividends of $165 million, and currency impacts of $146 million. (3) Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, plus implied interest included in operating leases. Earnings consist principally of income from continuing operations before income taxes, plus fixed charges. The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2009 and 2008, calculated in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows a more meaningful comparison to periods during which cash fluctuates significantly. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. 52 Table of Contents PART II (Dollar amounts in millions) 2009 2008 Long term debt $ 789 $ 851 Current debt maturities 10 22 Cash and cash equivalents (260 ) (165 ) Net debt $ 539 $ 708 Total capitalization $ 2,526 $ 2,638 Current debt maturities 10 22 Cash and cash equivalents (260 ) (165 ) Net capitalization $ 2,276 $ 2,495 Long term debt to total capitalization 31.2 % 32.2 % Net debt to net capitalization 23.7 % 28.4 % Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) decreased $74 million in 2009. During the year, we reduced our commercial paper borrowings by $52 million and paid off $22 million of other long term debt that came due. We can raise cash by issuing up to $600 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $600 million revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of 14 lenders that terminates in 2012. Based on the information currently available to us, we believe that the participating banks continue to have the ability to meet their obligations under the agreement. At December 31, 2009, $25 million of commercial paper was outstanding under this program and is classified as long term debt. We also maintain an active shelf registration. With anticipated operating cash flows, the commercial paper program and the active shelf registration, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and fund future growth. Our commercial paper program continued to operate efficiently during the disruption of the global credit markets in late 2008; those markets stabilized during 2009. Changes in the credit markets and other events of the past year did not materially impact our weighted average effective borrowing rate for commercial paper. If a disruption in the credit market was to become so severe that we were unable to issue commercial paper, we have the contractual right to draw funds directly on our revolving credit agreement. In such event, the cost of borrowing under the revolving credit agreement could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowing. The revolving credit agreement provides for the ability to issue letters of credit up to an aggregate $250 million. Any utilization of these commitments for letters of credit reduces our commercial paper/loan capacity by a corresponding amount. At December 31, 2009, we had issued $84 million of letters of credit under these commitments. Accordingly, at year end, an additional $491 million was available to us under our commercial paper program ($600 million in total program $25 million of outstanding commercial paper $84 million of issued letters of credit). 53 Table of Contents PART II CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual cash obligations and commitments: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total LessThan 1Year 1 3Years 3 5Years MoreThan 5Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt * $ 795 $ 9 $ 27 $ 381 $ 378 Capitalized leases 4 1 2 1 Operating leases 110 33 42 19 16 Purchase obligations ** 255 255 Interest payments *** 196 35 71 54 36 Deferred income taxes 49 49 Other obligations (including pensions and reserves for tax contingencies) 125 10 17 8 90 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,534 $ 343 $ 159 $ 463 $ 569 * The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. Long term debt includes $25 million of outstanding commercial paper, which is generally due overnight. We have classified commercial paper as long term debt (due in 1 3 years) since the commercial paper program is supported by a $600 million revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. ** Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. *** Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2009 at rates in effect at the end of the year. These totals include interest on the $25 million of outstanding commercial paper discussed above. 54 Table of Contents PART II CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur. Critical accounting estimates are those that are: a) subject to uncertainty and change, and b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed below are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements. We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 78. Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Goodwill Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually as of June 30 and as triggering events occur. In the past three years, no impairments have been recorded as a result of the annual impairment reviews. As a result of the deterioration in the economic and financial climate in the fourth quarter 2008, an interim goodwill impairment analysis was performed confirming that estimated fair value exceeded carrying values for all reporting units. In the fourth quarter 2007, we performed an interim goodwill impairment review as a result of the November 2007 Strategic Plan, and recorded goodwill impairment charges related to the Fixture & Display reporting unit of $143 million. In order to assess goodwill for potential impairment, judgment is required to estimate the fair market value of each reporting unit (which is one level below reportable segments) using the combination of a discounted cash flow model and market approach using price to earnings ratios for comparable publicly traded companies with characteristics similar to the reporting unit. The cash flow model contains uncertainties related to the forecast of future results as many outside economic and competitive factors can influence future performance. Margins, sales levels, and discount rates are the most critical estimates in determining enterprise values using the cash flow model. Fair market values for three of the 10 reporting units exceeded book value by 10 20%. The goodwill associated with these reporting units is $373 million. These reporting units are dependent on the global automotive markets and the commercial and residential construction markets. We expect future operating results to improve for all of these reporting units. If actual performance does not improve and remains at current levels, future goodwill impairments could be possible. The remaining reporting units (including Fixture & Display) have fair market values that exceed carrying value by more than 20%, and have goodwill of $555 million. 55 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Goodwill (cont.) Additional goodwill impairments were recorded in 2007, 2008, and 2009 related to assets held for sale as discussed below. The market approach requires judgment to determine the appropriate price to earnings ratio. Ratios are derived from comparable publicly traded companies that operate in the same or similar industry as the reporting unit. Information regarding material assumptions used to determine if a goodwill impairment exists can be found in Note C on page 85. Assets Held for Sale Assets held for sale are carried at the lower of historical cost or net realizable value (fair market value less cost to sell). We review and update our estimates of net realizable value on a quarterly basis. As a result of the 2007 Strategic Plan, goodwill and other long lived asset impairments of $138 million related to businesses targeted for divestiture were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007 (in discontinued operations). Throughout 2008 and 2009, we recorded additional impairments of $32 million and $3 million, respectively (in discontinued operations), as updated estimates of fair value less costs to sell became more certain. Fair market value for assets held for sale contains uncertainties surrounding the expected proceeds from the ultimate sale of the business or asset. This value is usually determined using offers received for these businesses prior to sale, or earnings multiples in the current market. For individual assets (closed facilities, etc.) periodic appraisals are performed to determine fair market value. We could incur additional write downs in the future if our estimates of fair value less costs to sell prove inaccurate, or if further assets or businesses are targeted for divestiture. Other Long lived Assets Other long lived assets are tested for recoverability at year end and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairments of other long lived assets usually occur when major restructuring activities take place, or we decide to discontinue product lines completely. These impairments are very unpredictable, and are difficult to anticipate. Impairments were $3 million in 2009, $13 million in 2008, and $6 million in 2007. 56 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Other Long lived Assets (cont.) For other long lived assets we estimate fair value at the lowest level where cash flows can be measured (usually at a branch level). Our impairment assessments have uncertainties because they require estimates of future cash flows to determine if undiscounted cash flows are sufficient to recover carrying values of these assets. For assets where future cash flows are not expected to recover carrying value, fair value is estimated which requires an estimate of market value based upon asset appraisals for like assets. As a result of the circumstances that caused us to record a $4 million valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of a Canadian automotive facility in the fourth quarter 2008, we tested the carrying value of this entity for recoverability and concluded that no impairments were indicated. In 2009, we monitored cash flows generated by this entity and again concluded that cash flows are sufficient to recover the current carrying value of $51 million as of December 31, 2009. We believe that future restructuring and shut down activities should be equal to or less than those in 2009, however this could change if certain product lines or businesses do not meet return expectations. This could cause us to decide to exit a business which could trigger long lived asset impairment. Inventory Reserves In determining the value of inventories, we reduce the carrying value of inventories to reflect an estimate of net realizable value for obsolete and slow moving inventory. If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to have no value and are written down completely. If we have more than a one years supply of a product, we value that inventory at net realizable value (what we think we will recover). Our inventory reserve contains uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow moving (i.e. not selling very quickly). Changes in customer behavior and requirements can cause inventory to quickly become obsolete or slow moving. At December 31, 2009, we had recorded an inventory reserve of $42 million (approximately 9% of FIFO inventories) to account for obsolete inventories. Additions to inventory reserves have averaged $22 million in each of the past three years. Approximately two thirds of historical write downs relate to the Commercial Fixturing & Components and Specialized Products segments due to the custom nature of their products. 57 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Inventory Reserves (cont.) The calculation also uses an estimate of the ultimate recoverability of items identified as slow moving based upon historical experience (65% on average). We are implementing new inventory optimization processes that should reduce the impact of write downs in the future. We do not expect any significant changes in customer or industry trends that would increase the exposure to inventory obsolescence. Workers Compensation We are substantially self insured for costs related to workers compensation, which requires us to estimate the liability associated with this obligation. Our estimates of self insured reserves contain uncertainties regarding the potential amounts we might have to pay (since we are self insured). We consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $14 million annually for costs associated with workers compensation. Average year to year variation over the past five years has been approximately $3 million. At December 31, 2009, we had accrued $46 million to cover future self insurance liabilities. Internal safety statistics indicate improving safety trends in the last two years. Usually, safety statistics are leading indicators of exposure trends. As a result of headcount reductions and improved safety trends, we expect worker compensation costs to remain at current lower levels for the foreseeable future. Credit Losses For accounts and notes receivable, we estimate a bad debt reserve for the amount that will ultimately be uncollectible. When we become aware of a specific customers potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible. Our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate the amount uncollectible based upon an evaluation of several factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience. A significant change in the financial status of a large customer could impact our estimates. 58 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Credit Losses (cont.) Our customers are diverse and many are small to medium sized companies, with some being highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning. The average annual amount of customer related credit losses was $17 million (less than 1% of annual net sales) over the last three years. At December 31, 2009, our reserves for doubtful accounts not held for sale totaled $23 million (about 5% of our accounts and notes receivable of $435 million). Weak market demand has intensified pressure on highly leveraged customers in some of our industries. In each of 2008 and 2009, we experienced bad debt expense that was approximately $15 million higher than pre 2008 levels. We expect a return to more normal levels, however if weak market demand persists, other bankruptcies could be possible. We also recognized an $11 million loss in 2009 related to the Aluminum divestiture note. At December 31, 2009, we had $17 million of notes outstanding, primarily related to divested businesses, and have concluded that no reserve is required for these notes. Pension Accounting For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations. The pension liability calculation contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of future benefits paid, which also impacts current year pension expense. The discount rates used to calculate the pension liability and pension expense has remained consistent at approximately 6% for the last three years. A 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $.3 million and decrease the plans funded status by approximately $6 million. 59 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Pension Accounting (cont.) Determination of pension expense requires an estimate of expected return on pension assets based upon the mix of investments held (bonds and equities). Other assumptions include rates of compensation increases, withdrawal and mortality rates, and retirement ages. These estimates impact the pension expense or income we recognize and our reported benefit obligations. The expected return on assets decreased in 2009 to 6.9%, from a rate in 2008 of 7.9%, and 7.8% in 2007. The reduction in the rate was primarily driven by a change in asset allocation toward more conservative investments (ie. bonds). A 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.4 million, but have no effect on the plans funded status. Assuming a long term investment horizon, we do not expect a material change to the return on asset assumption. Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. Our tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures related to our various filing positions. Our effective tax rate is also impacted by changes in tax laws, the current mix of earnings by taxing jurisdiction, and the results of current tax audits and assessments. Potential changes in tax laws under the new Administration could impact assumptions related to the non repatriation of certain foreign earnings. If all non repatriated earnings were taxed, we would incur additional taxes of approximately $35 million. The recovery of net operating losses (NOLs) has been closely evaluated for the likelihood of recovery based upon factors such as the age of losses, viable tax planning strategies, and future taxable earnings expectations. We believe that appropriate valuation allowances have been recorded as necessary. However, if earnings expectations or other assumptions change such that additional valuation allowances are required, we could incur additional tax expense. 60 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Income Taxes (cont.) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $28 million and $31 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount, source, and timing of future taxable income. Valuation allowances are established against future potential tax benefits to reflect the amounts we believe have no more than a 50% probability of being realized. In addition, assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of possible repatriation. Tax audits by various taxing authorities are expected to increase as governments continue to look for ways to raise additional revenue. Based upon past experience, we do not expect any major changes to our tax liability as a result of this increased audit activity; however, we could incur additional tax expense if we have audit adjustments higher than recent historical experience. Contingencies We evaluate various legal, environmental, and other potential claims against us to determine if an accrual or disclosure of the contingency is appropriate. If it is probable that an ultimate loss will be incurred, we accrue a liability for the estimate of the ultimate loss. Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) contain uncertainties because they are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. The largest claim against us is the Gray v. Derderian case, which is discussed below. We have agreed to a settlement with the plaintiff group, and have insurance coverage in excess of the settlement amount of $18.2 million. The only contingencies remaining are court approval and ultimate payment by our insurance carrier. In the highly unlikely event that our insurance carrier goes bankrupt prior to payment, we believe there are sufficient reserves (statutorily required) to cover the $18.2 million settlement. We also have several environmental clean up activities related to current and closed facilities that mostly involve soil and groundwater contamination. Based upon facts available at this time, we believe reserves are adequate, however cost estimates could change as we determine more about the severity and cost of remediation. 61 Table of Contents PART II Contingencies Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. On July 22, 2004, we were named as one of approximately 80 defendants in several cases consolidated as Gray v. Derderian, Case No. 1:04 CV 312 L, U.S.D.C. R.I. This litigation resulted from a nightclub fire in West Warwick, Rhode Island involving multiple deaths and injuries. There are in excess of 550 plaintiffs in the litigation. Along with other foam manufacturing defendants, Leggett is alleged to have manufactured and sold bulk polyurethane foam to a foam fabricator in Rhode Island, who in turn, is alleged to have fabricated and sold foam sheets to the nightclub. The foam was among other materials alleged to have caught fire when pyrotechnics were ignited inside the nightclub. We believe we did not manufacture the foam subject to the lawsuit and that we have valid defenses to the claims. Nevertheless, with our consent, our primary insurance carrier reached a tentative settlement with counsel for all plaintiffs on April 29, 2008 and we executed the final settlement agreement on October 6, 2009. The settlement agreement is subject to various court approvals and the signature of all plaintiffs. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, we would pay a $2 million self insured retention. The remainder of the $18.2 million settlement would be paid by our insurance carrier. We do not believe the settlement or the outcome will have a material effect on Leggetts financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. We recorded $2 million of expense in 2008 and currently have a $16.2 million receivable from the insurance carrier and an $18.2 million liability related to this matter, that is included in current assets and current liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS We adopted new accounting guidance in 2009 as discussed in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 82. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has also issued accounting guidance effective for future periods (that we have not yet adopted), but we do not believe this new guidance will have a material impact on our future financial statements. 62 Table of Contents PART II Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) Interest Rates The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars. The fair value of fixed rate debt was less than its carrying value by $71.1 at December 31, 2009, and less than its carrying value by $107.1 at December 31, 2008. The increase in the fair market value of the Companys debt is primarily due to the decrease in credit spreads over risk free rates as compared to the prior year end. The fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a Bloomberg secondary market rate, as of December 31, 2009 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs under its medium term note program. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Scheduled Maturity Date Long term debt as of December 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter 2009 2008 Principal fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ 200.0 $ 180.0 $ 350.0 $ 730.0 $ 745.0 Average interest rate % % % 4.70 % 4.65 % 4.77 % 4.72 % 4.77 % Principal variable rate debt 8.5 0.5 0.5 21.5 31.0 31.5 Average interest rate 0.43 % 0.52 % 0.52 % % % 0.56 % 0.52 % 1.83 % Miscellaneous debt* 38.4 97.1 Total debt 799.4 873.6 Less: current maturities (10.1 ) (22.4 ) Total long term debt $ 789.3 $ 851.2 * Includes $25 and $77 of commercial paper in 2009 and 2008, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It is the Companys policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in Note S on page 115 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. 63 Table of Contents PART II Investment in Foreign Subsidiaries The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2009 2008 European Currencies $ 324.8 $ 287.4 Canadian Dollar 236.3 205.1 Chinese Renminbi 157.9 160.0 Mexican Peso 38.4 51.6 Other 63.2 44.5 Total $ 820.6 $ 748.6 
 
