Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Demand improved in many of our markets during 2010. The automotive and office furniture markets experienced significant improvement from very depressed demand levels in 2009. Retail fixturing demand was also reasonably strong. Our residential bedding and furniture markets started 2010 strong but weakened in the last half of the year as consumer spending on larger ticket items slowed. Improved market demand led to higher sales and earnings in 2010. Activities completed over the past few years (including the divestiture of businesses under our strategic plan, closure of certain underperforming and underutilized facilities, elimination of sales with unacceptable margins, and other cost reduction initiatives) improved our cost position and enabled earnings to benefit notably from the higher volume. During 2010, we completed the sale of the seventh, and final divestiture identified as a part of our strategic realignment. The seven divestitures collectively generated $433 million of after tax cash proceeds (over the past three years), exceeding our original $400 million goal. Operating cash for the full year significantly exceeded the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends. Our focus on return optimization was reflected in part through the low level of working capital that was maintained as sales began to recover. In August, we raised the quarterly dividend to $.27 per share and extended to 39 years our record of consecutive annual dividend increases at a 14% compound annual growth rate. We also repurchased over 6 million shares of our stock during 2010. Our financial profile remains strong. We ended 2010 with net debt to net capital well below our long term targeted range, no significant fixed term debt maturing until 2013, and over $500 million available under our existing commercial paper program and revolver facility. We assess our overall performance by comparing our Total Shareholder Return (TSR), on a rolling three year basis, to that of peer companies. We target TSR in the top one third of the S&P 500 over the long term, which we believe will require average TSR of 12 15% per year. For the three years ended December 31, 2010, we generated TSR of 16% per year on average, which places us in the top 8% of the S&P 500. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. 30 Table of Contents PART II INTRODUCTION What We Do Leggett & Platt is a diversified manufacturer, and member of the S&P 500 index, that conceives, designs, and produces a wide range of engineered components and products found in most homes, offices, and automobiles, and many retail stores. We make components that are often hidden within, but integral to, our customers products. We are the leading U.S. manufacturer of: components for residential furniture and bedding, power foundations, carpet underlay, components for office furniture, drawn steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and bedding industry machinery. Our Segments Our continuing operations are composed of 19 business units in four segments, with approximately 19,000 employees and 140 production facilities located in 18 countries around the world. Our segments are described below. Residential Furnishings This segment supplies a variety of components mainly used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. We also sell carpet cushion, power foundations, bed frames, ornamental beds, and geo components. Commercial Fixturing & Components Operations in this segment manufacture and sell store fixtures and point of purchase displays used in retail stores. We also produce chair controls, bases, and other components for office furniture manufacturers, as well as select lines of private label finished furniture. 31 Table of Contents PART II Industrial Materials These operations primarily supply steel rod, drawn steel wire, steel billets, and welded steel tubing to other Leggett operations and to external customers. Our customers use this wire and tubing to make bedding, furniture, automotive seats, mechanical springs, and many other end products. We also supply fabricated wire products, such as shaped wire for automotive and medical supply application; tying heads, boxed wire, and parts for automatic baling equipment; coated wire products, including dishwasher racks, and wire retail fixtures and point of purchase displays. Specialized Products From this segment we supply lumbar support systems and seat suspension systems used by automotive seating manufacturers. We manufacture and install the racks, shelving and cabinets used to outfit fleets of service vans. We also produce quilting, sewing, and wire forming machinery, some of which is used by other Leggett operations as well as external customers, including bedding manufacturers. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures During the past three years, we divested seven businesses (approximately 15% of our portfolio) that we identified as a part of the strategic realignment announced in late 2007 (discussed below). In 2008, we sold our Aluminum Products segment and four smaller business units (Wood Products, Fibers, Plastics, and the dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products). In 2009, we sold the Coated Fabrics business unit, and in 2010 we divested the Storage Products business unit. We received after tax cash proceeds of $433 million for these seven businesses, exceeding our original estimate of approximately $400 million. Results of operations for all of these businesses are classified as discontinued operations in our financial statements. For more information about discontinued operations and the divestitures, see Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 84. Strategic Direction In late 2007, we outlined significant changes to the Companys strategy. We adopted a new primary financial metric (Total Shareholder Return), adopted role based portfolio management, implemented more rigorous strategic planning, and changed the priorities for use of cash. Our goals, in sequential order, were to i) divest low performing businesses, ii) return more cash to investors, iii) improve margins and returns, and iv) begin to carefully and conservatively grow the company at 4 5% of annual revenue. We have made significant progress over the past three years. The divestitures were largely complete by the end of 2008; margins and returns have improved; and we have returned much of our excess cash to our shareholders through higher dividends and share repurchases. Our focus now is two part: i) continue improving margins, and ii) begin laying the groundwork for long term 4 5% growth. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is the key financial measure that we use to monitor performance. TSR is driven by the change in our share price and the dividends we pay [TSR (Change in Stock Price + Dividends) / Beginning Stock Price]. We seek to achieve TSR in the top one third of the S&P 500 over the long term through a balanced approach 32 Table of Contents PART II that employs all four TSR sources: revenue growth, margin expansion, dividends, and share repurchases. In 2008, dividends and stock buybacks largely drove our TSR; during 2009, we benefited significantly from margin improvement; and in 2010, revenue growth (from improved market demand) boosted TSR. Beginning in 2008, we introduced TSR based incentives (based on our performance compared to the performance of a group of 320 peers) for senior executives and we modified business unit bonuses to give more importance to achieving higher returns on the assets under their direct control. We monitor our TSR performance, relative to the S&P 500, on a rolling three year basis. For the three year period ended December 31, 2010, our TSR performance placed us within the top 8% of the S&P 500 companies. So far, for the first two years of the next three year measurement period (which will end on December 31, 2011), our TSR performance ranks slightly above the midpoint (but not among the top one third) of the companies in the S&P 500. We utilize a rigorous strategic planning process to help guide future decisions regarding business unit roles, capital allocation priorities, and new areas in which to grow. We review the portfolio classification of each unit on an annual basis to determine its appropriate role (Grow, Core, Fix, or Divest). This review includes criteria such as competitive position, market attractiveness, business unit size, and fit within our overall objectives, as well as financial indicators such as EBITDA growth, operating cash flows, and return on assets. To remain in the portfolio, business units are expected to consistently generate after tax returns in excess of our cost of capital. Business units that fail to consistently attain minimum return goals will be moved to the Fix or Divest categories. The majority of our business units are categorized as Core. A smaller percentage are categorized as Grow; consequently, we recognize as a strategic imperative the need to expand the Grow category by improving i) our success rate at developing innovative new products and ii) our abilities to identify new growth platforms. A few small business units are considered Fix, and must improve their performance within a reasonable time frame. Finally, a few small business units (or portions of business units) are considered non strategic, and may be divested as the M&A market recovers and allows for reasonable sales prices. Long term, we aim to eventually achieve consistent, profitable growth of 4 5% annually. To attain this goal, we will need to supplement the approximate 2% 3% growth that our markets typically produce (in normal economic times) with two additional areas of opportunity. First, we must enhance our success rate at developing and commercializing innovative new products within markets in which we already enjoy strong competitive positions. Second, we need to uncover new growth platforms; opportunities in markets new to us, and in which Leggett would possess a competitive advantage. These growth efforts are receiving significant management attention and priority, and we are making progress in both areas. We have had success this past year, with new products introduced in our office components, automotive, and home furniture components businesses. Though individually those were modest successes, collectively they added to 2010s sales and earnings growth. In addition, we have instituted some of the processes that need to be in place to identify new market opportunities. Successful development of new growth platforms will take time; we do not anticipate significant contributions from these activities in the near term. The strategic changes have increased available cash. We expect to continue returning much of this cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. 33 Table of Contents PART II Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with our largest customer representing 6% of our sales. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture and bedding, a variety of other manufacturers, and many major retailers. Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are market demand, raw material cost trends, and competition. Market Demand Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Demand improved in many of our markets during 2010. The automotive and office furniture markets experienced significant improvement from very depressed demand levels in 2009. Retail fixturing demand was also reasonably strong. Our residential bedding and furniture markets started 2010 strong but weakened in the last half of the year as consumer spending on larger ticket items slowed. Improved market demand led to higher sales and earnings in 2010. Activities completed over the past few years (including the divestiture of businesses under our strategic plan, closure of certain underperforming and underutilized facilities, elimination of sales with unacceptable margins, and other cost reduction initiatives) improved our cost position and enabled earnings to benefit notably from higher sales. Capacity utilization levels in the majority of our operations remain low. We face decisions about possible further facility consolidation but have chosen to retain excess capacity because we believe that market demand will continue to improve. Our current productive capacity should readily accommodate sales of approximately $4 billion (assuming current sales mix), or levels roughly 20% higher than those of 2010. Until our productive capacity is fully utilized, each additional $100 million of sales (from incremental unit volume) should generate approximately $25 million to $35 million of additional pre tax earnings. Raw Material Costs In many of our businesses, we enjoy a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that many of our competitors generally do not have. Still, our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. Purchasing arrangements vary across the company. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly, our raw material costs generally move with the market. In certain of our businesses, we have longer term purchase contracts with 34 Table of Contents PART II pricing terms that provide stability under reasonable market conditions. However, when commodities experience extreme inflation, vendors do not always honor those contracts. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Conversely, when costs decrease significantly, we generally pass those lower costs through to our customers. The timing of our price increases or decreases is important; we typically experience a lag in recovering higher costs, so we also expect to realize a lag as costs decline. Steel is our principal raw material and at various times in past years we have experienced extreme cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers with selling price adjustments. Significant steel cost increases in 2008 were followed by significant cost decreases in 2009 as global economies weakened. In both cases, we generally adjusted pricing to our customers to reflect the changes in commodity costs. In late 2009 and early 2010, steel costs increased, and again we implemented price increases to recover the majority of the higher costs. By the end of 2010, we were facing further inflation in steel costs, and announced and began implementing additional price increases in early 2011. As a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). Scrap costs increased in 2010, and while market prices for steel rod also increased, those increases did not keep pace with escalating scrap costs. As a result, metal margins within the steel industry (and in our rod producing operation) were lower during 2010. We anticipate further compression in these margins in early 2011 as scrap costs have increased again in recent months. Our other raw materials include woven and non woven fabrics, foam scrap, and chemicals. We have experienced changes in the cost of these materials in recent years, and in most years, have been able to pass them through to our customers. In late 2010 these costs increased, and in early 2011 we announced and began implementing price increases to recover the higher costs. When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We experienced this de contenting effect in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments in recent years. As our customers changed the quantity and mix of components in their finished goods to address steel and chemical inflation, our profit margins were negatively impacted. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of mattress innersprings, boxsprings, and reclining chair mechanisms) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and in certain instances, provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Competition Many of our markets are highly competitive with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. We believe we gain competitive advantage in our global markets through low cost operations, significant internal production of key raw materials, manufacturing expertise 35 Table of Contents PART II and product innovation, higher quality products, extensive customer service capabilities, and financial strength. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering product quality, innovation, and customer service. We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products offshore. In addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. They may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates related to safety and environmental matters. We typically remain price competitive, even versus many foreign manufacturers, as a result of our highly efficient operations, low labor content, vertical integration in steel and wire, and large scale purchasing of raw materials and commodities. However, we have also reacted to foreign competition in certain cases by selectively adjusting prices, and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. We currently operate 10 facilities in China. In late 2007, we filed an antidumping suit related to innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam. We saw a distinct decline in unfair imports during 2008 after the antidumping investigations began. As a result, we regained market share and performance in our Bedding group improved. The investigations were brought to a favorable conclusion in early 2009. The current antidumping duty rates on innersprings from these countries are significant, ranging from 116% to 234%, and should remain in effect at least until early 2014. Imported innersprings from these countries are now supposed to be sold at fair prices, however the duties on certain innersprings are being evaded by various means including shipping the goods through a third country and falsely identifying the country of origin. Leggett, along with several U.S. manufacturers of products with active antidumping or antidumping/countervailing duty orders, formed a coalition and are working with Members of Congress, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection to seek stronger enforcement of existing antidumping and or countervailing duty orders. We experienced a temporary loss of market share during the last half of 2010 as certain of our customers purchased a portion of their innerspring requirements from European suppliers. The opportunity to buy these components at a lower price resulted from a combination of factors that benefited European suppliers in the early summer: i) the weaker Euro; ii) temporarily lower wire costs; and iii) greater excess capacity as a result of economic turmoil in Europe. Because of the slowing of consumer demand for mattresses in the last half of 2010, it took longer for these imported products to be consumed, but by year end, we had regained the majority of the lost volume. 36 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2010 vs. 2009 During 2010, sales from continuing operations increased 10%, reflecting improved market demand in several of our businesses. Full year earnings from continuing operations also increased, from $121 million in 2009 to $184 million in 2010. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2010, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 3,055 Acquisition sales growth 1 % Small divestitures (24 ) (0.7 )% Internal sales increase: Approximate inflation Approximate unit volume increase 327 10.7 % Internal sales increase 327 10.7 % Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 3,359 10.0 % Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 121 Non recurrence of divestiture note write down 7 Non recurrence of bad debt expense associated with a customer bankruptcy 6 Non recurrence of unusual tax items 6 Benefit associated with the sale of a building 8 Lower effective tax rate 16 Other factors, including higher unit volume offset by lower metal margins 20 Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 184 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2009 $ 0.74 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2010 $ 1.16 In 2010, sales from continuing operations increased 10% versus 2009. Demand improved in many of our end markets during the year. The automotive and office furniture markets experienced significant improvement from very depressed demand levels in 2009. Retail fixturing demand was also reasonably strong. Our residential bedding and furniture markets started 2010 strong but weakened in the last half of the year as consumer spending on larger ticket items slowed. 37 Table of Contents PART II Full year earnings from continuing operations increased in 2010, primarily reflecting higher unit volumes, a lower effective tax rate, and the non recurrence of three significant expense items from 2009 (detailed in the table above). These earnings improvements were partially offset by lower metal margins. As a producer of steel rod, we are impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). Scrap costs increased in 2010, and while market prices for steel rod also increased, those increases did not keep pace with escalating scrap costs. As a result, metal margins within the steel industry (and in our rod producing operation) were lower during 2010. LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. We experienced a large swing in the LIFO impact during the past two years. In 2009, significant steel cost decreases resulted in a LIFO benefit of $67 million. In 2010, moderate inflation led to full year LIFO expense of $15 million. The LIFO impact recognized at the corporate level is generally offset each year by FIFO impacts at the segment level. Segment level earnings in 2009 were significantly burdened (primarily in the first half of the year) as we consumed higher cost steel while selling prices decreased. In 2010, segment level earnings benefitted under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs. For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 79. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense was roughly flat with 2009. The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate for 2010 was lower, at 28.1%, versus 39.0% in 2009. In 2010, the tax rate benefitted from the higher level of earnings, changes in the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions, and tentative settlements of tax examinations. During the year, we reached tentative agreement with the IRS on their examination of certain tax credit claims, and recognized tax benefits of $5 million associated with those claims. These benefits were partially offset by incremental taxes resulting from the repatriation of certain foreign earnings. During 2010, we repatriated $108 million of foreign earnings, which resulted in a net tax charge of $5 million. In 2009, the higher tax rate reflected unfavorable tax adjustments resulting from Mexican tax law changes, which caused us to re evaluate our deferred tax assets and liabilities in that jurisdiction. As a result, we recorded a $6 million tax charge to earnings related to 2009 and prior year losses that might expire before they could be utilized to reduce taxable earnings. 38 Table of Contents PART II Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2010 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 94. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 1,747 $ 160 9.1 % Year ended December 31, 2009 1,693 90 5.3 % Increase $ 54 $ 70 % increase 3 % 78 % Internal sales increase 3 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) % Residential Furnishings sales increased in 2010, primarily due to market share gains in our furniture components business. Demand in most of our residential markets was relatively strong during the first half of the year but weakened noticeably in the last half as consumer demand for large ticket items (such as mattress sets and upholstered furniture) slowed. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2009, with the earnings impact from higher unit volumes augmented by pricing discipline, significantly reduced bad debt expense, and a benefit associated with the sale of a building. Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 535 $ 23 4.3 % Year ended December 31, 2009 491 8 1.6 % Increase $ 44 $ 15 % increase 9 % 188 % Internal sales increase 9 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) % Sales increased in 2010 due to relatively strong demand in our Store Fixtures business by value oriented retailers, and improved market demand in Office Furniture Components. EBIT and EBIT margins also increased versus the prior year, largely due to higher sales. 39 Table of Contents PART II Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 725 $ 55 7.6 % Year ended December 31, 2009 647 60 9.3 % Increase (decrease) $ 78 $ (5 ) % increase (decrease) 12 % (8 )% Internal sales increase 16 % Small divestitures (net of acquisitions) (4 )% 2010 sales increased, reflecting steel related price inflation and improved market demand. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2009, as higher sales were more than offset by lower metal margins within the steel industry. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 629 $ 66 10.5 % Year ended December 31, 2009 501 17 3.4 % Increase $ 128 $ 49 % increase 26 % 288 % Internal sales increase 26 % Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) % Sales increased in 2010, reflecting improved demand across all the major businesses in the segment. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus the prior year with the impact of higher sales bolstered by cost reductions. Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $5 million, from a loss of $6 million in 2009 to a loss of $1 million in 2010. This earnings increase was primarily due to the non recurrence of $3 million (net of tax) of environmental charges related to an aluminum property and lower long lived asset and goodwill impairment charges associated with the divestitures (which are now complete). 40 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2009 vs. 2008 During 2009, sales from continuing operations decreased 25%, reflecting a combination of weak market demand, steel related price deflation, and our decision to exit some specific sales with unacceptable margins. In the majority of our global markets, demand stabilized at low levels in early 2009. Despite the significant sales decline, full year earnings from continuing operations decreased only modestly, from $128 million in 2008 to $121 million in 2009. Cost structure improvements and pricing discipline offset nearly all the impact from lower sales. Further details about our consolidated and segment results from continuing operations are discussed below. Consolidated Results (continuing operations) The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2009, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 4,076 Acquisition sales growth 1 % Small divestitures (36 ) (0.9 )% Internal sales decline: Approximate deflation (90 ) (2.2 )% Approximate exited volume (175 ) (4.3 )% Approximate unit volume decline (721 ) (17.7 )% Internal sales decline (986 ) (24.2 )% Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 3,055 (25.1 )% Earnings from continuing operations: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2008 $ 128 Lower restructuring related charges 5 Lower asset impairments 8 Bad debt expense associated with a customer bankruptcy (6 ) Divestiture note write down (7 ) Lower net interest expense 5 Unusual tax items (6 ) Other factors, including lower unit volume offset by cost savings and pricing discipline (6 ) Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 121 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2008 $ 0.73 Earnings Per Share (continuing operations) 2009 $ 0.74 Sales from continuing operations decreased 25% versus 2008, reflecting weak market demand, inflation related price decreases, and our decision to exit specific customer 41 Table of Contents PART II programs with unacceptable profit margins (the largest portion in our Store Fixtures business). Full year earnings from continuing operations also decreased in 2009. The earnings impact from lower unit volume was largely offset by cost reduction initiatives and pricing discipline. Other factors impacting the year over year earnings comparison are presented in the table above. The divestiture note write down (identified in the table) occurred when we learned in 2009 that the aluminum operations divested in July 2008 needed a capital infusion from the buyer due to deterioration in business conditions. This led to a reduction in the value of the note we accepted in 2008 as partial payment for the divesture. Leggett accepted a more subordinate position in the capital structure of the divested operations. LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. We experienced large swings in the LIFO impact in recent years. In 2008, significant steel cost inflation along with moderately higher inventory levels resulted in LIFO expense from continuing operations of $62 million. In 2009, steel cost decreases and lower inventory levels resulted in a LIFO benefit from continuing operations of $67 million. The LIFO impact recognized at the corporate level is generally offset each year by FIFO impacts at the segment level. Segment level earnings in 2008 generally benefited under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs, but in the first half of 2009, were significantly burdened as we consumed higher cost steel while selling prices decreased. For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 79. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense decreased $8 million versus 2008, primarily the result of lower commercial paper borrowings and lower interest rates in 2009. The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate for 2009 was higher, at 39.0%, versus 33.8% in 2008. This increase is primarily due to i) tax adjustments resulting from Mexican tax law changes, and ii) the lower level of earnings and mix among tax jurisdictions. In 2009, tax law changes in Mexico caused us to re evaluate our deferred tax assets and liabilities in that jurisdiction. As a result of our analysis, we recorded a $6 million tax charge to earnings related to 2009 and prior year losses that may expire before they can be utilized to reduce taxable earnings. In 2008, a tax benefit associated with the write off of an acquired companys stock was offset by increased reserves for uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances against deferred tax assets for certain foreign entities. 42 Table of Contents PART II Segment Results (continuing operations) In the following section we discuss 2009 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from continuing operations for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 94. Residential Furnishings (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 1,693 $ 90 5.3 % Year ended December 31, 2008 2,120 151 7.1 % Decrease $ (427 ) $ (61 ) % decrease (20 )% (40 )% Internal sales decrease (19 )% Small divestitures (1 )% Residential Furnishings sales decreased in 2009, reflecting weak market demand and steel related price deflation. Demand in our residential markets was weak throughout 2009 as consumers world wide continued to defer purchases of large ticket items (such as mattress sets and upholstered furniture) that contain our products. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2008, with the earnings impact from significantly lower unit volumes partially offset by cost reductions, pricing discipline, elimination of poorly performing operations, and the absence of 2008s restructuring related and other costs ($18 million). Commercial Fixturing & Components (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 491 $ 8 1.6 % Year ended December 31, 2008 711 14 2.0 % Decrease $ (220 ) $ (6 ) % decrease (31 )% (43 )% Internal sales decrease (31 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) % Sales decreased in 2009 due to our decision in the Store Fixtures business to exit specific customer programs with unacceptable margins, reduced capital spending by retailers, and market softness in Office Furniture Components. EBIT and EBIT margins also decreased versus the prior year, as the impact from lower sales more than offset benefits from cost reductions, prior elimination of poorly performing facilities, and other operating improvements, as well as the absence of 2008s restructuring related costs ($11 million). 43 Table of Contents PART II Industrial Materials (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 647 $ 60 9.3 % Year ended December 31, 2008 966 96 9.9 % Decrease $ (319 ) $ (36 ) % decrease (33 )% (38 )% Internal sales decrease (33 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) % 2009 sales decreased, reflecting weak demand in many of our markets (including bedding, furniture, and automotive) and steel related price deflation. EBIT and EBIT margins also decreased versus 2008, as lower sales more than offset cost reductions. Specialized Products (Dollar amounts in millions) Sales EBIT EBITMargins Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 501 $ 17 3.4 % Year ended December 31, 2008 682 45 6.6 % Decrease $ (181 ) $ (28 ) % decrease (27 )% (62 )% Internal sales decrease (27 )% Acquisitions (net of small divestitures) % Sales decreased in 2009, reflecting weak global demand in our markets. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus the prior year, as the impact from lower sales more than offset benefits from cost reduction initiatives and other operating improvements, as well as the absence of 2008s restructuring related costs ($5 million). Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $13 million, from a loss of $19 million in 2008 to a loss of $6 million in 2009. This earnings increase was primarily due to lower asset impairments and restructuring related charges, partially offset by $3 million (net of tax) of environmental charges related to an aluminum property. 44 Table of Contents PART II LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details, reflecting both continuing and discontinued operations, about our: Uses of cash Cash from operations Debt position and total capitalization We use cash for the following: Finance capital requirements (e.g. productivity, growth and acquisitions) Pay dividends Repurchase our stock Our operations provide most of the cash we require, and debt may also be used to fund a portion of our needs. In 2008, cash proceeds from completed divestitures were an additional significant source of funds. In 2009, we generated our second highest level of cash from operations in our history, at $565 million, which included a significant reduction in working capital as sales contracted. With a slight increase in working capital in 2010 (due to sales growth), operating cash was $363 million, still readily exceeding our annual requirement for capital expenditures and dividends. For 2011, we expect cash flow from operations to again exceed $300 million. We ended 2010 with net debt to net capital of 23.3%, its lowest level since 2004 and well below our long term target of 30% 40%. Page 51 presents a table of the calculation of net debt as a percent of net capital at the end of the past two years. Uses of Cash Finance Capital Requirements Improving returns of the existing asset base will continue to be a key focus. However, cash is available to fund selective growth, both internally (through capital expenditures) and externally (through acquisitions). 45 Table of Contents PART II Capital expenditures include investments we make to maintain, modernize, and expand manufacturing capacity. The chart above shows that capital expenditures have declined in recent years; they should approximate $85 million in 2011. In all of our businesses, we continue to invest in the maintenance of facilities and equipment. However, with the sales volume contraction (versus 2008 levels) and the resulting excess productive capacity across our operations, we have significantly reduced spending on expansion projects in recent years. With the move to role based portfolio management, we changed our long term priorities for allocating capital and this has also impacted capital spending levels. We are actively pursuing disciplined growth within our Grow business units. Expansion capital is predominantly earmarked for these opportunities. Operations designated as Core business units receive capital primarily for productivity enhancements. We are also seeking acquisitions within our growth businesses, and are looking for opportunities to enter new, higher growth markets (carefully screened for sustainable competitive advantage). During the past few years, acquisitions were a lower priority as we were primarily focused on completing the divestitures and improving margins and returns of our existing businesses. As a result of this temporarily lower priority, and more stringent screening criteria, no significant acquisitions were completed in 2008, 2009, and 2010. We have recently turned our focus back toward acquisitions and have begun actively soliciting opportunities while maintaining our screening discipline. We expect acquisitions to contribute modestly to our long term growth. Additional details about acquisitions can be found in Note R to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 118. Pay Dividends With continued improvement in margins and returns, a decrease in capital spending and acquisitions, and the completion of the divestitures, we expect (and since 2008 have had) more available cash to return to shareholders. Higher annual dividends are one means by which that should continue to occur. In 2010 we modestly increased the quarterly dividend, to $.27 per share, and extended to 39 years our record of consecutive annual dividend increases, at an average compound growth rate of 14%. Our targeted dividend payout is approximately 50 60% of net earnings, but has been higher recently and will 46 Table of Contents PART II likely remain above targeted levels in the near term. Maintaining and increasing the dividend remains a high priority. We anticipate spending approximately $155 million on dividends in 2011, roughly the same as in 2010, with expected share repurchases offsetting expected dividend increases. Cash from operations has been, and is expected to continue to be, sufficient to readily fund both capital expenditures and dividends. Repurchase Stock Share repurchases are the other means by which we return cash to shareholders. During the past three years, we repurchased a total of 33 million shares of our stock and reduced outstanding shares by 13%. In 2010, we repurchased over 6 million shares at an average per share price of $21.64 and issued 4 million shares through employee benefit plans (most of these shares were purchased by employees in lieu of cash compensation). We expect to repurchase additional shares in 2011, with the amount of purchases dependent on factors such as general economic conditions, level of demand in our end markets, and the availability of excess cash. Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have been authorized by the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares in 2011. 47 Table of Contents PART II Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Earnings and changes in working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. Meaningful sales and earnings improvement contributed to our 2010 cash from operations, and was partially offset by increased working capital levels associated with those higher sales. Although working capital dollars increased, working capital as a percent of sales decreased slightly from year end 2009 levels. Cash from operations in 2009 benefitted from a $186 million reduction in working capital during that year (that occurred as a result of the economy induced sales contraction). The following table presents key working capital measures at the end of the past two years. Amount (in millions) # Days Outstanding 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change Accounts Receivable, net (1) $ 479 $ 469 $10 52 56 (4 ) Inventory, net (2) $ 435 $ 409 $26 59 62 (3 ) Accounts Payable (3) $ 226 $ 199 $27 31 30 1 (1) The accounts receivable ratio represents the days of sales outstanding calculated as: ending net accounts receivable &divide; (net sales &divide; number of days in the year). (2) The inventory ratio represents days of inventory on hand calculated as: ending net inventory &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). (3) The accounts payable ratio represents the days of payables outstanding calculated as: ending accounts payable &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). Accounts Receivable The dollar amount of accounts receivable increased from year end 2009 levels, primarily due to higher sales. As part of our accounts receivable review process, we evaluate individual customers payment histories, financial health, industry prospects, and current macroeconomic events in 48 Table of Contents PART II determining if outstanding amounts are collectible. In 2010, we incurred $7 million of bad debt expense as compared to $30 million in 2009. The higher expense in 2009 was primarily due to a single customer bankruptcy in the Residential Furnishings segment ($10 million) and the write down of the aluminum segment divestiture note receivable ($11 million) as discussed on page 42. Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) We experienced an increase in our DSO in 2009 as customers slowed payments during the economic downturn. Our DSO decreased in 2010 as our markets began to improve, and we continued to focus on collection efforts to ensure customer accounts were paid on time. We do not believe the decrease in DSO indicates a significant change in credit risk or has material implications on our liquidity, but instead is caused by normal differences (from year to year) in the timing of sales and cash receipts. Inventory The dollar value of our inventories increased from year end 2009 levels, primarily due to inflation in raw material costs. During 2010, we recognized expense of $13 million associated with obsolete and slow moving inventories; in 2009 this expense totaled $16 million. We do not expect significant changes in customer or industry trends that would materially increase the exposure to inventory obsolescence. Days Inventory on Hand (DIO) Our DIO decreased compared to the prior year as our operations continue to focus on optimizing return on assets. Accounts Payable The dollar value of accounts payable increased in 2010 compared to year end 2009, primarily due to inflation in raw material costs and also from our continued efforts to optimize payment terms with our vendors. Days Payable Outstanding (DPO) Our DPO has increased slightly in 2010 as we continue to work with vendors to extend our standard payment terms. Cash from operations in 2008 was strong despite weak market demand in the latter part of that year. Lower working capital (versus the prior year) contributed favorably to operating cash. Fourth quarter production cuts led to lower inventory levels (compared to year end 2007). Accounts receivable also declined primarily due to extremely weak sales late in that year. Working capital levels vary by segment. The Commercial Fixturing & Components segment typically has relatively higher accounts receivable balances due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Fixture & Display group. This business group also generally requires higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of its products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. 49 Table of Contents PART II Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 762 $ 764 $ 774 Average interest rates (1) 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.7 % Average maturities in years (1) 4.7 5.6 6.4 Revolving credit/commercial paper 25 77 Total long term debt 762 789 851 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 192 161 116 Equity 1,524 1,576 1,671 Total capitalization $ 2,478 $ 2,526 $ 2,638 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 522 $ 491 $ 523 Short term Total unused committed credit $ 522 $ 491 $ 523 Current maturities of long term debt $ 2 $ 10 $ 22 Cash and cash equivalents $ 244 $ 260 $ 165 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (2) 5.8 x 4.6 x 3.7 x (1) These calculations include current maturities, but exclude commercial paper to reflect the averages of outstanding debt with scheduled maturities. (2) Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, plus implied interest included in operating leases. Earnings consist principally of income from continuing operations before income taxes, plus fixed charges. The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2010 and 2009, calculated in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. 50 Table of Contents PART II We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows a more meaningful comparison to periods during which cash fluctuates significantly. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2010 2009 Long term debt $ 762 $ 789 Current debt maturities 2 10 Cash and cash equivalents (244 ) (260 ) Net debt $ 520 $ 539 Total capitalization $ 2,478 $ 2,526 Current debt maturities 2 10 Cash and cash equivalents (244 ) (260 ) Net capitalization $ 2,236 $ 2,276 Long term debt to total capitalization 30.8 % 31.2 % Net debt to net capitalization 23.3 % 23.7 % Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) decreased $35 million in 2010. During the year, we reduced our commercial paper borrowings by $25 million and paid off $10 million of other long term debt that came due. In anticipation of long term debt maturing in April 2013, we entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in 2010. The swap contracts manage benchmark interest rate risk associated with $200 million of future debt issuance, and mature in August 2012. The swaps have a weighted average interest rate of 4.0% and hedge the benchmark rate of the future issuance of $200 million of debt. The credit spread over the benchmark bonds will continue to fluctuate until the contracts are settled (either upon an issuance of debt or upon their expiration). For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 119. Short Term Borrowings We can raise cash by issuing up to $600 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $600 million revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of 14 lenders that terminates in 2012. The credit agreement allows us to issue letters of credit up to $250 million. When we issue these letters of credit, our capacity under the agreement, and consequently, our ability to issue commercial paper, is reduced by a corresponding amount. Amounts outstanding related to our commercial paper program were: (Dollar amounts in millions) 2010 2009 Total program authorized $ 600 $ 600 Less: commercial paper outstanding (classified as long term debt) (25 ) Letters of credit issued under the credit agreement (78 ) (84 ) Total program usage (78 ) (109 ) Total program available $ 522 $ 491 51 Table of Contents PART II The average and maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding during 2010 was $99 million and $198 million, respectively. Commercial paper amounts fluctuated during the year due to normal changes in working capital funding requirements. The amounts of letters of credit outstanding throughout the year were not materially different from the amounts outstanding at year end. Based on the information currently available to us, we believe that the participating banks continue to have the ability to meet their obligations under the revolving credit agreement. In the unlikely event that a disruption in the credit market was to become so severe that we were unable to issue commercial paper, we have the contractual right to draw funds directly on the revolving credit agreement. In such event, the cost of borrowing under the revolving credit agreement could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowing. We also maintain an active shelf registration. With anticipated operating cash flows, our commercial paper program, and our expected ability to issue debt through our active shelf, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations, pay dividends, repurchase stock, fund future growth, and repay maturing debt. Accessibility of Cash At December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $244 million primarily invested in money market funds and interest bearing bank accounts. A smaller portion was invested in bank time deposits with original maturities of three months or less. A substantial portion of these funds are held in international accounts and represent undistributed earnings from our foreign operations. The tax rules governing this area are complex. However, subject to constantly changing facts and laws, we believe we could access a significant portion of the cash without material incremental cost. 52 Table of Contents PART II CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual cash obligations and commitments: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total LessThan 1Year 1 3Years 3 5Years MoreThan 5Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt * $ 759 $ 1 $ 201 $ 381 $ 176 Capitalized leases 5 1 3 1 Operating leases 112 34 44 25 9 Purchase obligations ** 278 278 Interest payments *** 161 35 64 43 19 Deferred income taxes 70 70 Other obligations (including pensions and reserves for tax contingencies) 135 7 17 8 103 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,520 $ 356 $ 329 $ 458 $ 377 * The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. ** Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. *** Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2010 at rates in effect at the end of the year. 53 Table of Contents PART II CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur. Critical accounting estimates are those that are: a) subject to uncertainty and change, and b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed below are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements. We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 79. Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Goodwill Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually as of June 30 and as triggering events occur. In the past three years, no impairments have been recorded as a result of the annual impairment reviews. As a result of the deterioration in the economic and financial climate in the fourth quarter 2008, an interim goodwill impairment analysis was performed confirming that estimated fair value exceeded carrying values for all reporting units. In order to assess goodwill for potential impairment, judgment is required to estimate the fair market value of each reporting unit (which is one level below reportable segments) using the combination of a discounted cash flow model and market approach using price to earnings ratios for comparable publicly traded companies with characteristics similar to the reporting unit. The cash flow model contains uncertainties related to the forecast of future results as many outside economic and competitive factors can influence future performance. Margins, sales levels, and discount rates are the most critical estimates in determining enterprise values using the cash flow model. Fair market values for two of the 10 reporting units exceeded book value by approximately 20%. The goodwill associated with these reporting units is $190 million. Both of these reporting units are dependent on business capital spending which has been substantially reduced in the recent economic downturn. Both reporting units exceeded expectations for 2010, and are expected to show further improvement in 2011. If actual performance does not improve and remains at current levels, future goodwill impairments could be possible. The remaining reporting units have fair market values that exceed carrying value by more than 25%, and have goodwill of $740 million. 54 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Goodwill (cont.) The market approach requires judgment to determine the appropriate price to earnings ratio. Ratios are derived from comparable publicly traded companies that operate in the same or similar industry as the reporting unit. Information regarding material assumptions used to determine if a goodwill impairment exists can be found in Note C on page 86. Other Long lived Assets Other long lived assets are tested for recoverability at year end and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For other long lived assets we estimate fair value at the lowest level where cash flows can be measured (usually at a branch level). Impairments of other long lived assets usually occur when major restructuring activities take place, or we decide to discontinue product lines completely. Our impairment assessments have uncertainties because they require estimates of future cash flows to determine if undiscounted cash flows are sufficient to recover carrying values of these assets. For assets where future cash flows are not expected to recover carrying value, fair value is estimated which requires an estimate of market value based upon asset appraisals for like assets. These impairments are very unpredictable, and are difficult to anticipate. Impairments were $2 million in 2010, $3 million in 2009, and $13 million in 2008. We believe that future restructuring and shut down activities should be equal to or less than those in 2010. However this could change if certain product lines or businesses do not meet return expectations. This could cause us to decide to exit a business which could trigger long lived asset impairment. Inventory Reserves We reduce the carrying value of inventories to reflect an estimate of net realizable value for obsolete and slow moving inventory. If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to have no value and are written down completely. If we have more than a one years supply of a product, we value that inventory at net realizable value (what we think we will recover). Our inventory reserve contains uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow moving (i.e. not selling very quickly). Changes in customer behavior and requirements can cause inventory to quickly become obsolete or slow moving. The calculation also uses an estimate of the ultimate recoverability of items identified as slow moving based upon historical experience (65% on average). At December 31, 2010, we had recorded an inventory reserve of $43 million (approximately 8% of FIFO inventories) to account for obsolete inventories. Prior to 2010, additions to inventory reserves averaged $22 million per year. In 2010, additions to reserves decreased to $13 million due to improved inventory optimization in the Residential Furnishings and Commercial Fixturing & Components segments. Approximately two thirds of historical write downs relate to the Commercial Fixturing & Components and Specialized Products segments due to the custom nature of their products. 55 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Inventory Reserves (cont.) We have implemented new inventory optimization processes in many of our businesses that should reduce the impact of write downs in the future. We do not expect any significant changes in customer or industry trends that would increase the exposure to inventory obsolescence. Workers Compensation We are substantially self insured for costs related to workers compensation, and this requires us to estimate the liability associated with this obligation. Our estimates of self insured reserves contain uncertainties regarding the potential amounts we might have to pay (since we are self insured). We consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $13 million annually for costs associated with workers compensation. Average year to year variation over the past five years has been approximately $3 million. At December 31, 2010, we had accrued $42 million to cover future self insurance liabilities. Internal safety statistics indicate improving safety trends in the last two years. Usually, safety statistics are leading indicators of exposure trends. As a result of headcount reductions and improved safety trends, we expect worker compensation costs to remain at current lower levels for the foreseeable future. 56 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Credit Losses For accounts and notes receivable, we estimate a bad debt reserve for the amount that will ultimately be uncollectible. When we become aware of a specific customers potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible. Our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate the amount uncollectible based upon an evaluation of several factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience. Our customers are diverse and many are small to medium sized companies, with some being highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning. A significant change in the financial status of a large customer could impact our estimates. The average annual amount of customer related credit losses was $16 million (less than 1% of annual net sales) over the last three years. At December 31, 2010, our reserves for doubtful accounts totaled $23 million (about 5% of our accounts and notes receivable of $445 million). Weak market demand intensified pressure on highly leveraged customers in some of our industries. In each of 2008 and 2009, we experienced bad debt expense that was approximately $15 million higher than pre 2008 levels. In 2010, bad debt expense returned to more normal levels, however if weak market demand persists, other bankruptcies could be possible. We also recognized an $11 million loss in 2009 related to the Aluminum divestiture note. At December 31, 2010, we had $24 million of notes outstanding, primarily related to divested businesses, and have concluded that no material reserve is required for these notes. 57 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Pension Accounting For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations. The pension liability calculation contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of future benefits paid, which also impacts current year pension expense. Determination of pension expense requires an estimate of expected return on pension assets based upon the mix of investments held (bonds and equities). Other assumptions include rates of compensation increases, withdrawal and mortality rates, and retirement ages. These estimates impact the pension expense or income we recognize and our reported benefit obligations. The discount rates used to calculate the pension liability and pension expense for our most significant plans decreased approximately 50 basis points in 2010 due to lower corporate bond yields. Each 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate increases pension expense by approximately $.4 million and decreases the plans funded status by approximately $7.2 million. The expected return on assets in 2010 held steady at 6.8%, compared to 6.9% in 2009 (after decreasing from 7.9% in 2008). The reduction in the rate during 2009 was primarily driven by a change in asset allocation toward more conservative investments (i.e. bonds). A 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.4 million, but have no effect on the plans funded status. Assuming a long term investment horizon, we do not expect a material change to the return on asset assumption. 58 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. Our tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures related to our various filing positions. Our effective tax rate is also impacted by changes in tax laws, the current mix of earnings by taxing jurisdiction, and the results of current tax audits and assessments. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had $12 million and $28 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount, source, and timing of future taxable income. Valuation allowances are established against future potential tax benefits to reflect the amounts we believe have no more than a 50% probability of being realized. In addition, assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of possible repatriation. Potential changes in tax laws could impact assumptions related to the non repatriation of certain foreign earnings. If all non repatriated earnings were taxed, we would incur additional taxes of approximately $41 million. Tax audits by various taxing authorities are expected to increase as governments continue to look for ways to raise additional revenue. Based upon past experience, we do not expect any major changes to our tax liability as a result of this increased audit activity; however, we could incur additional tax expense if we have audit adjustments higher than recent historical experience. The recovery of net operating losses (NOLs) has been closely evaluated for the likelihood of recovery based upon factors such as the age of losses, viable tax planning strategies, and future taxable earnings expectations. We believe that appropriate valuation allowances have been recorded as necessary. However, if earnings expectations or other assumptions change such that additional valuation allowances are required, we could incur additional tax expense. 59 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Contingencies We evaluate various legal, environmental, and other potential claims against us to determine if an accrual or disclosure of the contingency is appropriate. If it is probable that an ultimate loss will be incurred, we accrue a liability for the estimate of the ultimate loss. Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) contain uncertainties because they are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. We have several environmental clean up activities related to current and closed facilities that mostly involve soil and groundwater contamination. Based upon facts available at this time, we believe reserves are adequate, however cost estimates could change as we determine more about the severity and cost of remediation. 60 Table of Contents PART II CONTINGENCIES Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. NPI Lawsuit On January 18, 2008, National Products, Inc. (NPI) sued Gamber Johnson, LLC (Gamber), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, in Case C08 0049C JLR, in the United States District Court, Western District of Washington, alleging that portions of a Gamber marketing video contained false and misleading statements. NPI and Gamber compete in the market for vehicle computer mounting systems. NPI sought: (a) injunctive relief requiring Gamber to stop using the video and to notify customers; (b) damages for its alleged lost profits; and (c) disgorgement of Gambers profits in an unspecified amount. Although part of the claims were dismissed by the Court before and during trial, a jury, on April 12, 2010, found four statements in the video were false and deliberate and awarded $10 million in disgorgement damages against Gamber. On August 16, the Court: (a) reduced the jury verdict to approximately $0.5 million; (b) granted NPI attorney fees and costs in an amount to be determined; and (c) granted an injunction requiring Gamber to notify its distributors and resellers of the verdict. The Court subsequently awarded NPI $2.0 million in attorneys fees and costs. We believe that Gamber has valid bases upon which the appellate court could overturn the verdict and the award of attorney fees and costs. We intend to vigorously pursue an appeal. NPI has also filed an appeal. We established an accrual for this suit in an amount we believe is probable. Also, we believe that it is probable that at least part of the verdict, attorneys fees and costs will be covered by insurance, but that coverage is subject to the insurance companys reservation of rights. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit On August 10, 2010, a shareholder derivative suit was filed by the New England Carpenters Pension Fund in the Circuit Court of Jasper County, Missouri as Case No. 10AO CC00284. The suit is substantially similar to a prior suit filed by the same plaintiff, in the same court, on February 5, 2009. The prior suit was dismissed without prejudice based on its failure to make demand on the Companys Board and shareholders. As before, the plaintiff has not made such demand. The new suit was purportedly brought on the Companys behalf, naming it as a nominal defendant, and certain current and former officers and directors as individual defendants including David S. Haffner, Karl G. Glassman, Matthew C. Flanigan, Ernest C. Jett, Harry M. Cornell, Jr., Felix E. Wright, Robert Ted Enloe, III, Richard T. Fisher, Judy C. Odom, Maurice E. Purnell, Jr., Ralph W. Clark and Michael A. Glauber. The plaintiff alleges, among other things, that the individual defendants: breached their fiduciary duties; backdated and received backdated stock options violating the 61 Table of Contents PART II companys stock plans; caused or allowed the Company to issue false and misleading financial statements and proxy statements; sold Company stock while possessing material non public information; committed gross mismanagement; wasted corporate assets; committed fraud; violated the Missouri Securities Act; and were unjustly enriched. The plaintiff is seeking, among other things: unspecified monetary damages against the individual defendants; certain equitable and other relief relating to the profits from the alleged improper conduct; the adoption of certain Company corporate governance proposals; the imposition of a constructive trust over the defendants stock options and proceeds; punitive damages; the rescission of certain unexercised options; and the reimbursement of litigation costs. The plaintiff is not seeking monetary relief from the Company. The Company has director and officer liability insurance in force subject to customary limits and exclusions. The Company and the individual defendants filed motions to dismiss the suit in late October, asserting: the plaintiff failed to make demand on the Companys Board and shareholders as required by Missouri law, and, consistent with the courts ruling in the prior suit, this failure to make demand should not be excused; the plaintiff is not a representative shareholder; the suit is based on a statistical analysis of stock option grants and Company stock prices that the Company believes is flawed; the plaintiff failed to state a substantive claim; the common law fraud claim was not pled with sufficient particularity; and the statute of limitations has expired on the fraud claim and all the alleged challenged grants except the December 30, 2005 grant. As to this grant, the motions to dismiss advised the Court that it was made under the Companys Deferred Compensation Program, which (i) provided that options would be dated on the last business day of December, and (ii) was filed with the SEC on December 2, 2005 setting out the pricing mechanism well before the grant date. The hearing on the motions to dismiss is scheduled for March 15, 2011. We expect that the outcome of this suit will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. Antitrust Lawsuits Beginning in August 2010, a series of civil lawsuits was initiated in several U.S. federal courts alleging that competitors of the Companys carpet underlay division and other manufacturers of polyurethane foam products had engaged in price fixing in violation of U.S. antitrust laws. To date, over 40 cases have been filed on behalf of purchasers of polyurethane foam products against over 20 defendants. The Company has been named as a defendant in six cases; five of which have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio under the name In re: Polyurethane Foam Antitrust Litigation, Case No. 1:10 MD 02196. The first case in which the Company was named as a party: Martin Furniture & Bedding, Inc. v. FXI Foamex Innovations, Inc., et al., Case No. 5:10 cv 00178 (Western District of North Carolina) was instituted on November 15, 2010, and is also expected to be transferred. In the suits to which the Company is a party, the plaintiffs, on behalf of the class of purchasers, seek three times the amount of unspecified damages allegedly suffered as a result of alleged overcharges in the price of polyurethane foam products during the period 62 Table of Contents PART II 1979 to the present in one case, and from at least 2001 to the present in the other five cases. Each plaintiff also seeks attorneys fees, pre judgment and post judgment interest, court costs, and injunctive relief against future violations. We expect the plaintiffs to file an amended complaint in the consolidated case on or before February 28, 2011. The Company denies all of the allegations and will vigorously defend itself. This contingency is subject to many uncertainties. Therefore, based on the information available to date, we cannot estimate the amount or range of potential loss, if any. At this time, we do not believe that it is probable that the outcome will have a material effect on the Companys financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS We adopted new accounting guidance in 2010 as discussed in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 83. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has also issued accounting guidance effective for future periods (that we have not yet adopted), but we do not believe this new guidance will have a material impact on our future financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) Interest Rates The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars. The fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its carrying value by $6.0 at December 31, 2010, and less than its carrying value by $71.1 at December 31, 2009. The increase in the fair market value of the Companys debt is primarily due to the decrease in credit spreads over risk free rates as compared to the prior year end. The fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a Bloomberg secondary market rate, as of December 31, 2010 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs under its medium term note program. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Scheduled Maturity Date Long term debt as of December 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter 2010 2009 Principal fixed rate debt $ $ $ 200.0 $ 180.0 $ 200.0 $ 150.0 $ 730.0 $ 730.0 Average interest rate % % 4.70 % 4.65 % 5.00 % 4.40 % 4.71 % 4.72 % Principal variable rate debt 0.5 0.5 19.9 20.9 31.0 Average interest rate 0.50 % 0.50 % % % % 0.56 % 0.55 % 0.52 % Miscellaneous debt* 13.5 38.4 Total debt 764.4 799.4 Less: current maturities (2.2 ) (10.1 ) Total long term debt $ 762.2 $ 789.3 63 Table of Contents PART II * Includes $0 and $25 of commercial paper in 2010 and 2009, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2012. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It is the Companys policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and net investment hedges is provided in Note S on page 119 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. Investment in Foreign Subsidiaries The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries, including those held for sale, at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2010 2009 European Currencies $ 316.4 $ 324.8 Canadian Dollar 235.1 236.3 Chinese Renminbi 208.3 157.9 Mexican Peso 36.2 38.4 Other 60.3 63.2 Total $ 856.3 $ 820.6 
 
