Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2011 HIGHLIGHTS Demand improved in certain of our markets during 2011, with automotive and office furniture leading the way. In contrast, stagnant demand negatively impacted our major residential markets. Many consumers continued to postpone spending on larger ticket items such as bedding and furniture in the face of ongoing economic weakness. Sales growth in 2011 was driven primarily by factors that bring little incremental earnings. The main revenue catalyst was raw material related price inflation, but currency and a change in sales at our steel mill (from intra segment to trade) also contributed to the year over year increase. Across the remainder of the company as a whole, unit volume was up slightly. Earnings decreased in 2011, largely due to restructuring related charges associated with the decision to close manufacturing facilities in certain businesses facing persistently weak market demand. With concerns about weak markets, we continued to closely monitor working capital levels, and ended the year with working capital as a percent of annualized sales well below our target. Operating cash for the full year once again exceeded the amount required to fund capital expenditures and dividends. In August, we raised the quarterly dividend to $.28 per share and extended to 40 years our record of consecutive annual dividend increases at a 14% compound annual growth rate. We also repurchased 10 million shares of our stock during 2011. Our financial profile remains strong. We ended 2011 with net debt to net capital below our long term targeted range and over $500 million available under our existing commercial paper program and revolver facility. The revolving credit agreement was renewed in 2011, with a five year term ending in 2016. Late in the year, we announced our plan to purchase Western Pneumatic Tube, a leading provider to the aerospace industry of integral components for critical aircraft systems. This acquisition aligns extremely well with our strategy to seek businesses with secure, leading positions in growing, profitable, attractive markets. We completed the acquisition in early 2012. We assess our overall performance by comparing our Total Shareholder Return (TSR), on a rolling three year basis, to that of peer companies. We target TSR in the top one third of the S&P 500 over the long term. For the three years ended December 31, 2011, we generated TSR of 21% per year on average. That places us in the top 38% of the S&P 500, just shy of our top one third goal. These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. 28 Table of Contents PART II INTRODUCTION Total Shareholder Return Total Shareholder Return (TSR), relative to peer companies, is the key financial measure that we use to assess long term performance. TSR is driven by the change in our share price and the dividends we pay [TSR (Change in Stock Price + Dividends) / Beginning Stock Price]. We seek to achieve TSR in the top one third of the S&P 500 over the long term through a balanced approach that employs all four TSR sources: revenue growth, margin expansion, dividends, and share repurchases. We monitor our TSR performance (relative to the S&P 500) on a rolling three year basis. For the three year measurement period that ended December 31, 2011, we generated TSR of 21% per year on average, while the S&P 500 index generated average TSR of 14% per year. That places us in the top 38% of the S&P 500, just shy of our top one third goal. Our incentive programs reward return generation. Senior executives participate in a TSR based incentive program (based on our performance compared to the performance of a group of approximately 320 peers). Business unit bonuses emphasize the achievement of higher returns on the assets under the units direct control. Customers We serve a broad suite of customers, with our largest customer representing less than 6% of our sales. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized; they include most manufacturers of furniture and bedding, a variety of other manufacturers, and many major retailers. Major Factors That Impact Our Business Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are market demand, raw material cost trends, and competition. Market Demand Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales. Demand improved in certain of our markets during 2011, with automotive and office furniture leading the way. In contrast, stagnant demand negatively impacted our major residential markets. Many consumers continued to postpone spending on larger ticket items such as bedding and furniture in the face of ongoing economic weakness. 29 Table of Contents PART II It is our belief that the U.S. economy will face headwinds for longer than we previously expected. We are no longer willing to wait for an economic recovery to bolster earnings, and as a result, we have taken further steps to improve ongoing profitability. We have closed some production facilities and reduced overhead costs. While these activities improve our cost structure, capacity utilization levels in the majority of our operations remain low. Our current productive capacity should readily accommodate sales of over $4 billion (assuming current sales mix). Until our spare capacity is fully utilized, each additional $100 million of sales from incremental unit volume is expected to generate approximately $25 million to $35 million of additional pre tax earnings. Raw Material Costs In many of our businesses, we enjoy a cost advantage from buying large quantities of raw materials. This purchasing leverage is a benefit that many of our competitors generally do not have. Still, our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. We typically have short term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly, our raw material costs generally move with the market. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Conversely, when costs decrease significantly, we generally pass those lower costs through to our customers. The timing of our price increases or decreases is important; we typically experience a lag in recovering higher costs, so we also expect to realize a lag as costs decline. Steel is our principal raw material and at various times in past years we have experienced extreme cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers with selling price adjustments. In late 2009 and early 2010, steel costs increased, and we raised our selling prices to recover the majority of the higher costs. By the end of 2010, we were facing further inflation in steel costs, and we implemented additional price increases in early 2011. By mid year, market prices for certain types of steel had begun to decrease. The margin pressure we experienced in the last half of 2011 resulted in part from lowering our selling prices (selectively) in advance of our average cost of steel declining, in order to maintain market share and minimize deterioration in product mix. As a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). Scrap costs increased in 2010, and while market prices for steel rod also increased, those increases did not keep pace with escalating scrap costs. As a result, metal margins within the steel industry (and in our rod producing operation) were lower during 2010. Scrap costs increased further in early 2011 but market prices for steel rod also increased. Metal margins for the full year 2011 were slightly improved. Our other raw materials include woven and non woven fabrics, foam scrap, and chemicals. We have experienced changes in the cost of these materials in recent years, and in most years, have been able to pass them through to our customers. In late 2010 these costs began increasing, and in early 2011, we implemented price increases to recover the majority of the higher costs. 30 Table of Contents PART II When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We experienced this de contenting effect in our Residential Furnishings segment in the last half of 2011 (however selective selling price reductions helped contain this activity). As our customers changed the quantity and mix of components in their finished goods to address commodity inflation, our profit margins were negatively impacted. We must continue to find ways to assist our customers in improving the functionality and reducing the cost of their products, while providing higher margin and profit contribution for our operations. Competition Many of our markets are highly competitive with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering better product quality, innovation, and customer service. We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products offshore. In addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. They may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. We typically remain price competitive, even versus many foreign manufacturers, as a result of our highly efficient operations, low labor content, vertical integration in steel and wire, and large scale purchasing of raw materials and commodities. However, we have also reacted to foreign competition in certain cases by selectively adjusting prices, and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. We experienced a temporary loss of market share during the last half of 2010 as certain of our bedding customers purchased a portion of their innerspring requirements from European suppliers. The opportunity to buy these components at a lower price resulted from a combination of factors: i) the weaker Euro; ii) temporarily lower wire costs; and iii) greater excess capacity as a result of economic turmoil in Europe. By the end of 2010, we had regained the majority of the lost volume. The margin pressure we experienced in the last half of 2011 resulted in part from price competition in other of our businesses as we reduced prices (selectively) to maintain market share in light of depressed industry volume. Premium non innerspring mattresses (those that have either a foam or air core) have experienced rapid growth in the U.S. bedding market in recent years. While still a relatively small portion of the total market in units (approximately 10%), these products represent a much larger portion of the total market in dollars (approximately 25% 30%) due to their higher average selling prices. We expect these products to continue to grow. Some of our traditional bedding customers are beginning to offer mattresses that combine an innerspring core with top layers comprised of specialty foam and gel. These hybrid products allow our bedding customers to address a consumer preference for the feel of a specialty mattress and the characteristics of an innerspring. In late 2007, we filed an antidumping suit related to innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam. We saw a distinct decline in unfair imports during 2008 after 31 Table of Contents PART II the antidumping investigations began. As a result, we regained market share and performance in our Bedding group improved. The investigations were brought to a favorable conclusion in early 2009. The current antidumping duty rates on innersprings from these countries are significant, ranging from 116% to 234%, and should remain in effect at least until early 2014. Imported innersprings from these countries are now supposed to be sold at fair prices, however the duties on certain innersprings are being evaded by various means including shipping the goods through a third country and falsely identifying the country of origin. Leggett, along with several U.S. manufacturers of products with active antidumping or antidumping/countervailing duty orders, formed a coalition and are working with Members of Congress, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection to seek stronger enforcement of existing antidumping and or countervailing duty orders. 2011 Restructuring Plan In December 2011, we approved a restructuring plan to reduce our overhead costs and improve ongoing profitability. The activities primarily entailed the closure of four underperforming facilities. We incurred a $37 million pre tax (largely non cash) charge in the 4th quarter of 2011 primarily related to this plan, which included $31 million of long lived asset impairments and $6 million of other restructuring related costs. We expect an additional $2 million of restructuring costs in 2012, with these plant closures complete by mid year. Earnings should benefit in 2012 from the cost savings associated with the 2011 Restructuring Plan and other restructuring activity initiated in the latter part of 2011. Our 2012 forecast anticipates an approximate $15 $20 million pre tax earnings benefit ($.07 $.10 per share) from these activities. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures We divested seven businesses as a part of the strategic realignment we announced in late 2007. The bulk of this activity (five of the seven divestitures) was complete by the end of 2008. In 2009, we sold the Coated Fabrics business unit, and in 2010 we divested the Storage Products business unit. Results of operations for these businesses are classified as discontinued operations in our financial statements. For more information about discontinued operations and the divestitures, see Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 84. 32 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2011 vs. 2010 Sales growth in 2011 was driven primarily by factors that bring little incremental earnings. The main revenue catalyst was raw material related price inflation, but currency and a change in sales at our steel mill (from intra segment to trade) also contributed to the year over year increase. Across the remainder of the company as a whole, unit volume was up slightly. Full year earnings decreased, from $177 million in 2010 to $153 million in 2011 primarily from higher restructuring related costs. Further details about our consolidated and segment results are discussed below. Consolidated Results The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings during 2011, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales: Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 3,359 Acquisition sales growth 3 % Small divestitures (1 ) % Internal sales increase: Approximate inflation and currency 159 4.7 % Approximate unit volume increase 116 3.5 % Internal sales increase 275 8.2 % Year ended December 31, 2011 $ 3,636 8.2 % Net earnings attributable to Leggett & Platt: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 177 Higher restructuring related costs (23 ) Lower effective tax rate 6 Other factors, including slightly higher unit volume offset by higher selling and administrative, and other costs (7 ) Year ended December 31, 2011 $ 153 Earnings Per Share 2010 $ 1.15 Earnings Per Share 2011 $ 1.04 Sales grew 8% in 2011, largely from inflation and currency rate changes. Unit volumes grew 3% primarily due to a shift in the mix of sales at our steel mill (from intra segment to trade). Across the bulk of our businesses, in aggregate, market demand increased slightly. Demand improved in certain of our markets during 2011, with automotive and office furniture leading the way. In contrast, stagnant demand negatively impacted our major residential markets. Many consumers continued to postpone spending on larger ticket items such as bedding and furniture in the face of ongoing economic weakness. 33 Table of Contents PART II Earnings decreased in 2011, largely due to restructuring related costs associated with the decision (in the fourth quarter) to close manufacturing facilities in certain businesses facing persistently weak market demand. Other factors, including slightly higher unit volume, a lower effective tax rate, and higher selling, administrative, and other costs essentially offset during the year. LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. In both 2011 and 2010, moderate inflation led to full year LIFO expense ($14 million in 2011 and $15 million in 2010). For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 79. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense in 2011 was roughly flat with 2010. The 2011 consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate of 24.2% was lower than the 28.1% incurred in 2010. Several factors contributed to the reduction, including changes in our mix of earnings among taxing jurisdictions, one time benefits from tax planning strategies, and tentative agreement reached with the IRS regarding the examination of our 2004 through 2008 tax years. As a result of the tax planning strategies and audit, we recognized tax benefits of $5 million in 2011. This is comparable to a tax benefit realized in 2010 related to the IRS examination in that year of certain tax credit claims, which was substantially offset by incremental taxes from the repatriation of certain foreign earnings in that year. We also experienced other less significant, discrete tax items (both favorable and unfavorable) that substantially offset for the year. 34 Table of Contents PART II Segment Results In the following section we discuss 2011 sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 91. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2011 2010 Change in Sales % ChangeSame LocationSales (1) $ % Sales Residential Furnishings $ 1,837 $ 1,747 $ 90 5 % 5 % Commercial Fixturing & Components 507 535 (28 ) (5 %) (5 %) Industrial Materials 857 725 132 18 % 18 % Specialized Products 736 629 107 17 % 17 % Total 3,937 3,636 301 Intersegment sales elimination (301 ) (277 ) (24 ) External sales $ 3,636 $ 3,359 $ 277 8 % 8 % 2011 2010 Change in EBIT EBIT Margins (2) $ % 2011 2010 EBIT Residential Furnishings $ 138 $ 160 $ (22 ) (14 %) 7.5 % 9.1 % Commercial Fixturing & Components 16 23 (7 ) (30 %) 3.1 % 4.3 % Industrial Materials 28 55 (27 ) (49 %) 3.3 % 7.6 % Specialized Products 77 66 11 17 % 10.5 % 10.5 % Intersegment eliminations & other (7 ) (1 ) (6 ) Change in LIFO reserve (14 ) (15 ) 1 Total $ 238 $ 288 $ (50 ) (17 %) 6.5 % 8.6 % (1) This is the change in sales not attributable to acquisitions or divestitures. These are sales that come from the same plants and facilities that we owned one year earlier. (2) Segment margins are calculated on total sales. Overall company margin is calculated on external sales. Residential Furnishings Residential Furnishings sales increased in 2011, primarily from inflation and currency, which generated little profit. Unit volume in the segment was flat. Demand in most of our residential markets continued to be soft as consumers postponed spending on larger ticket items such as bedding and furniture in the face of an ongoing weak economy. Full year unit volumes were essentially flat in our U.S. Spring business but declined in International Spring and Furniture Hardware (from pronounced market weakness mid year). The only business in the segment that posted meaningful unit growth was our Adjustable Bed business, where unit volumes grew 44% for the full year. 35 Table of Contents PART II EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2010, primarily due to higher restructuring related costs (of $9 million), less favorable sales mix, inflation, and other operating cost increases. We initiated restructuring activities in the last half of 2011 in an effort to improve ongoing profitability, and part of that activity occurred in Residential Furnishings. We consolidated four operations in the segment, including two carpet underlay plants, a Canadian spring facility, and a fabric coating business. We expect segment margins to benefit in 2012 from the cost savings associated with these activities. Commercial Fixturing & Components Sales decreased in 2011, largely from lower demand in our Store Fixtures business, as some of the large, value oriented retailers significantly curtailed both new store construction and remodeling activity during the year. In contrast, market demand continued to improve in Office Furniture Components as that business posted strong growth for the full year. EBIT and EBIT margins also decreased versus the prior year, primarily due to lower sales. Our efforts to improve ongoing profitability resulted in the decision late in 2011 to consolidate one of our six remaining store fixture locations. The majority of the sales from this operation will be supplied through two of our remaining facilities. In addition, consistent with our stated plan to continually assess our portfolio and exit non core businesses, we divested our small, U.K. based point of purchase display operation in January 2012. Industrial Materials 2011 sales increased, reflecting steel related price inflation and higher trade sales from our steel mill, both of which generated little incremental profit. Full year unit volumes declined in both Wire Drawing and Steel Tubing, reflecting weak bedding, furniture, and store fixtures end markets. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2010, mainly from higher restructuring related costs (of $23 million). EBIT margins also decreased during the year as a result of a change in sales from intra segment to trade at our steel rod mill. These trade sales have positive earnings contribution in addition to covering overhead costs, and have kept the mill running at full capacity while internal demand for steel rod has been down. However, this sales shift is dilutive to margins since it increases our reported sales while preserving comparable EBIT levels. Restructuring activities in late 2011 involved the closure of two facilities in the segment. We closed one of our six domestic wire drawing operations and consolidated that volume into two of the remaining plants. We also announced the closing of a wire forming operation that was a supplier of coated wire dishwasher racks into the domestic appliance industry. These activities should improve capacity utilization within the segment in 2012 and benefit future earnings and margins. 36 Table of Contents PART II Specialized Products In Specialized Products, sales increased in 2011, primarily reflecting improved demand across the major businesses in the segment. Changes in currency exchange rates also added to year over year sales growth. Automotive growth continues to be driven by the recovery in global industry production levels. EBIT increased versus the prior year with the impact of higher sales partially offset by higher restructuring related costs (of $7 million), raw material cost inflation, and currency impacts. EBIT margins were flat. Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, was not material in either year (2010 or 2011). 37 Table of Contents PART II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2010 vs. 2009 During 2010, sales increased 10%, reflecting improved market demand in several of our businesses. Full year earnings also increased, from $121 million in 2009 to $184 million in 2010. Further details about our consolidated and segment results are discussed below. Consolidated Results The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings during 2010, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) Amount % Net sales: Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 3,055 Acquisition sales growth 1 % Small divestitures (24 ) (0.7 )% Internal sales increase: Approximate inflation Approximate unit volume increase 327 10.7 % Internal sales increase 327 10.7 % Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 3,359 10.0 % Net earnings attributable to Leggett & Platt: (Dollar amounts, net of tax) Year ended December 31, 2009 $ 112 Non recurrence of divestiture note write down 7 Non recurrence of bad debt expense associated with a customer bankruptcy 6 Non recurrence of unusual tax items 6 Benefit associated with the sale of a building 8 Lower effective tax rate 16 Other factors, including higher unit volume offset by lower metal margins 22 Year ended December 31, 2010 $ 177 Earnings Per Share 2009 $ 0.70 Earnings Per Share 2010 $ 1.15 In 2010, sales increased 10% versus 2009. Demand improved in many of our end markets during the year. The automotive and office furniture markets experienced significant improvement from very depressed demand levels in 2009. Retail fixturing demand was also reasonably strong. Our residential bedding and furniture markets started 2010 strong but weakened in the last half of the year as consumer spending on larger ticket items slowed. Full year earnings increased in 2010, primarily reflecting higher unit volumes, a lower effective tax rate, and the non recurrence of three significant expense items from 2009 38 Table of Contents PART II (detailed in the table above). These earnings improvements were partially offset by lower metal margins. As a producer of steel rod, we are impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). Scrap costs increased in 2010, and while market prices for steel rod also increased, those increases did not keep pace with escalating scrap costs. As a result, metal margins within the steel industry (and in our rod producing operation) were lower during 2010. LIFO Impact All of our segments use the first in, first out (FIFO) method for valuing inventory. In our consolidated financials, an adjustment is made at the corporate level (i.e. outside the segments) to convert about 60% of our inventories to the last in, first out (LIFO) method. These are primarily our domestic, steel related inventories. We experienced a large swing in the LIFO impact in recent years. In 2009, significant steel cost decreases resulted in a LIFO benefit of $67 million. In 2010, moderate inflation led to full year LIFO expense of $15 million. The LIFO impact recognized at the corporate level is generally offset each year by FIFO impacts at the segment level. Segment level earnings in 2009 were significantly burdened (primarily in the first half of the year) as we consumed higher cost steel while selling prices decreased. In 2010, segment level earnings benefitted under the FIFO method from the effect of rising commodity costs. For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 79. Interest and Income Taxes Net interest expense in 2010 was roughly flat with 2009. The consolidated worldwide effective income tax rate for 2010 was lower, at 28.1%, versus 39.0% in 2009. In 2010, the tax rate benefitted from the higher level of earnings, changes in the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions, and tentative settlements of tax examinations. During 2010, we reached tentative agreement with the IRS on their examination of certain tax credit claims, and recognized tax benefits of $5 million associated with those claims. These benefits were partially offset by incremental taxes resulting from the repatriation of certain foreign earnings. During 2010, we repatriated $108 million of foreign earnings, which resulted in a net tax charge of $5 million. In 2009, the higher tax rate reflected unfavorable tax adjustments resulting from Mexican tax law changes, which caused us to re evaluate our deferred tax assets and liabilities in that jurisdiction. As a result, we recorded a $6 million tax charge to earnings related to 2009 and prior year losses that might expire before they could be utilized to reduce taxable earnings. 39 Table of Contents PART II Segment Results In the following section we discuss 2010 sales and EBIT for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 91. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2010 2009 Change in Sales % ChangeSame LocationSales (1) $ % Sales Residential Furnishings $ 1,747 $ 1,693 $ 54 3 % 3 % Commercial Fixturing & Components 535 491 44 9 % 9 % Industrial Materials 725 647 78 12 % 16 % Specialized Products 629 501 128 26 % 26 % Total 3,636 3,332 304 Intersegment sales elimination (277 ) (277 ) External sales $ 3,359 $ 3,055 $ 304 10 % 11 % 2010 2009 Change in EBIT EBIT Margins (2) $ % 2010 2009 EBIT Residential Furnishings $ 160 $ 90 $ 70 78 % 9.1 % 5.3 % Commercial Fixturing & Components 23 8 15 188 % 4.3 % 1.6 % Industrial Materials 55 60 (5 ) (8 %) 7.6 % 9.3 % Specialized Products 66 17 49 288 % 10.5 % 3.4 % Intersegment eliminations & other (1 ) (12 ) 11 Change in LIFO reserve (15 ) 67 (82 ) Total $ 288 $ 230 $ 58 25 % 8.6 % 7.5 % (1) This is the change in sales not attributable to acquisitions or divestitures. These are sales that come from the same plants and facilities that we owned one year earlier. (2) Segment margins are calculated on total sales. Overall company margin is calculated on external sales. Residential Furnishings Residential Furnishings sales increased in 2010, primarily due to market share gains in our furniture components business. Demand in most of our residential markets was relatively strong during the first half of the year but weakened noticeably in the last half as consumer demand for large ticket items (such as mattress sets and upholstered furniture) slowed. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus 2009, with the earnings impact from higher unit volumes augmented by pricing discipline, significantly reduced bad debt expense, and a benefit associated with the sale of a building. 40 Table of Contents PART II Commercial Fixturing & Components Sales increased in 2010 due to relatively strong demand in our Store Fixtures business by value oriented retailers, and improved market demand in Office Furniture Components. EBIT and EBIT margins also increased versus the prior year, largely due to higher sales. Industrial Materials 2010 sales increased, reflecting steel related price inflation and improved market demand. EBIT and EBIT margins decreased versus 2009, as higher sales were more than offset by lower metal margins within the steel industry. Specialized Products Sales increased in 2010, reflecting improved demand across all the major businesses in the segment. EBIT and EBIT margins increased versus the prior year with the impact of higher sales bolstered by cost reductions. Results from Discontinued Operations Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, increased $5 million, from a loss of $6 million in 2009 to a loss of $1 million in 2010. This earnings increase was primarily due to the non recurrence of $3 million (net of tax) of environmental charges related to an aluminum property and lower long lived asset and goodwill impairment charges associated with the divestitures (which were complete by late 2010). 41 Table of Contents PART II LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION In this section, we provide details, reflecting both continuing and discontinued operations, about our: Uses of cash Cash from operations Working capital trends Debt position and total capitalization We use cash for the following: Finance capital requirements (e.g. productivity, growth and acquisitions) Pay dividends Repurchase our stock Our operations provide most of the cash we require, but debt may also be used to fund a portion of our needs. For more than 20 years, our operations have provided more than sufficient cash to fund both capital expenditures and dividend payments. In 2009, we generated the second highest level of cash from operations in our history, at $565 million, which included a significant reduction in working capital as sales contracted. With a slight increase in working capital in 2010 (due to sales growth), operating cash was $363 million. In 2011, cash flow from operations decreased to $329 million, but still readily exceeded our annual requirement for capital expenditures and dividends. We expect 2012 cash flow from operations to again exceed $300 million. We ended 2011 with net debt to net capital of 29%, below the conservative end of our long term targeted range of 30% 40%. Page 49 presents a table of the calculation of net debt as a percent of net capital at the end of the past two years. Uses of Cash Finance Capital Requirements Improving returns of the existing asset base will continue to be a key focus. However, cash is available to fund selective growth, both internally (through capital expenditures) and externally (through acquisitions). 42 Table of Contents PART II Capital expenditures include investments we make to maintain, modernize, and expand manufacturing capacity. The chart above shows that capital expenditures have been relatively stable in recent years, although well below levels of the previous decade. We expect capital expenditures to approximate $100 million in 2012. In all of our businesses, we continue to invest in the maintenance of facilities and equipment. However, with excess productive capacity across our operations (from continued low demand levels), we have reduced spending on expansion projects. The anticipated increase in 2012 relates primarily to specific new automotive programs that we have been awarded, and that should contribute to earnings and cash flow beginning in 2013. In 2008, we began assigning each Business Unit a specific role (e.g. Grow, Core, Fix, Divest) within our portfolio of businesses. This changed our long term priorities for allocating capital and reduced capital spending levels. We actively pursue disciplined growth within our Grow business units and earmark expansion capital for these opportunities. Operations designated as Core business units receive capital primarily for productivity enhancements. Our strategic, long term, 4 5% annual growth objective envisions periodic acquisitions. We are seeking acquisitions within our growth businesses, and are looking for opportunities to enter new, higher growth markets (carefully screened for sustainable competitive advantage). During the past few years, acquisitions were a lower priority as we primarily focused on completing the divestitures and improving margins and returns of our existing businesses. As a result, no significant acquisitions were completed in 2009, 2010, and 2011. We recently turned our focus onto acquisitions and have begun actively soliciting opportunities while maintaining our screening discipline. On December 20, 2011, we announced our plan to purchase, for $188 million, Western Pneumatic Tube, a leading provider to the aerospace industry of integral components for critical aircraft systems. With 2011 sales of $57 million, these operations will constitute a new, stand alone business unit within our Industrial Materials segment. This acquisition aligns extremely well with our strategy to seek businesses with secure, leading positions in growing, profitable, attractive markets and that make sense to be a part of Leggett & Platt. We completed the acquisition on January 12, 2012. Additional details about acquisitions can be found in Note R to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 115. 43 Table of Contents PART II Pay Dividends We expect to continue returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. In 2011 we modestly increased the quarterly dividend, to $.28 per share, and extended to 40 years our record of consecutive annual dividend increases, at an average compound growth rate of 14%. Our targeted dividend payout is approximately 50 60% of net earnings, but actual payout has been higher recently and will likely remain above targeted levels in the near term. Maintaining and increasing the dividend remains a high priority. We anticipate spending approximately $160 million on dividends in 2012. Cash from operations has been, and is expected to continue to be, more than sufficient to readily fund both capital expenditures and dividends. 44 Table of Contents PART II Repurchase Stock During the past three years, we repurchased a total of 27 million shares of our stock (and issued 11 million shares through employee benefit and stock purchase plans), reducing outstanding shares by 11%. In 2011, we repurchased 10 million shares at an average per share price of $22.86. During the year, we issued 3 million shares through employee benefit plans (including shares that were purchased by employees in lieu of cash compensation). For the past few years, we have made few acquisitions; instead, we used excess cash (including divestiture proceeds) largely to repurchase shares. With the acquisition of Western Pneumatic Tube, the amount of stock repurchased during 2012 will likely be significantly lower. Although no specific repurchase schedule has been established, we have been authorized by the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares in 2012. 45 Table of Contents PART II Cash from Operations Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Earnings and changes in working capital levels are the two broad factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations. As shown in the chart below (and discussed in the paragraph that follows), most of the variability in cash from operations in recent years has come from changes in working capital. In 2011, cash from operations decreased primarily due to lower earnings. The decrease in 2010 operating cash (versus 2009) was due to the change in working capital levels (as shown in the chart above). Cash from operations in 2009 benefitted from a $186 million reduction in working capital that occurred as a result of the economy induced sales contraction. The following table presents key working capital measures at the end of the past two years. Amount (in millions) # Days Outstanding 2011 2010 Change 2011 2010 Change Accounts Receivable, net (1) $ 504 $ 479 $25 51 52 (1 ) Inventory, net (2) $ 441 $ 435 $ 6 54 59 (5 ) Accounts Payable (3) $ 257 $ 226 $31 32 31 1 (1) The accounts receivable ratio represents the days of sales outstanding calculated as: ending net accounts receivable &divide; (net sales &divide; number of days in the year). (2) The inventory ratio represents days of inventory on hand calculated as: ending net inventory &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). (3) The accounts payable ratio represents the days of payables outstanding calculated as: ending accounts payable &divide; (cost of goods sold &divide; number of days in the year). 46 Table of Contents PART II Accounts Receivable and Days Sales Outstanding (DSO): The dollar amount of accounts receivable increased from year end 2010 levels, primarily due to inflation driven sales increases. We continue to focus on collection efforts to ensure customer accounts are paid on time. As part of our accounts receivable review process, we evaluate individual customers payment histories, financial health, industry prospects, and current macroeconomic events in determining if outstanding amounts are collectible. In 2011, we incurred $9 million of bad debt expense as compared to $7 million in 2010. Changes in the DSO reflected in the table above are consistent with our historical range, and are not indicative of changes in payment trends or credit worthiness of customers. Instead, DSO fluctuates from year to year with normal differences in the timing of sales and cash receipts. Inventory and Days Inventory on Hand (DIO): Although the unit volume of our inventories was down from year end 2010 levels, the dollar value of inventories increased slightly due to inflation in raw material costs. During 2011, we recognized expense of $10 million associated with obsolete and slow moving inventories; in 2010 this expense totaled $13 million. We do not expect significant changes in customer or industry trends that would materially increase the exposure to inventory obsolescence. Our DIO typically fluctuates within a reasonably narrow range as a result of differences in the timing of sales, production levels, and inventory purchases. Our DIO decreased compared to the prior year due to lower unit volumes of inventory. This improvement reflects a continued focus on optimizing returns and a reduction of inventory in response to persistent demand weakness in certain markets. Accounts Payable and Days Payable Outstanding (DPO): The dollar value of accounts payable increased in 2011 primarily due to inflation in raw material costs. We actively strive to optimize payment terms with our vendors, and over the last few years, have increased our DPO by approximately ten days. Changes in the DPO reflected in the table above are the result of normal fluctuation in our operating activity. Working capital levels vary by segment. The Commercial Fixturing & Components segment typically has relatively higher accounts receivable balances due to the longer credit terms required to service certain customers of the Fixture & Display group. This business group also generally requires higher inventory investments due to the custom nature of its products, longer manufacturing lead times (in certain cases), and the needs of many customers to receive large volumes of product within short periods of time. 47 Table of Contents PART II Capitalization This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Long term debt outstanding: Scheduled maturities $ 763 $ 762 $ 764 Average interest rates (1) 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.6 % Average maturities in years (1) 3.8 4.7 5.6 Revolving credit/commercial paper 70 25 Total long term debt 833 762 789 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 188 192 161 Equity 1,308 1,524 1,576 Total capitalization $ 2,329 $ 2,478 $ 2,526 Unused committed credit: Long term $ 530 $ 522 $ 491 Short term Total unused committed credit $ 530 $ 522 $ 491 Current maturities of long term debt $ 3 $ 2 $ 10 Cash and cash equivalents $ 236 $ 244 $ 260 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (2) 4.8 x 5.8 x 4.6 x (1) These calculations include current maturities, but exclude commercial paper to reflect the averages of outstanding debt with scheduled maturities. (2) Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest, plus implied interest included in operating leases. Earnings consist principally of income from continuing operations before income taxes, plus fixed charges. The next table shows the percent of long term debt to total capitalization at December 31, 2011 and 2010, calculated in two ways: Long term debt to total capitalization as reported in the previous table. Long term debt to total capitalization each reduced by total cash and increased by current maturities of long term debt. 48 Table of Contents PART II We believe that adjusting this measure for cash and current maturities allows a more meaningful comparison to periods during which cash fluctuates significantly. We use these adjusted measures to monitor our financial leverage. (Dollar amounts in millions) 2011 2010 Long term debt $ 833 $ 762 Current debt maturities 3 2 Cash and cash equivalents (236 ) (244 ) Net debt $ 600 $ 520 Total capitalization $ 2,329 $ 2,478 Current debt maturities 3 2 Cash and cash equivalents (236 ) (244 ) Net capitalization $ 2,096 $ 2,236 Long term debt to total capitalization 35.8 % 30.8 % Net debt to net capitalization 28.6 % 23.3 % Total debt (which includes long term debt and current debt maturities) increased $72 million in 2011. During the year, we increased our commercial paper borrowings by $70 million. In anticipation of long term debt maturing in April 2013, we entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in 2010. The swap contracts manage benchmark interest rate risk associated with $200 million of potential future debt issuance, and mature in August 2012. The swaps have a weighted average interest rate of 4.0%. They do not hedge the credit spread over treasuries, our credit worthiness, or the market price of credit related to any future debt issuances. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117. Short Term Borrowings We can raise cash by issuing up to $600 million in commercial paper through a program that is backed by a $600 million revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of 13 lenders. This agreement was renewed in 2011, with a five year term ending in 2016. The credit agreement allows us to issue letters of credit up to $250 million. When we issue letters of credit in this manner, our capacity under the agreement, and consequently, our ability to issue commercial paper, is reduced by a corresponding amount. Amounts outstanding related to our commercial paper program were: (Dollar amounts in millions) 2011 2010 Total program authorized $ 600 $ 600 Commercial paper outstanding (classified as long term debt) (70 ) Letters of credit issued under the credit agreement (78 ) Total program usage (70 ) (78 ) Total program available $ 530 $ 522 49 Table of Contents PART II The average and maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding during 2011 was $118 million and $195 million, respectively. During the fourth quarter, the average and maximum amounts outstanding were $131 million and $174 million respectively. Commercial paper amounts fluctuated during the year due to normal changes in working capital funding requirements. At year end, we had no letters of credit outstanding under the credit agreement, but we had $74 million of stand by letters of credit outside the agreement to take advantage of more attractive fee pricing. On January 10, 2012, we increased the amount of commercial paper outstanding to $341 million. These proceeds were used primarily to finance the acquisition of Western Pneumatic Tube (cash purchase price of $188 million), but also for ordinary working capital needs and other general purposes. With anticipated operating cash flows, our commercial paper program, and our expected ability to issue debt in the capital markets, we believe we have sufficient funds available to support our ongoing operations, pay dividends, fund future growth, repurchase stock, and repay maturing debt. Accessibility of Cash At December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $236 million primarily invested in interest bearing bank accounts and in bank time deposits with original maturities of three months or less. A substantial portion of these funds are held in the international accounts of our foreign operations. Though we do not rely on this foreign cash as a source of funds to support our ongoing domestic liquidity needs, we believe we could bring most of this cash back to the U.S. over a period of two to three years without material cost. However, if we had to bring all the foreign cash back immediately, we could incur incremental taxes of up to $53 million. In 2010, we brought back $121 million of foreign cash at an incremental tax cost of $5 million. In 2011, we brought back an additional $89 million through payments on intercompany loans at no added tax cost. 50 Table of Contents PART II CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our future contractual cash obligations and commitments at December 31, 2011: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total LessThan 1Year 1 3Years 3 5Years MoreThan 5Years (Dollar amounts in millions) Long term debt &sup1; $ 829 $ 1 $ 381 $ 280 $ 167 Capitalized leases 7 2 3 1 1 Operating leases 104 31 40 23 10 Purchase obligations &sup2; 255 255 Interest payments &sup3; 127 36 54 25 12 Deferred income taxes 58 58 Other obligations (including acquisitions, pensions, and reserves for tax contingencies) 328 195 18 8 107 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,708 $ 520 $ 496 $ 337 $ 355 &sup1; The long term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. &sup2; Purchase obligations primarily include open short term (30 120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities. &sup3; Interest payments are calculated on debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 at rates in effect at the end of the year. 51 Table of Contents PART II CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur. Critical accounting estimates are those that are: a) subject to uncertainty and change, and b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed below are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements. We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 79. Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Goodwill Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually as of June 30 and as triggering events occur. In the past three years, no impairments have been recorded as a result of the annual impairment reviews. In order to assess goodwill for potential impairment, judgment is required to estimate the fair market value of each reporting unit (which is one level below reportable segments) using the combination of a discounted cash flow model and market approach using price to earnings ratios for comparable publicly traded companies with characteristics similar to the reporting unit. The cash flow model contains uncertainties related to the forecast of future results as many outside economic and competitive factors can influence future performance. Margins, sales levels, and discount rates are the most critical estimates in determining enterprise values using the cash flow model. Fair market values for one of the 10 reporting units (Fixture & Display) exceeded book value by approximately 15%. The goodwill associated with this reporting unit is $112 million, and is dependent on capital spending by retailers on both new stores and remodeling of existing stores. Retailer activity was moderately lower in 2011. The Fixture & Display reporting unit did not meet expectations for 2011, but is expected to recover to forecasted earnings levels over the next two years. If actual performance does not improve and remains at current levels, future goodwill impairments could be possible. The remaining reporting units have fair market values that exceed carrying value by more than 30%, and have goodwill of $815 million. 52 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Goodwill (cont.) The market approach requires judgment to determine the appropriate price to earnings ratio. Ratios are derived from comparable publicly traded companies that operate in the same or similar industry as the reporting unit. Information regarding material assumptions used to determine if a goodwill impairment exists can be found in Note C on page 86. Other Long lived Assets Other long lived assets are tested for recoverability at year end and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For other long lived assets we estimate fair value at the lowest level where cash flows can be measured (usually at a branch level). Impairments of other long lived assets usually occur when major restructuring activities take place, or we decide to discontinue product lines completely. Our impairment assessments have uncertainties because they require estimates of future cash flows to determine if undiscounted cash flows are sufficient to recover carrying values of these assets. For assets where future cash flows are not expected to recover carrying value, fair value is estimated which requires an estimate of market value based upon asset appraisals for like assets. These impairments are unpredictable. Impairments were $35 million in 2011, $2 million in 2010, and $3 million in 2009. The 2011 impairments were largely the result of lowered future business expectations at several underperforming locations that resulted in the decision to exit some unprofitable lines of business. Prior forecasts assumed a recovery in business levels (primarily housing related industries) that did not materialize. We have several operations that are dependent on the housing and retail industries that could also experience future impairments if these operations cash flows do not improve from current levels. Inventory Reserves We reduce the carrying value of inventories to reflect an estimate of net realizable value for obsolete and slow moving inventory. Our inventory reserve contains uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow moving (i.e. not selling very quickly). At December 31, 2011, the reserve for obsolete and slow moving inventory was $39 million (approximately 7% of FIFO inventories). 53 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Inventory Reserves (cont.) If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to have no value and are written down completely. If we have more than a one years supply of a product, we value that inventory at net realizable value (what we think we will recover). Changes in customer behavior and requirements can cause inventory to quickly become obsolete or slow moving. The calculation also uses an estimate of the ultimate recoverability of items identified as slow moving based upon historical experience (65% on average). Additions to inventory reserves in 2011 were $10 million, which was comparable to the previous year. These additions in 2011 were incurred generally among all segments and considered to be a normal level of obsolescence. We incurred write downs of $2 million related to the 2011 restructuring plan. Workers Compensation We are substantially self insured for costs related to workers compensation, and this requires us to estimate the liability associated with this obligation. Our estimates of self insured reserves contain uncertainties regarding the potential amounts we might have to pay (since we are self insured). We consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $11 million annually for costs associated with workers compensation. Average year to year variation over the past five years has been approximately $2 million. At December 31, 2011, we had accrued $37 million to cover future self insurance liabilities. Internal safety statistics and cost trends have improved in the last several years. We expect worker compensation costs to remain at current lower levels for the foreseeable future. Credit Losses For accounts and notes receivable, we estimate a bad debt reserve for the amount that will ultimately be uncollectible. When we become aware of a specific customers potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible. Our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate the amount uncollectible based upon an evaluation of several factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience. A significant change in the financial status of a large customer could impact our estimates. The average annual amount of customer related credit losses was $11 million (less than 1% of annual net sales) over the last three years. At December 31, 2011, our reserves for doubtful accounts totaled $23 million (about 5% of our accounts and customer related notes receivable of $467 million). 54 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Credit Losses (cont.) Our customers are diverse and many are small to medium sized companies, with some being highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning. In 2011 and 2010, bad debt expense averaged $8 million, which is a return to more normal levels compared to 2009. We did not experience any significant individual customer bankruptcies during the past two years. We believe the financial health of our major customers is stable, but some are highly leveraged, and this could cause circumstances to change in the future. We recognized an $11 million loss in 2009 related to the Aluminum divestiture note. At December 31, 2011, we had $20 million of non customer notes outstanding, primarily related to divested businesses, and have recorded reserves of $3 million for these notes. Most of these notes are held by highly leveraged entities, which could result in the need for additional reserves in the future. Pension Accounting For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations. The pension liability calculation contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of future benefits paid, which also impacts current year pension expense. Determination of pension expense requires an estimate of expected return on pension assets based upon the mix of investments held (bonds and equities). The discount rates used to calculate the pension liability and pension expense for our most significant plans decreased approximately 85 basis points in 2011 due to lower corporate bond yields. Each 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate increases pension expense by $.4 million and increases the plans benefit obligation by $8.3 million. 55 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Pension Accounting (cont.) Other assumptions include rates of compensation increases, withdrawal and mortality rates, and retirement ages. These estimates impact the pension expense or income we recognize and our reported benefit obligations. The expected return on assets in 2011 decreased to 6.7%, compared to 6.8% in 2010 and 6.9% in 2009. A 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.5 million, but have no effect on the plans funded status. Assuming a long term investment horizon, we do not expect a material change to the return on asset assumption. Income Taxes In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. We adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. Our tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures related to our various filing positions. Our effective tax rate is also impacted by changes in tax laws, the current mix of earnings by taxing jurisdiction, and the results of current tax audits and assessments. Potential changes in tax laws could impact assumptions related to the non repatriation of certain foreign earnings. If all non repatriated earnings were taxed, we would incur additional taxes of approximately $53 million. Tax audits by various taxing authorities are expected to increase as governments continue to look for ways to raise additional revenue. Based upon past experience, we do not expect any major changes to our tax liability as a result of this increased audit activity; however, we could incur additional tax expense if we have audit adjustments higher than recent historical experience. 56 Table of Contents PART II Description Judgments and Uncertainties Effect if Actual ResultsDiffer From Assumptions Income Taxes (cont.) At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had $14 million and $13 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet related to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount, source, and timing of future taxable income. Valuation allowances are established against future potential tax benefits to reflect the amounts we believe have no more than a 50% probability of being realized. In addition, assumptions have been made regarding the non repatriation of earnings from certain subsidiaries. Those assumptions may change in the future, thereby affecting future period results for the tax impact of possible repatriation. The recovery of net operating losses (NOLs) has been closely evaluated for the likelihood of recovery based upon factors such as the age of losses, viable tax planning strategies, and future taxable earnings expectations. We believe that appropriate valuation allowances have been recorded as necessary. However, if earnings expectations or other assumptions change such that additional valuation allowances are required, we could incur additional tax expense. Contingencies We evaluate various legal, environmental, and other potential claims against us to determine if an accrual or disclosure of the contingency is appropriate. If it is probable that an ultimate loss will be incurred, we accrue a liability for the reasonable estimate of the ultimate loss. Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) contain uncertainties because they are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. We have several environmental clean up activities related to current and closed facilities that mostly involve soil and groundwater contamination. Based upon facts available at this time, we believe reserves are adequate, however cost estimates could change as we determine more about the severity and cost of remediation. Legal contingencies are related to numerous lawsuits and claims described in Note T on page 119. Over the past five years, the largest annual cost for litigation claims was $8 million (excluding legal fees). Historically, actual settlements have been reasonably close to original loss estimates. 57 Table of Contents PART II CONTINGENCIES Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) are based on our assessment of the likelihood that the expenses will actually occur, and our estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally very unpredictable. NPI Lawsuit On January 18, 2008, National Products, Inc. (NPI) sued Gamber Johnson, LLC (Gamber), our wholly owned subsidiary, in Case C08 0049C JLR, in the United States District Court, Western District of Washington, alleging that portions of a Gamber marketing video contained false and misleading statements. NPI and Gamber compete in the market for vehicle computer mounting systems. NPI sought: (a) injunctive relief requiring Gamber to stop using the video and to notify customers; (b) damages for its alleged lost profits; and (c) disgorgement of Gambers profits in an unspecified amount. Although part of the claims were dismissed by the Court before and during trial, a jury, on April 12, 2010, found four statements in the video were false and deliberate and awarded $10 million in disgorgement damages against Gamber. On August 16, 2010, the Court: (a) reduced the jury verdict to approximately $0.5 million; (b) granted NPI attorney fees and costs in an amount to be determined; and (c) granted an injunction requiring Gamber to notify its distributors and resellers of the verdict. The Court subsequently awarded NPI $2.0 million in attorney fees and costs. On September 17, 2010, NPI filed an appeal to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Gamber also filed an appeal. On September 7, 2011, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial courts decision. Each party filed a request for rehearing en banc (a rehearing by the full court), which was denied on October 24, 2011. On November 22, 2011, our insurance carrier paid the judgment and attorney fee awards in full (roughly $2.5 million). Therefore, this matter is resolved. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit On August 10, 2010, a shareholder derivative suit was filed by the New England Carpenters Pension Fund in the Circuit Court of Jasper County, Missouri as Case No. 10AO CC00284 (2010 Suit). The 2010 Suit was substantially similar to a prior suit filed by the same plaintiff, in the same court, on February 5, 2009 (2009 Suit). The 2009 Suit was dismissed without prejudice based on the plaintiffs failure to make demand on our Board and shareholders. As before, the plaintiff did not make such demand. On April 6, 2011, the 2010 Suit was dismissed without prejudice. On May 12, 2011, the plaintiff filed an appeal to the Missouri Court of Appeals. The briefing process began January 2012. We do not expect a ruling from the Court of Appeals for several months. The 2010 Suit was purportedly brought on our behalf, naming us as a nominal defendant, and certain current and former officers and directors as individual defendants including David S. Haffner, Karl G. Glassman, Matthew C. Flanigan, Ernest C. Jett, Harry M. Cornell, Jr., Felix E. Wright, Robert Ted Enloe, III, Richard T. Fisher, Judy C. Odom, Maurice E. Purnell, Jr., Ralph W. Clark and Michael A. Glauber. 58 Table of Contents PART II The plaintiff alleged, among other things, that the individual defendants: breached their fiduciary duties; backdated and received backdated stock options violating our stock plans; caused or allowed us to issue false and misleading financial statements and proxy statements; sold our stock while possessing material non public information; committed gross mismanagement; wasted corporate assets; committed fraud; violated the Missouri Securities Act; and were unjustly enriched. The plaintiff was seeking, among other things: unspecified monetary damages against the individual defendants; certain equitable and other relief relating to the profits from the alleged improper conduct; the adoption of certain corporate governance proposals; the imposition of a constructive trust over the defendants stock options and proceeds; punitive damages; the rescission of certain unexercised options; and the reimbursement of litigation costs. The plaintiff was not seeking monetary relief from us. We have director and officer liability insurance in force subject to customary limits and exclusions. We and the individual defendants filed motions to dismiss the 2010 Suit in late October 2010, asserting: the plaintiff failed to make demand on our Board and shareholders as required by Missouri law, and, consistent with the Courts ruling in the 2009 Suit, this failure to make demand should not be excused; the plaintiff is not a representative shareholder; the 2010 Suit was based on a statistical analysis of stock option grants and our stock prices that we believe was flawed; the plaintiff failed to state a substantive claim; the common law fraud claim was not pled with sufficient particularity; and the statute of limitations has expired on the fraud claim and all the alleged challenged grants except the December 30, 2005 grant. As to this grant, the motions to dismiss advised the Court that it was made under our Deferred Compensation Program, which (i) provided that options would be dated on the last business day of December, and (ii) was filed with the SEC on December 2, 2005 setting out the pricing mechanism well before the grant date. We do not expect that the outcome of this matter will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. Antitrust Lawsuits Beginning in August 2010, a series of civil lawsuits was initiated in several U.S. federal courts and in Canada against over 20 defendants alleging that competitors of our carpet underlay business unit and other manufacturers of polyurethane foam products had engaged in price fixing in violation of U.S. and Canadian antitrust laws. A number of these lawsuits have been voluntarily dismissed without prejudice. Of the U.S. cases remaining, we have been named as a defendant in (a) three direct purchaser class action cases (the first on November 15, 2010) and a consolidated amended class action complaint filed on February 28, 2011 on behalf of a class of all direct purchasers of polyurethane foam products; (b) an indirect purchaser class consolidated amended complaint filed on March 21, 2011 (although the underlying lawsuits do not name us as a defendant); and an indirect purchaser class action case filed on May 23, 2011; and (c) eleven individual direct purchaser cases, one filed March 22, 2011, another amended August 24, 2011 to remove class allegations, one amended August 25, 2011 to name us as a defendant, four others filed October 31, 2011, one filed November 4, 2011 and three filed 59 Table of Contents PART II December 6, 19 and 30, respectively. All of the pending U.S. cases in which we have been named as a defendant, have been filed in or transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio under the name In re: Polyurethane Foam Antitrust Litigation, Case No. 1:10 MD 02196. In the U.S. actions, the plaintiffs, on behalf of themselves and or a class of purchasers, seek three times the amount of unspecified damages allegedly suffered as a result of alleged overcharges in the price of polyurethane foam products from at least 1999 to the present. Each plaintiff also seeks attorney fees, pre judgment and post judgment interest, court costs, and injunctive relief against future violations. On April 15 and May 6, 2011, we filed motions to dismiss the U.S. direct purchaser and indirect purchaser class actions in the consolidated case in Ohio, for failure to state a legally valid claim. On July 19, 2011, the Ohio Court denied the motions to dismiss. Discovery is underway in the U.S. actions. We have been named in two Canadian class action cases (for direct and indirect purchasers of polyurethane foam products), as amended on November 2, 2011, both under the name Hi Neighbor Floor Covering Co. Limited and Hickory Springs Manufacturing Company, et.al. in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Windsor), Court File Nos. CV 10 15164 and CV 11 17279. In each of the Canadian cases, the plaintiffs, on behalf of themselves and or a class of purchasers, seek from over 15 defendants restitution of the amount allegedly overcharged, general and special damages in the amount of $100 million, punitive damages of $10 million, pre judgment and post judgment interest, and the costs of the action. We have not yet filed our defenses in the Canadian actions. We deny all of the allegations in these actions and will vigorously defend ourselves. This contingency is subject to many uncertainties. Therefore, based on the information available to date, we cannot estimate the amount or range of potential loss, if any. Brazilian Value Added Tax Matters On December 22, 2011, the Brazilian Finance Ministry, Federal Revenue Office issued a notice of violation against our wholly owned subsidiary, Leggett & Platt do Brasil Ltda. (L&P Brazil) in the amount of approximately $4 million, under Case No. 10855.724660/2011 43. The Brazilian Revenue Office claimed that for the period beginning November 2006 and continuing through December 2007, L&P Brazil used an incorrect tax rate for the collection and payment of value added tax primarily on the sale of mattress innersprings in Brazil. The Brazilian Revenue Office has communicated that it will likely expand the audit to the tax years 2008 through January 2011. As a result, it is possible that we may receive an additional notice of violation on the same subject matter. L&P Brazil responded to the notice of violation on January 25, 2012 denying the violation. L&P Brazil is also party to a proceeding involving the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil where the State of Sao Paulo, on April 16, 2009, issued a Notice of Tax Assessment and Imposition of Fine to L&P Brazil seeking approximately $3.3 million for the tax years 2006 and 2007. The State of Sao Paulo argued that L&P Brazil was using an incorrect tax rate for the collection and payment of value added tax on mattress innerspring sales in the State of Sao Paulo. On September 29, 2010, the Court of Tax and Fees of the State of Sao Paulo ruled in favor of L&P Brazil nullifying the tax assessment. The State filed an appeal, which is currently pending. 60 Table of Contents PART II We deny all of the allegations in these actions. We believe that we have valid bases upon which to contest such actions and will vigorously defend ourselves. However, these contingencies are subject to many uncertainties. At this time, we do not believe it is probable that this matter will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. Patent Infringement Claim On January 24, 2012, in a case in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, the jury entered a verdict against us in the amount of $5 million based upon an allegation by plaintiff that we infringed three patents on an automatic stapling machine and on methods used to assemble box springs. This action was originally filed on October 4, 2010, as case number CV10 07416 RGK (SSx) under the caption Imaginal Systematic, LLC v. Leggett & Platt, Incorporated; Simmons Bedding Company; and Does 1 through 10, inclusive. Leggett is contractually obligated to defend and indemnify Simmons Bedding Company against a claim for infringement. At trial, the plaintiff alleged damages of $16.2 million. We disputed each patents validity; the methodology used to calculate damages; and denied that we infringed any patent. The plaintiff has also requested pre judgment interest and royalties for future use of the machines and attorneys fees and costs. We intend to object to all of these claims. We intend to appeal the case to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals and believe we have valid bases upon which to appeal. We do not believe that it is probable that the judgment will be upheld on appeal in its current form. We also filed reexamination proceedings in the Patent Office (Case Nos. 95/001,543 filed February 11, 2011; 95/001,546 and 95/001,547 filed February 16, 2011) challenging the validity of each patent at issue. The Patent Office ruled in our favor on the pertinent claims of two of the three patents. Imaginal may appeal those rulings. With respect to the third patent, we intend to appeal the Patent Offices decision upholding validity; however, due to a change made to all of the machines we do not believe that the machines are currently using the feature alleged to have infringed the third patent. At this time, we do not believe it is probable that this matter will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating cash flows or results of operations. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS We adopted new accounting guidance in 2011 as discussed in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 84. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has also issued accounting guidance effective for future periods (that we have not yet adopted), but we do not believe this new guidance will have a material impact on our future financial statements. 61 Table of Contents PART II Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. (Unaudited) (Dollar amounts in millions) Interest Rates The table below provides information about the Companys debt obligations sensitive to changes in interest rates. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars. The fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its carrying value by $29.2 at December 31, 2011, and greater than its carrying value by $6.0 at December 31, 2010. The increase in the fair market value of the Companys debt is primarily due to the decrease in credit spreads over risk free rates as compared to the prior year end. The fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using a Bloomberg secondary market rate, as of December 31, 2011 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated spread over such Treasury securities representing the Companys interest costs under its medium term note program. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount. Scheduled Maturity Date Long term debt as of December 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter 2011 2010 Principal fixed rate debt $ $ 200.0 $ 180.0 $ 200.0 $ $ 150.0 $ 730.0 $ 730.0 Average interest rate % 4.70 % 4.65 % 5.00 % % 4.40 % 4.71 % 4.71 % Principal variable rate debt 0.5 2.3 17.6 20.4 20.9 Average interest rate 0.24 % % % % 0.29 % 0.31 % 0.30 % 0.55 % Miscellaneous debt* 85.4 13.5 Total debt 835.8 764.4 Less: current maturities (2.5 ) (2.2 ) Total long term debt $ 833.3 $ 762.2 * Includes $70.4 and $0 of commercial paper in 2011 and 2010, respectively, supported by a $600 revolving credit agreement which terminates in 2016. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company is subject to market and financial risks related to interest rates, foreign currency, and commodities. In the normal course of business, the Company utilizes derivative instruments (individually or in combinations) to reduce or eliminate these risks. The Company seeks to use derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment; however, some instruments may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. It is the Companys policy not to speculate using derivative instruments. Information regarding cash flow hedges and fair value hedges is provided in Note S on page 117 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference into this section. 62 Table of Contents PART II Investment in Foreign Subsidiaries The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long term commitment, and does not hedge translation exposures. The investment in a foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The Companys net investment (i.e., total assets less total liabilities subject to translation exposure) in foreign subsidiaries at December 31 is as follows: Functional Currency 2011 2010 European Currencies $ 298.4 $ 316.4 Chinese Renminbi 249.9 208.3 Canadian Dollar 217.9 235.1 Mexican Peso 31.1 36.2 Other 61.9 60.3 Total $ 859.2 $ 856.3 
 
