FILE:NUE/NUE-8K-20061206160423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 6, 2006, the board of directors elected Bernard L. M. Kasriel to Nucor's board of directors effective January 1, 2007. The board of directors also elected Mr. Kasriel to the Compensation and Executive Development Committee and the Governance and Nominating Committee. A copy of the news release announcing his election is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 6, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA, December 6, 2006 - - - Nucor Corporation (NYSE: NUE) is pleased to announce that Bernard L. M. Kasriel has been elected to the board of directors effective January 1, 2007. Mr. Kasriel, 60, formerly served as the vice chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of Paris-based Lafarge S. A. Lafarge is a leading global building materials provider of cement, concrete, roofing and gypsum products.
Mr. Kasriel is a graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique engineering school in Paris and received his MBA from Harvard Business School and INSEAD business school. He joins the Nucor board with more than thirty-five years of industry experience. Mr. Kasriel joined Lafarge in 1977 as vice president. He became managing director of Lafarge in 1987, vice chairman and chief operating officer in 1995, and vice chairman and chief executive officer in 2003. Mr. Kasriel serves on the boards of Lafarge, L'Oral, Arkema and Sonoco Products Company.
"Bernard's international manufacturing experience will be a great asset to the board of directors and the company," said Dan DiMicco, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Nucor. "We are pleased to welcome him to our team."
Nucor and affiliates are manufacturers of steel products, with operations in nineteen states. Products produced are: carbon and alloy steel - in bars, beams, sheet and plate; steel joists and joist girders; steel deck; cold finished steel; steel fasteners; metal building systems; and light gauge steel framing. Nucor is the largest recycler in the United States.


