FILE:NUE/NUE-8K-20070907140002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Effective September 6, 2007, Raymond J. Milchovich, a member of Nucor's board of directors, resigned to have more time available to fulfill other commitments. A copy of the news release announcing his resignation is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(c) Effective September 30, 2007, Nucor's Board of Directors appointed John J. Ferriola Nucor's Chief Operating Officer of Steelmaking Operations. Mr. Ferriola has been an Executive Vice President of Nucor since January 2002 and was a Vice President from 1996 to 2001. He was General Manager of Nucor Steel, Crawfordsville, Indiana from 1998 to 2001; General Manager of Nucor Steel, Norfolk, Nebraska from 1995 to 1998; General Manager of Vulcraft, Grapeland, Texas in 1995; and Manager of Maintenance and Engineering at Nucor Steel, Jewett, Texas from 1992 to 1995. A copy of the news release announcing his appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 7, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA, September 7, 2007Nucor Corporation (NYSE: NUE) announced that Raymond J. Milchovich has resigned from its board of directors.
In a letter dated September 6, 2007, Mr. Milchovich informed the Board that he was resigning at the earliest mutually acceptable date due to other increasing personal and professional demands on his time. Mr. Milchovich serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler Ltd. (Nasdaq: FWLT). Mr. Milchovich stated in his letter, "This is a decision upon which I have spent considerable time because of the admiration that I have for Nucor, its Management Team, its Board, and all of its team members worldwide. I have truly enjoyed my tenure as a Board member and will miss the opportunity to serve with other members of the Board and management. Nucor is a world class company led and operated by a dedicated world class team of people."
"It is with regret that we accept Ray's resignation," said Dan DiMicco, Nucor's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "He has been an outstanding director over the past five years. His guidance, experience and independent judgment have played an important role in the success of Nucor, and we will miss his leadership and active participation on the Board. We thank Ray for his service and wish him and his family the best."
Nucor and affiliates are manufacturers of steel products, with operating facilities primarily in the U.S. and Canada. Products produced include: carbon and alloy steelin bars, beams, sheet and plate; steel joists and joist girders; steel deck; fabricated concrete reinforcing steel; cold finished steel; steel fasteners; metal building systems; light gauge steel framing; steel grating and expanded metal; and wire and wire mesh. Nucor is North America's largest recycler.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA, September 6, 2007The board of directors of Nucor Corporation (NYSE: NUE), recognizing the need to build its senior management team in light of the company's significant growth, has elected John Ferriola Chief Operating Officer of Steelmaking Operations effective September 30, 2007. The company also announced a series of executive promotions as part of the move.
Ferriola, who had been Executive Vice President in charge of the company's sheet, plate and beam operations, will assume direct responsibility over all of the company's steelmaking operations and report to Dan DiMicco, Nucor's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
"Nucor has grown to the point where the position of chief operating officer makes sense," DiMicco said. "With John focused on operations, I'll be able to focus even more of my energy on domestic and global strategy, emerging technologies, trade and manufacturing policy  all critical for our next phase of growth at Nucor."
In 1999, Nucor had 7,500 employees and $4.2 billion in annual sales. Today, the company has more than 16,000 employees and had $14.8 billion in sales in 2006.
Ferriola, 55, joined Nucor in 1991 as manager of maintenance and engineering at the company's Jewett, Texas, bar mill. He served as general manager at three Nucor facilities, in Grapeland, Texas, Norfolk, Nebraska, and Crawfordsville, Indiana, before joining the corporate office as executive vice president in 2002.
"Placing our steelmaking operations under John's leadership is a great move for us," DiMicco continued. "John has done a tremendous job growing several critical steelmaking operations and entering new markets. In addition, his promotion allows us to move two exceptional division leaders into critical roles in the corporate office."
Ladd Hall, 50, Vice President and General Manager of Nucor's Berkeley County, South Carolina, sheet and beam mills, has been promoted to Executive Vice President of flat rolled products. Joe Stratman, 50, Vice President and General Manager of beam manufacturer Nucor-Yamato Steel Company, has been promoted to Executive Vice President in charge of beam and plate products. They, along with Mike Parrish, Executive Vice President in charge of bar products, will report to John Ferriola.
 
"I am very excited by this new opportunity," said Ferriola. "Ladd and Joe will be great additions to our already strong executive management team. I am looking forward to working with this team to continuously improve Nucor's leadership position as one of the lowest cost, highest quality, most productive and most profitable steel producers in the world."
Ham Lott, Executive Vice President for fabricated products, Joe Rutkowski, Executive Vice President of business development, and Terry Lisenby, Executive Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, will continue to report to DiMicco.
As part of the reorganization, Doug Jellison, 49, Vice President and General Manager of Nucor's Seattle bar mill, replaces Stratman at Nucor-Yamato; and Giff Daughtridge, 48, Vice President and General Manager of Nucor's plate mill in Hertford County, North Carolina, replaces Hall in Berkeley County. Replacements for Jellison and Daughtridge will be named at a later date.
Nucor and affiliates are manufacturers of steel products, with operating facilities primarily in the U.S. and Canada. Products produced include: carbon and alloy steelin bars, beams, sheet and plate; steel joists and joist girders; steel deck; fabricated concrete reinforcing steel; cold finished steel; steel fasteners; metal building systems; light gauge steel framing; steel grating and expanded metal; and wire and wire mesh. Nucor is North America's largest recycler.
 


