FILE:NUE/NUE-8K-20090423112637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
On April 23, 2009, Nucor Corporation issued a news release reporting its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended April 4, 2009.  A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.  Furthermore, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  April 23, 2009
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3

 
 
 
As we have progressed from September 2008 to March 2009, we have seen business and market conditions worsen each succeeding month.  Entering the second quarter of 2009, both the U.S. economy and steel market conditions have continued to deteriorate, and we expect a second quarter loss greater than the first quarter as a result.  Continued low operating rates, lower pricing and the consumption of high cost pig iron inventories for the full quarter at our sheet mills will negatively impact earnings.  Our second quarter guidance will only be qualitative at this time.  We will update our guidance midway between the first and second quarter earnings releases.
 
Nucor and affiliates are manufacturers of steel products, with operating facilities primarily in the U.S. and Canada. Products produced include: carbon and alloy steel -- in bars, beams, sheet and plate; steel joists and joist girders; steel deck; fabricated concrete reinforcing steel; cold finished steel; steel fasteners; metal building systems; light gauge steel framing; steel grating and expanded metal; and wire and wire mesh. Nucor, through DJJ, also brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron and HBI/DRI; supplies ferro-alloys; and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap. Nucor is North America's largest recycler.
 
Certain statements contained in this news release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.  Factors that might cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (1) the sensitivity of the results of our operations to prevailing steel prices and the changes in the supply and cost of raw materials, including scrap steel; (2) market demand for steel products; (3) energy costs and availability; (4) competitive pressure on sales and pricing, including pressure from imports and substitute materials; and (5) capital investments and their impact on our performance.  These and other factors are outlined in Nucors regulatory filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including those in Nucors December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of this date, and Nucor does not assume any obligation to update them.
 
You are invited to listen to the live broadcast of Nucors conference call in which management will discuss Nucors first quarter results on April 23, 2009 at 2:00 p.m. eastern time.  The conference call will be available over the Internet at www.nucor.com, under Investor Relations.
 
 
 
 
Unaudited figures are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


