FILE:NUE/NUE-8K-20120514141555.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) At its meeting on May 9, 2012, the Compensation and Executive Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Nucor Corporation (the "Corporation") approved an amendment to the vesting and exercisability provisions of the stock options granted to Daniel R. DiMicco, the Corporation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, on June 1, 2010 and June 1, 2011. The amendment provides that the options will become vested and exercisable in the event of Mr. DiMicco's death or disability while employed by the Corporation and, in either of such events, will remain exercisable for the remainder of the period preceding the originally scheduled expiration date of the options. The amendment conforms the vesting and exercisability provisions of the stock options granted to Mr. DiMicco on June 1, 2010 and June 1, 2011 to the provisions of the stock options that will be granted to Mr. DiMicco on June 1, 2012 under the Corporation's annual long-term incentive award program.
 
(a) The Corporation held its annual meeting of stockholders on May 10, 2012.
(b) At the meeting, stockholders elected all four of the directors nominated by the Board to serve for a term of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Each director received a greater number of votes cast "for" his election than votes "withheld" from his election as reflected below. The stockholders also ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Corporation's independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2012. The stockholders did not approve the stockholder proposal presented at the meeting. For more information on the proposals, see the Corporation's proxy statement dated March 22, 2012. The final voting results for each of the proposals presented at the meeting are set forth below.
Election of Directors:
 
Ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP:
 
Stockholder Proposal - Director Election Majority Vote Standard:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


