FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20030731200348.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9. INFORMATION PROVIDED UNDER ITEM 12DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
The information required by Item 12 is being provided under Item 9 pursuant to the SEC Interim filing guidance provided in the SEC Release No. 33-8216.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings.
 
On July 31, 2003 FMC Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 31, 2003
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FMC Corporation Announces Second Quarter Earnings per Share of $0.61
 
FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC) today reported second quarter 2003 net income of $0.61 per share on a diluted basis versus $0.57 per share reported in the second quarter of 2002. Second quarter revenue of $510.0 million was up 6 percent as compared with $482.4 million in the prior-year period. Net income of $21.7 million increased from $19.2 million in the year-earlier period. Net income in the year-earlier period included restructuring and other charges of $4.6 million after-tax, or $0.14 per share on a diluted basis, resulting from severance and other expenses within Industrial Chemicals and Corporate.
PHILADELPHIA, July 29, 2003
 
According to William G. Walter, FMC chairman, president and chief executive officer: "We delivered good results in the quarter exceeding our own expectations. Agricultural Products and Specialty Chemicals generated strong growth in operating profit resulting in part from our efforts to focus these businesses on higher value markets. This growth, however, was partially offset by poor performance in Industrial Chemicals. Weak demand and overcapacity, particularly in phosphorus chemicals, continue to depress prices and profitability in this segment. We are actively addressing these issues through our own cost reduction programs, and Astaris has nearly completed a strategic review of its portfolio with any subsequent restructuring actions likely to follow in the second half of 2003. Importantly, we continue to make progress in our corporate commitments to improve cash flow through working capital and capital spending reductions."
 
 
Page 2 / FMC Corporation Announces Second Quarter Earnings
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $174.7 million, essentially flat versus the prior-year quarter. In North America, the unfavorable impacts of lower row crop pest pressures, delayed herbicide applications in crop protection markets and distributor channel inventory reductions were slightly offset by strong sales in the professional, turf and ornamental markets. In Latin America, higher sales were driven by an overall improvement in Brazil's market conditions. Segment earnings of $27.2 million before interest and taxes ("Earnings") were up 15 percent from the second quarter of 2002 due to a more profitable sales mix and more efficient plant operations.
 
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $138.8 million, an increase of 11 percent from the prior-year quarter. In the BioPolymer business, higher microcrystalline cellulose demand in the pharmaceutical market and favorable foreign currency drove sales higher. In the lithium business, strong sales growth resulted from higher butyllithium sales into the pharmaceutical synthesis market as well as increased cathode material and metal sales into the battery market. Segment earnings of $30.0 million were up 24 percent from the second quarter of 2002. Earnings increased due to higher sales and improved productivity.
 
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $197.4 million, an increase of 7 percent from the prior-year quarter. In the alkali business, an unfavorable product mix and lower average export prices for soda ash, drove sales lower. In the peroxygens business, sales were down slightly due to lower hydrogen peroxide volumes into the pulp market. At Foret, improved phosphate volumes, higher peroxygen selling prices and volumes and favorable foreign currency translation, all drove sales higher. Segment earnings were $7.5 million, down $4.7 million compared with the second quarter of 2002. Lower earnings were largely the result of weaker affiliate earnings from Astaris as well as lower alkali sales. Weaker affiliate earnings from Astaris were the result of the absence of a power resale contract as well as decreased selling prices due to ongoing competitive rivalry and excess capacity.
 
 
Page 3 / FMC Corporation Announces Second Quarter Earnings
 
Corporate expense was $9.6 million, a slight increase from the second quarter of 2002. Interest expense, net, was $23.4 million, up significantly from $17.0 million in the prior-year period due to higher interest rates following the October 2002 refinancing. On June 30, 2003, gross consolidated debt was $1,289.9 million, and debt, net of cash, was $934.6 million. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $30.9 million, and capital expenditures were $21.9 million.
 
Six Month Results
 
Revenue was $944.0 million, an increase of 3 percent as compared with $916.6 million in the prior-year period. Net income was $23.6 million, a decrease of 16 percent from $28.2 million in the year-earlier period. Net income in the year-earlier period included restructuring and other charges of $8.8 million after-tax for restructuring within Agricultural Products, Industrial Chemicals and Corporate.
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $303.2 million, essentially flat versus the prior-year period. North American sales into the crop protection market decreased due to lower pest pressure than the year-earlier period and distributor channel inventory reductions; these sales were offset by strong sales into the professional, turf and ornamental markets and higher Latin American herbicide sales. Segment earnings were $32.5 million, an increase of 8 percent from the first half of 2002 due to improved product mix.
 
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $265.7 million, an increase of 11 percent from the prior-year period. Higher BioPolymer and lithium sales into the pharmaceutical market, increased cathode material and metal sales into the battery market and favorable foreign currency were partially offset by lower sales into the food ingredients market and weaker specialty organic sales in the lithium business. Segment earnings were $54.4 million, an increase of 28 percent from the first half of 2002 due to higher sales and improved productivity.
 
 
Page 4 / FMC Corporation Announces Second Quarter Earnings
 
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $377.2 million, nearly flat with the prior-year period. Lower alkali and peroxygen sales were offset by favorable foreign currency translation at Foret. Segment earnings were $17.3 million, down 51 percent compared with the first half of 2002. Lower earnings were largely the result of weaker affiliate earnings from Astaris as well as lower alkali and peroxygen sales. Weaker affiliate earnings from Astaris were primarily the result of the absence of a power resale contract and decreased selling prices.
 
Corporate expense was $16.9 million, down from $19.3 million in the first half of 2002 due primarily to the absence of transition costs associated with the spin-off of FMC Technologies, Inc. Interest expense, net, was $48.7 million, up significantly from $32.4 million in the prior-year period. For the first half of 2003, depreciation and amortization was $61.4 million, and capital expenditures were $39.0 million.
 
Outlook
 
Regarding outlook and earnings guidance, Walter added: "We remain confident about the earnings outlook for the full year. We have narrowed our range for 2003 earnings expectations to $1.80-$1.90 per share before any restructuring or special items that may occur within Industrial Chemicals. We expect sequentially stronger second half earnings, which are implied in this guidance, to be driven by continued growth in Agricultural Products, lower interest expense and improvement in Industrial Chemicals, resulting largely from cost savings and operating efficiencies. Earnings in Specialty Chemicals will be lower in the second half of the year as the pharmaceutical campaigns, which drove first half lithium growth, have drawn to a close. For the third quarter, we expect earnings on the same basis to be in the range of $0.45-$0.50 per share and fourth quarter earnings to be even stronger."
 
 
Page 5 / FMC Corporation Announces Second Quarter Earnings
 
Additional details on the Company's outlook and guidance can be found in the Outlook Statement available on the web at on the Conference Call page.
http://ir.fmc.com
 
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs approximately 5,500 people throughout the world. The company divides its businesses into three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2002 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
 
FMC will conduct its second quarter conference call at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) on July 30, 2003. This event will be available live and as a replay on the web at .
http://ir.fmc.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
See attachment 3 of 6 for the reconciliation of Non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


