FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20031030092159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 29, 2003 FMC Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date October 30, 2003
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FMC Corporation Announces Third Quarter Results
 
FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC) today reported a net loss of $3.4 million for the third quarter of 2003, or $0.10 per share loss on a diluted basis, versus net income of $28.2 million in the third quarter of 2002, or $0.79 per diluted share. The net loss for the current quarter included charges of $20.2 million after-tax, or $0.57 per diluted share, relating primarily to the previously announced Astaris restructuring program, partially offset by the gain on the sale of real estate. Excluding these charges, earnings were $0.47 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2003. Third quarter revenue of $470.5 million was down 1 percent as compared with $476.6 million in the prior-year quarter.
PHILADELPHIA, October 29, 2003
 
According to William G. Walter, FMC chairman, president and chief executive officer: "We made steady progress on all our objectives. We delivered earnings before restructuring charges at the mid-point of our previous guidance of $0.45 to $0.50 per share despite the unfavorable impact on our Agricultural Products business of weak pest pressure in selected North American crop markets. We followed through on our commitment to take aggressive actions in Industrial Chemicals by obtaining the agreement of our joint venture partner and Astaris' lenders to implement a significant restructuring plan in Astaris that should result in $40-50 million in total annual cost savings for the phosphorus chemicals venture once fully implemented. We are ahead of our cash flow objectives and expect to generate $30-40 million of free cash in 2003. In summary, while the external business environment remains challenging particularly in Industrial Chemicals, we continue to meet or exceed our commitments and expect to do so for the balance of the year."
 
Page 2 / FMC Announces Third Quarter Earnings
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $154.1 million, a decrease of 9 percent from the prior-year quarter. This decline was driven by lower sales in the North American crop business, where weak pest pressure in the corn mite and cotton worm markets resulted in lower insecticide volumes, and by an earlier decision to exit lower margin third party products in Brazil. These declines were partially offset by higher sales in the European crop market and favorable foreign currency translation. Segment earnings before interest and taxes ("segment earnings") of $24.1 million were up 16 percent from the third quarter of 2002 due to a more profitable sales mix and more efficient plant operations.
 
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $125.6 million, an increase of 2 percent from the prior-year quarter. In the BioPolymer business, higher sales of microcrystalline cellulose into the pharmaceutical market and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation were partially offset by lower North American sales into the nutritional beverage market. In the lithium business, increased sales into the battery market were partially offset by weaker specialty organic sales into the pharmaceutical market. Segment earnings of $23.3 million were essentially flat with the third quarter of 2002.
 
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $192.0 million, an increase of 4 percent from the prior-year quarter. Foret drove the overall increase due to higher peroxygen volumes and selling prices and favorable foreign currency translation. In the alkali business, lower soda ash selling prices in export markets were largely offset by higher selling prices in caustic and bicarbonate. In the peroxygens business, decreased hydrogen peroxide volumes in the pulp market were partially offset by higher selling prices. Segment earnings of $7.9 million were down $12.4 million from the third quarter of 2002. Lower segment earnings were largely the result of weaker affiliate earnings from Astaris as well as higher manufacturing costs in the alkali business resulting from scheduled mine maintenance. Weaker affiliate earnings from Astaris were the result of the absence of a power resale contract as well as decreased selling prices due to competitive rivalry and excess phosphorus chemicals capacity.
 
Page 3 / FMC Announces Third Quarter Earnings
 
Corporate expense of $9.3 million was up from $8.6 million in the third quarter of 2002 due largely to higher insurance costs. Interest expense, net, was $23.0 million, up from $15.7 million in the prior-year period due to higher interest rates following the October 2002 refinancing. On September 30, 2003, gross consolidated debt was $1,083.8 million and debt, net of cash, was $793.3 million. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $31.3 million, and capital expenditures were $20.2 million.
 
Nine-Month Results
 
Revenue of $1,414.5 million was up 2 percent as compared with $1,393.2 million in the prior-year period. Net income of $20.2 million decreased from $56.4 million in the year-earlier period. Net income included charges of $20.2 million after-tax largely for restructuring within Industrial Chemicals in this year and $8.8 million after-tax for restructuring within Agricultural Products, Industrial Chemicals and Corporate in the prior year.
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $457.3 million, a decrease of 4 percent from the prior-year period. Lower North American sales resulting from weak pest pressure and distributor channel inventory reductions were partially offset by strong Latin American sales, particularly in herbicides. Segment earnings were $56.6 million, up 11 percent from the prior-year period due to improved product mix and lower production costs.
 
Page 4 / FMC Announces Third Quarter Earnings
 
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $391.3 million, an increase of 8 percent from the prior-year period. Higher BioPolymer and lithium sales into the pharmaceutical market, increased lithium sales into the battery market and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation were partially offset by lower BioPolymer sales in the nutritional beverage segment. Segment earnings were $77.7 million, an increase of 18 percent from the prior-year period due to higher sales, favorable foreign currency translation and improved productivity.
 
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $569.2 million, an increase of 2 percent from the prior-year period. Lower soda ash export prices and weaker hydrogen peroxide volumes in the pulp market were offset by favorable foreign currency translation at Foret. Segment earnings of $25.2 million were down $30.4 million from the prior-year period. Lower segment earnings were largely the result of weaker affiliate earnings from Astaris as well as lower alkali and peroxygen sales. Weaker affiliate earnings from Astaris were primarily the result of the absence of a power resale contract and decreased selling prices.
 
Corporate expense of $26.2 million was down slightly from $27.9 million in the prior-year period due primarily to the absence of transition costs associated with the spin-off of FMC Technologies, Inc. Interest expense, net, was $71.7 million, up from $48.1 million in the prior-year period. For the first nine months of 2003, depreciation and amortization was $92.7 million, and capital expenditures were $59.2 million.
 
Page 5 / FMC Announces Third Quarter Earnings
 
Outlook
 
Regarding outlook and guidance, Walter added: "We remain confident about the earnings outlook for the full year and expect fourth quarter earnings to be in the range of $0.65 to $0.70 per share before restructuring or other charges. Stronger Industrial Chemicals earnings and lower interest expense will drive the sequential improvement in fourth quarter earnings. Industrial Chemicals earnings will benefit from improved operating performance in the alkali business and lower costs at Astaris. Interest expense will improve following the retirement of FMC's September 2003 bond maturities with restricted cash already on the balance sheet. We continue to believe that 2003 represents the low point of our earnings. For 2004, an improved outlook for Industrial Chemicals and lower interest expense, partially offset by continued cost escalation in energy, insurance and pensions, should result in 2004 earnings per share before restructuring and other charges at the low end of analysts' current projections."
 
Additional details on the FMC's outlook and guidance can be found in the Outlook Statement available on the web at on the Conference Call page.
http://ir.fmc.com
 
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs approximately 5,500 people throughout the world. The company divides its businesses into three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
 
Page 6 / FMC Announces Third Quarter Earnings
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2002 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
 
FMC will conduct its third quarter conference call at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST) on October 30, 2003. This event will be available live and as a replay on the web at .
http://ir.fmc.com
 
 
 
 
See attachment 3 of 6 for the reconciliation of Non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial results.
 
 
 
 
 
 


