FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20040429100225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On April 28, 2004 FMC Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 29, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FMC Corporation Announces First Quarter Results and Improved Outlook for 2004
 
 FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC) today reported first quarter 2004 net income of $5.5 million or $0.15 per diluted share versus $1.9 million or $0.05 per share in the first quarter of 2003. First quarter 2004 net income included restructuring and other charges and a charge to discontinued operations that totaled $8.4 million after-tax or $0.23 per share. Excluding these charges, first quarter 2004 earnings were $13.9 million or $0.38 per share. First quarter revenue of $505.7 million was up 17 percent as compared with $434.0 million in the year-earlier quarter.
PHILADELPHIA, April 28, 2004
 
According to William G. Walter, FMC chairman, president and chief executive officer: "We had a great start in 2004, a year that we expect to be a major turning-point in our financial performance. We significantly exceeded the expectations we had set at the beginning of the quarter due to outstanding performance in our Agricultural Products segment. A robust Brazilian crop protection market coupled with our continued success in implementing a focused strategy in Agricultural Products paid off very well during the quarter. The balance of our portfolio delivered as expected, and we remain on track to deliver strong, double-digit earnings growth in 2004."
 
Page 2/FMC Announces First Quarter Earnings
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $173.4 million, an increase of 35 percent from the prior-year quarter. This increase was broad-based across insecticides and herbicides and resulted primarily from strong performance in Latin America, especially Brazil, due to an improved farm economy, heavy pest pressures and growth in new products. Market improvement in Asia and a stronger euro also contributed to the quarter's growth in revenue. Segment earnings before interest and taxes ("segment earnings") of $19.7 million were up nearly four-fold from the first quarter of 2003 due to higher sales, improved product mix and lower manufacturing costs, partially offset by higher R&D and selling expenses.
 
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $134.7 million, an increase of 6 percent from the prior-year quarter. The BioPolymer businesses drove the increase with stronger microcrystalline cellulose sales into the pharmaceutical market, higher sales of carrageenan into the personal care and food ingredients markets and favorable foreign currency translation. The lithium business was up slightly as the benefits of increased sales into the battery market and favorable foreign currency translation were partially offset by lower sales into the pharmaceutical market due to the timing of customer production campaigns. Despite increased sales, segment earnings of $24.6 million were essentially flat versus the first quarter of 2003 primarily due to the impact of higher raw material costs.
 
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $198.3 million, an increase of 10 percent from the prior-year quarter. Foret was a significant component of this overall increase with higher volumes and selling prices for both STPP and peroxygens coupled with favorable foreign currency translation. In the alkali business, the benefits of improved soda ash volumes and higher domestic selling prices were partially offset by lower export selling prices. In the domestic peroxygens business, unfavorable product mix more than
 
Page 3/FMC Announces First Quarter Earnings
 
offset the benefit of higher selling prices. Segment earnings of $6.7 million were down $3.1 million from the first quarter of 2003 due to lower soda ash export prices and higher energy costs. Affiliate earnings improved due to the benefit of the Astaris restructuring.
 
Corporate expense of $9.3 million was up from $7.3 million in the first quarter of 2003. Interest expense, net, was $20.4 million, down from $25.3 million in the prior-year period due to lower interest rates and debt levels. On March 31, 2004, gross consolidated debt was $1,122.2 million, and debt, net of cash, was $920.4 million. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $33.2 million, and capital expenditures were $13.3 million.
 
Outlook
 
Regarding outlook and guidance, Walter said: "The stronger-than-expected start to the year has prompted us to increase our earnings expectations for full-year 2004 to $2.65 - $2.85 per diluted share before restructuring and other charges. The stronger first quarter earnings in Agricultural Products, an expected rebound in Industrial Chemicals related largely to improvement at Astaris and lower interest expense will be the key drivers of the full-year earnings performance. Our second quarter 2004 earnings expectations are $0.75 - $0.85 per share. An improving outlook in Industrial Chemicals and lower interest expense are expected be the key drivers of the second quarter's earnings performance."
 
Page 4/FMC Announces First Quarter Earnings
 
The Company has provided additional details concerning this earnings release on the web at including: details on the 2004 earnings outlook, available on the Conference Call page; reconciliations of non-GAAP figures to the nearest available GAAP term, also available the Conference Call page; and definitions of non-GAAP terms, located in the Glossary of Financial Terms.
http://ir.fmc.com
 
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs approximately 5,300 people throughout the world. The company operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2003 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
 
FMC will conduct its first quarter conference call at 9:00 a.m. EDT on April 29, 2004. This event will be available live and as a replay on the web at .
http://ir.fmc.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


