FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20050901160328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
FMC Corporation ("FMC" or the "Company") executed an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of September 1, 2005 (the "Agreement") among the Company, Solutia Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Solutia"), Astaris LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Astaris"), Israel Chemicals Limited, an Israeli corporation ("ICL"), and ICL Performance Products Holding Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of ICL ("Buyer").
 
The Agreement provides for the sale by Astaris, the Company's 50%-owned phosphorus chemicals joint venture with Solutia, to Buyer, or certain other affiliates of ICL, of all assets, other than certain excluded assets, used in the business of Astaris and for the assumption by Buyer of specified liabilities of Astaris.
 
The sale price is $255 million, subject to adjustment to take into account any shortfall in capital expenditures made by Astaris prior to the closing date below an agreed level and actual working capital of Astaris on the closing date being above or below an agreed level.
 
Closing of the sale is subject to a number of conditions, including (i) filing by Solutia of a motion (the "Approval Motion") with the United States Bankruptcy Court (the "Court") having jurisdiction over Solutia's proceedings under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code seeking approval of Solutia's execution of the Agreement and consent to the sale of assets by Astaris thereunder and certain other matters, (ii) entry of an order (the "Approval Order") by the Court approving such matters and (iii) the Approval Order having become final. Closing is also subject to clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (the "HSR Act") and other customary conditions.
 
The Agreement may be terminated by FMC, Solutia and Astaris, on the one hand, or by Buyer, on the other hand, if the Closing has not occurred within 120 days (or 270 days in lieu of 120 days if there is a second request under the HSR Act) after the earlier of the date of filing by Solutia of the Approval Motion or the fifth business day following the date of the Agreement.
 
The Agreement will terminate automatically if the Court enters an order (a "Negotiation Order") requiring that Solutia pursue an alternative sale or similar transaction with respect to Astaris or Solutia's interest therein (an "Acquisition Transaction"). The Agreement may also be terminated by Buyer if the Approval Order has not been entered by the Court within 67 days after the date of the Agreement and become final within 10 days thereafter.
 
If the Agreement is terminated automatically or Buyer terminates the Agreement, as provided in the preceding paragraph, or, under certain circumstances, if FMC, Solutia and Astaris terminate the Agreement, Astaris is required to reimburse Buyer for its transaction expenses, not to exceed $2 million. If there is an automatic termination by reason of a entry by the Court of a Negotiation Order and an Acquisition Transaction with a purchase price having a value equal to or greater than $265 million is consummated within nine months after the date of entry of the Negotiation Order, or an agreement for such an Acquisition Transaction is signed within such nine-month period and thereafter consummated, Astaris is required to pay Buyer a termination fee of $7.5 million less expenses previously reimbursed.
FMC, Solutia and Astaris have agreed to five-year non-competition covenants in the phosphorus chemicals business and to three-year restrictions on hiring employees of the business sold to Buyer or of Buyer.
 
FMC and Solutia have agreed, severally and not jointly, to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Buyer, ICL and their affiliates from and in respect of losses arising out of or resulting from breaches of representations and warranties, breaches of covenants and agreements, liabilities other than assumed liabilities or excluded assets. Certain indemnification obligations will be the sole responsibility of FMC or Solutia and other indemnification obligations will be equally shared. The indemnification obligations are subject to various limitations set forth in the Agreement.
 
The foregoing description sets forth a brief summary of certain terms of the Agreement that may be material to FMC, and such summary is subject in all respects to the specific terms of the Agreement.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On September 1, 2005, the Company issued a press release concerning the matters set forth in this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: September 1, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Release: Immediate
 
Jim Fitzwater  215.299.6633
Media contact:
Brennen Arndt  215.299.6266
Investor Relations contact:
 
FMC Corporation Reaches Agreement to Sell Astaris Joint Venture
 
 FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC) and Solutia Inc. announced today the companies have reached an agreement to sell their 50/50 specialty phosphates joint venture, Astaris LLC, to Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL). Under the terms of the agreement, ICL will purchase substantially all of the assets of Astaris for $255 million.
PHILADELPHIA, September 1, 2005
 
This transaction is subject to certain approvals, including regulatory clearances and the U.S. Bankruptcy Court overseeing Solutia's Chapter 11 case.
 
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs approximately 5,000 people throughout the world and operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2004 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 


