FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20050128103426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On January 27, 2005 FMC Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
ITEM 9.01 Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1    Press Release
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 28, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FMC Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter 2004 Results and Provides Outlook for 2005
 
 FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC) today reported fourth quarter 2004 net income of $94.5 million or $2.47 per diluted share versus $6.3 million or $0.18 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2003. The Company recorded a benefit in the quarter of $1.59 per share related to tax adjustments, net of several charges, versus charges in the prior-year quarter that totaled $0.58 per share. Excluding these items, the company earned $0.88 per share in the fourth quarter 2004 versus $0.76 in the fourth quarter 2003. Fourth quarter revenue of $513.7 million was up modestly as compared with $506.9 million in the year-earlier quarter.
PHILADELPHIA, January 27, 2005
 
According to William G. Walter, FMC chairman, president and chief executive officer: "Good fourth quarter performance capped off a year that has exceeded our expectations with regard to earnings growth, debt reduction and return on invested capital. Growth in earnings of 24 percent before restructuring and other income and charges for the quarter versus the prior year was driven by higher selling prices in Industrial Chemicals, cost improvement at Astaris and lower interest expense. For the year, earnings before restructuring and other income and charges increased 78 percent versus 2003, net debt was reduced by $155 million and our return on invested capital was 10.5 percent, all of which are well ahead of where we thought we would be when we set forth our long-term targets in 2003."
 
Page 2/FMC Announces Fourth Quarter Earnings
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $173.0 million, a decrease of 5 percent from the prior-year quarter. As expected, the sales decrease was largely in insecticides and was driven by a shift in North America demand into the first quarter of 2005, closer to the time of use by the farmer, and weaker sales in Asia, primarily Japan. Higher sales in Brazil, due to a continued strong farm economy, partially offset the overall sales decline. Segment earnings before interest and taxes ("segment earnings") of $23.7 million were down 7 percent versus the fourth quarter of 2003 due to the impact of lower sales and higher selling expenses in Brazil, partially offset by lower manufacturing costs and improved mix.
 
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $126.9 million, an increase of 2 percent versus the prior-year quarter. The BioPolymer business accounted for the entire increase, with stronger sales of microcrystalline cellulose and alginates in the food ingredients market driven by several new product launches and favorable foreign currency translation. Sales in the lithium business were relatively flat as the timing of demand in the battery market offset steady growth in the polymer and pharmaceutical synthesis markets. Segment earnings of $21.7 million were down 11 percent from the fourth quarter of 2003 due to unfavorable BioPolymer mix in the pharmaceutical market and higher raw material costs.
 
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $214.5 million, an increase of 7 percent from the prior-year quarter. The alkali business drove the increase, with higher soda ash volumes and selling prices. Higher Foret sales resulted from increased phosphate and peroxygen prices and favorable foreign currency translation. Domestic peroxygen sales were up marginally as the benefit of higher volumes was almost entirely offset by unfavorable mix. Segment earnings of $18.4 million more than doubled versus the fourth quarter of 2003 as the benefit of generally higher selling prices, higher volumes and improved affiliate earnings was partly offset by continued, higher energy and transportation costs. Affiliate earnings improved due to the benefits of the Astaris restructuring.
 
Page 3/FMC Announces Fourth Quarter Earnings
 
Corporate expense of $11.7 million was up 5 percent from $11.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. Interest expense, net, was $17.5 million, down from $20.5 million in the prior-year period due to lower interest rates and debt levels. On December 31, 2004, gross consolidated debt was $923.2 million, and debt, net of cash, was $701.1 million. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $34.3 million, and capital expenditures were $35.5 million.
 
Full-Year Results
 
Revenue was $2,051.2 million, an increase of 7 percent as compared with $1,921.4 million in 2003. Net income was $160.2 million versus $26.5 million in the year earlier. Net income in the current year included a benefit of $40.4 million related to tax adjustments, net of several charges, versus charges to earnings in the prior year that totaled $41.0 million.
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $703.5 million, an increase of 10 percent over 2003 results. Higher insecticide sales accounted for over half of the increase and were driven by strong performance in Brazil and Europe. Increased herbicide sales resulted from growth in Brazil, new labels in Europe, strong early season demand in North America and slightly improved market conditions in Asia. Segment earnings were $118.4 million, an increase of 44 percent from 2003 due to higher sales, lower manufacturing costs and improved product mix.
 
Page 4/FMC Announces Fourth Quarter Earnings
 
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $538.0 million, an increase of 4 percent versus the prior year. The BioPolymer businesses drove most of the revenue increase with higher sales in the pharmaceutical and food ingredient markets as well as favorable foreign currency translation. Revenue in the lithium business was up modestly from the prior-year period as the benefits of increased sales into the battery market and favorable foreign currency translation were partially offset by lower sales into the pharmaceutical market. Segment earnings of $96.1 million were down 6 percent versus the year earlier due to the impact of higher raw material costs and spending on BioPolymer growth initiatives.
 
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $813.7 million, an increase of 6 percent versus the prior year. Improved Foret sales resulted from generally higher selling prices and favorable foreign currency translation. Higher alkali sales were driven by strong soda ash volume growth in export markets and improved domestic selling prices, partially offset by weaker export prices. Lower domestic peroxygen sales resulted from an unfavorable mix and lower prices for persulfates, somewhat offset by improved volumes. Segment earnings of $57.3 million were up 69 percent versus 2003 as the benefit of generally higher selling prices, higher volumes and improved affiliate earnings were partly offset by higher energy and transportation costs and lower soda ash export prices. Affiliate earnings improved due to the benefits of the Astaris restructuring.
 
Corporate expense of $40.3 million was up from $37.3 million in the year earlier due entirely to higher spending related to Sarbanes Oxley Section 404 compliance. Interest expense, net, was $78.4 million, down from $92.2 million in the prior year due to lower interest rates and debt levels. For the year, depreciation and amortization was $134.3 million, and capital expenditures were $85.4 million.
 
Page 5/FMC Announces Fourth Quarter Earnings
 
Outlook
 
Regarding outlook and guidance for 2005, Walter said: "Our financial performance should further improve in 2005. We expect continued double-digit growth in earnings per share before restructuring and other income and charges to result in full-year earnings of between $3.70 and $3.90 per diluted share, driven by a significant recovery in selling prices in Industrial Chemicals, lower interest expense and continued growth in Specialty Chemicals, partially offset by higher input costs. Agricultural Products earnings are anticipated to be flat year-over-year as continued strength in Brazil is offset by price pressure in North America from generic producers. Lastly, we expect reduction in net debt during 2005 of approximately $140 million."
 
Walter added: "Given a strong early season in Brazil, the positive impact of the fourth quarter shift in North America Ag demand and the recovery in Industrial Chemicals, we anticipate exceeding last year's first quarter results by a considerable margin, delivering earnings before restructuring and other income and charges of between $0.55 and $0.65 per diluted share."
 
The Company has provided additional details concerning this earnings release on the web at including: details on the 2004 earnings outlook, available on the Conference Call page; reconciliations of non-GAAP figures to the nearest available GAAP term, also available on the Conference Call page; and definitions of non-GAAP terms, located in the Glossary of Financial Terms.
http://ir.fmc.com
 
Page 6/FMC Announces Fourth Quarter Earnings
 
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs approximately 5,300 people throughout the world. The company operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2003 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
FMC will conduct its fourth quarter conference call at 11:00 a.m. EST on January 28, 2005. This event will be available live and as a replay on the web at .
http://ir.fmc.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


