FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20050503110650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On May 2, 2005 FMC Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
ITEM 9.01    Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: May 3, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FMC Corporation Announces First Quarter 2005 Results
 
 FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC) today reported first quarter 2005 net income of $64.5 million or $1.67 per diluted share as compared with net income of $5.5 million or $0.15 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2004. The Company recorded an after-tax gain in the quarter of $0.56 per share related primarily to the sale of real estate, net of restructuring and other income and charges, versus an after-tax charge of $0.23 per share in the prior-year quarter due to restructuring and other charges. Excluding these items, the company earned $1.11 per share in the first quarter 2005 versus $0.38 in the first quarter 2004. First quarter revenue of $552.4 million was up 9 percent as compared with $505.7 million in the year-earlier quarter.
PHILADELPHIA, May 2, 2005
 
According to William G. Walter, FMC chairman, president and chief executive officer: "The year is off to a very good start with strong first quarter performance across all our businesses. Industrial Chemicals is enjoying significant leverage from one of the best pricing environments since the mid-1990s, particularly in soda ash. In Agricultural Products, the benefits of our focused strategy coupled with increases in planted acreage and strong pest pressures in Brazil resulted in another outstanding quarter. Our Specialty Chemicals business generated solid earnings growth driven by higher selling prices and improved productivity in the face of continued, high raw material costs. Our net debt decreased, even with the seasonal working capital build for Agricultural Products, thanks in part to the sale of a portion of our San Jose, Calif,. property."
 
 
Page 2/FMC Announces First Quarter Results
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $198.1 million, an increase of 14 percent from the prior-year quarter. The majority of the increase resulted from higher insecticide sales in Brazil, particularly in cotton, due to increases in planted acreage and strong pest pressures. As expected, sales in North America also increased as a result of a shift in sales from the fourth quarter of the prior year to the current quarter. Segment earnings before interest and taxes ("segment earnings") of $33.6 million were up 71 percent versus the first quarter of 2004 due to higher sales, improved mix and continued manufacturing productivity improvements.
 
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $136.8 million, an increase of 2 percent versus the prior-year quarter. Sales in the BioPolymer business were relatively flat as increased demand in food ingredients was offset by the timing of demand in both the pharmaceutical and personal care markets. Higher sales in the lithium business benefited from strong demand in the polymer market and the timing of sales in the pharmaceutical synthesis market. Segment earnings of $28.4 million were up 15 percent from the first quarter of 2004 due to improved selling prices, lower overhead costs and favorable foreign currency translation, partially offset by increased raw material costs.
 
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $218.4 million, an increase of 10 percent from the prior-year quarter. The alkali business accounted for the majority of the increase due to significant improvement in both domestic and export soda ash selling prices. Foret benefited from increased selling prices in phosphates and hydrogen peroxide as well as favorable foreign currency translation, partially offset by lower bleacher sales in the detergent market. Domestic peroxygens sales were up slightly due to higher volumes and selling prices for hydrogen peroxide, partially offset by lower persulfate sales. Segment earnings of $21.6 million more than tripled versus the first quarter of 2004 due largely to the benefit of higher selling prices throughout the segment and lower costs at the Astaris joint venture, offset in part by higher raw material, freight and energy costs.
 
 
Page 3/ FMC Announces First Quarter Results
 
Corporate expense of $11.2 million was up $1.9 million versus the first quarter of 2004 primarily due to higher expense associated with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance. Interest expense, net, was $17.0 million, down from $20.4 million in the prior-year period due to lower interest rates and debt levels. On March 31, 2005, gross consolidated debt was $909.6 million, and debt, net of cash, was $680.3 million. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $34.6 million, and capital expenditures were $13.9 million.
 
Outlook
 
Regarding outlook and guidance for 2005, Walter said: "With our strong first quarter performance, we have raised our full-year earnings outlook for 2005, before restructuring and other income and charges, to $4.15$4.30 per diluted share. This implies an outlook for the remaining nine months of 2005 that is unchanged from our January outlook. The benefit of higher selling prices in the soda ash export market is expected to be largely offset by higher energy, freight and raw material costs."
 
Walter added: "As discussed in our January conference call, the primary drivers of second quarter earnings will be continued strong, year-over-year earnings growth in Industrial Chemicals, partially offset by moderately lower earnings in Agricultural Products as a result of lower prices from generic competition in North America. For the second quarter, we expect earnings before restructuring and other income and charges of between $1.15 and $1.25 per diluted share."
 
 
Page 4/FMC Announces First Quarter Results
 
FMC will conduct its first quarter conference call at 11:00 a.m. EDT on May 3, 2005. This event will be available live and as a replay on the web at . Prior to the conference call, the Company will also provide supplemental information on the web including: details on the 2005 earnings outlook, available on the Conference Call page; reconciliations of non-GAAP figures to the nearest available GAAP term, also available on the Conference Call page; and definitions of non-GAAP terms, located in the Glossary of Financial Terms.
http://ir.fmc.com
 
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs approximately 5,000 people throughout the world. The company operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
 
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2004 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment 1 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment 2 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment 3 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment 4 of 6
 
 
 
 
Attachment 5 of 6
 
 
 
 
Attachment 6 of 6
 


