FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20070820174108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of FMC Corporation ("FMC") adopted a resolution effective October 1, 2007: a) increasing the number of directors to nine and b) electing Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. as a director to fill a vacancy in Class I, the class of directors whose term will expire at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2008. Mr. Volpe has not yet been appointed to any committee of the Board.
Mr. Volpe will participate in FMC's Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors described in FMC's 2007 Proxy Statement. In connection with his election to the Board, Mr. Volpe will receive a pro rata portion of the current annual retainer of $40,000 that FMC pays to non-employee directors (at least $25,000 of which is paid in fully vested restricted stock units, which are payable in common stock upon termination from the Board of Directors). In addition, Mr. Volpe will receive a pro rata portion of the annual grant of restricted stock units (which annual grant has a value of $35,000 on the date of grant). These latter restricted stock units vest at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held in the year following the date of grant, with vested shares payable in common stock once service from the Board has terminated. Mr. Volpe will also be entitled to dividend equivalent rights on vested and unvested restricted stock units.
In addition to the foregoing, Mr. Volpe will receive a meeting fee of $1,500 for each Board of Directors meeting and each Committee meeting attended, and if he serves on the Audit Committee will also receive in 2007 a pro rata portion of an additional $3,000 annual retainer. He will also be reimbursed for reasonable incidental expenses.
FMC issued a news release on August, 20, 2007 announcing Mr. Volpe's election to the Board. A copy of the news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 20, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Release: IMMEDIATE
Jim Fitzwater  215.299.6633
Media contact:
Brennen Arndt  215.299.6266
Investor relations contact:
FMC Corporation Elects Vincent R. Volpe, Jr., to Board of Directors
 FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC) announced today that Vincent R. Volpe, Jr., has been elected to the company's board of directors, effective October 1, 2007.
PHILADELPHIA, August 20, 2007
Mr. Volpe, age 49, is president and chief executive office of Dresser-Rand Group Inc. (NYSE: DRC), a leading supplier of rotating equipment solutions to the worldwide oil, gas, petrochemical and process industries. He also serves as a member of the Dresser-Rand Board of Directors and the Board of Trustees of St. Bonaventure University. Mr. Volpe has been with Dresser-Rand and its predecessor companies since 1981. He has been president and chief executive officer of the company since September 2000.
Mr. Volpe earned a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering and a B.A. in German literature, both from Lehigh University.
With this election, Mr. Volpe becomes the eighth independent director on the FMC Board. William G. Walter, FMC chairman, president and chief executive officer is the sole inside director.
Page 2 / FMC Corporation Elects Vincent R. Volpe, Jr., to Board of Directors
 
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs approximately 5,000 people throughout the world and operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
Safe Harbor Statement under the private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2006 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.


