FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20070621083258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On June 15, 2007, FMC Corporation ("FMC" or "the Company") made the decision to phase out operations of its Baltimore, Maryland agricultural chemicals facility by March 2008. The Company's decision is consistent with its strategy to maintain globally cost-competitive manufacturing positions by sourcing raw materials, intermediates and finished products in lower-cost manufacturing locations.
The Company expects that the phase out of the Baltimore facility will result in estimated pre-tax charges to income from continuing operations of approximately $125 to 135 million over the next five quarters, beginning in the second quarter of 2007. Estimates of the total cost the Company expects to incur for each major type of cost associated with the phase out are: (i) impairment charges for idled fixed assets of approximately $70 to 72 million to be recorded in the second quarter of 2007, (ii) accelerated depreciation of fixed assets to be abandoned of approximately $36 to 38 million, (iii) severance and employee benefits of approximately $6 to 7 million, and (iv) approximately $13 to 18 million of other costs including clean-out and demolition costs. Net cash outlays related to the phase out are expected to be approximately $14 to 18 million.
In 2007, the favorable impact on the Company's income from continuing operations before income taxes, excluding the charges noted above, is expected to be approximately $5 to 6 million. The annualized benefit to income from continuing operations before income taxes is estimated to be approximately $25 to 30 million, which is expected to be fully realized in 2009.
A copy of the press release announcing these events is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements. The safe harbor statement contained in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information required to be disclosed under this item is included in Item 2.05 above and incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 21, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
For Release: Immediate
Jim Fitzwater - 215.299.6633
Media contact:
Brennen Arndt - 215.299.6266
Investor Relations contact:
FMC Announces Phase Out and Transition Plan for Baltimore Facility
FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC) today announced the company will phase out operations at its Baltimore, Md., agricultural chemicals facility by March 2008. The company's decision is consistent with its strategy to maintain globally cost-competitive manufacturing positions by sourcing raw materials, intermediates and finished products in lower-cost manufacturing locations. All the products currently produced in the Baltimore facility will be sourced from several of FMC's manufacturing alliance partners.
BALTIMORE, June 21, 2007 -
The phase out of the Baltimore facility will result in estimated pre-tax charges to income from continuing operations of approximately $125 million to $135 million over the next five quarters, beginning in the second quarter of 2007. These charges consist of asset impairments, severance and other related restructuring costs. In 2007, the favorable impact on the company's income from continuing operations before income taxes, excluding the charges noted above, is expected to be approximately $5 million to $6 million. The annualized benefit to income from continuing operations before income taxes is estimated to be approximately $25 million to $30 million, which is expected to be fully realized in 2009.
"While the economic benefits to the corporation and the expected improvements in our Agricultural Products global cost-competitiveness are significant, this was nevertheless a difficult decision from an employee perspective," said Milton Steele, Vice President and General Manager for FMC Agricultural Products.
Page 2/FMC Announces Phase Out and Transition Plan for Baltimore Facility
"We sincerely appreciate our employees' dedication and their achievements in maintaining safe and efficient operations at the Baltimore plant. Our 10-month phase out will allow us to assist our employees in finding new opportunities. During this time, we will also actively seek redevelopment of the site. We are committed to ensuring that our responsibilities to our employees and the community are addressed as fully as possible," Steele stated.
FMC is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs approximately 5,000 people throughout the world and operates its business in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors des
cribed in FMC Corporation's 2006
Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.


