FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20090505101650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On May 4, 2009, FMC Corporation issued a press release announcing the financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 5, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FMC Corporation Announces First Quarter 2009 Results
 
 
 FMC Corporation (NYSE: FMC) today reported net income of $69.1 million, or $0.94 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009, versus net income of $93.9 million, or $1.23 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2008. Net income in the current quarter included restructuring and other income and charges of $20.2 million after-tax, or charges of $0.28 per diluted share, versus restructuring and other income and charges of $2.7 million after-tax, or a gain of $0.04 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Excluding these items in both periods, the company earned $1.22 per diluted share in the current quarter, an increase of 3 percent versus $1.19 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2008. First quarter revenue of $690.5 million decreased 8 percent versus $750.2 million in the prior year.
PHILADELPHIA, May 4, 2009
William G. Walter, FMC chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "In the first quarter, we delivered record earnings per share and met our expectations. Our strong results were achieved despite the impact of the global recession, which significantly reduced volumes across several of our businesses. Agricultural Products' results were driven by strong performance in North America and Europe. Specialty Chemicals benefited from higher BioPolymer sales offset by lower lithium volumes. Industrial Chemicals' performance directly reflected the impact of lower volumes across the segment."
Page 2/ FMC Corporation Announces First Quarter 2009 Results
Revenue in Agricultural Products of $261.4 million was 6 percent lower than the prior-year quarter, as sales gains in North America and Europe were more than offset by lower sales in Latin America, primarily Brazil. Segment earnings of $92.5 million increased 12 percent versus the year-ago quarter, reflecting stronger performance in North America and Europe coupled with favorable product and geographic mix, partially offset by lower performance in Brazil.
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $174.6 million, a decrease of 5 percent versus the prior-year quarter. Higher selling prices in BioPolymer were more than offset by lower volumes across lithium. Segment earnings of $38.1 million were 4 percent lower than the year-ago quarter, as lower lithium volumes more than offset strong commercial performance and favorable product mix in BioPolymer.
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals of $256.0 million declined 12 percent from the prior-year quarter, as higher selling prices across the segment were more than offset by volume declines and unfavorable currency translation. Segment earnings of $22.8 million were 36 percent lower than the year-ago quarter, as the lower volumes and higher raw material and energy costs more than offset higher selling prices.
Corporate expense was $11.3 million, as compared to $11.9 million in the prior-year quarter. Interest expense, net, was $7.0 million, down from $8.7 million in the year-ago quarter. On March 31, 2009, gross consolidated debt was $668.2 million, and debt, net of cash, was $613.3 million. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $30.3 million and capital expenditures were $31.0 million.
Outlook
Regarding the outlook for 2009, Walter said, "For the full year 2009, we have revised our outlook for earnings before restructuring and other income and charges to $4.40 to $4.80 per diluted share.
Page 3/ FMC Corporation Announces First Quarter 2009 Results
"For the second quarter of 2009, we expect earnings before restructuring and other income and charges of $1.10 to $1.20 per diluted share. In Agricultural Products, we look for earnings growth in the mid-single digits driven by strong performance in North America, partially offset by less favorable agrochemical conditions in Brazil. In Specialty Chemicals, we expect earnings to be down 10-15 percent, as strong commercial performance in BioPolymer is more than offset by lower lithium end-use demand and the one-time impact of several plant outages. In Industrial Chemicals, earnings are expected to be down 40-50 percent, as higher selling prices across the segment are more than offset by lower volumes and higher raw material and energy costs."
FMC will conduct its first quarter conference call and webcast at 11:00 a.m. ET on Tuesday, May 5, 2009. This event will be available live and as a replay on the web at . Prior to the conference call, the company will also provide supplemental information on the web including its 2009 Outlook Statement, definitions of non-GAAP terms and reconciliations of non-GAAP figures to the nearest available GAAP term.
http://www.fmc.com
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs over 5,000 people throughout the world. The company operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2008 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended March 31, 2009 include charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Peroxygens facility in Santa Clara, Mexico, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($6.5 million) and our Bayport butyllithium facility which is part of our Specialty Chemicals segment ($4.1 million). We also incurred charges related to the realignment of our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($2.8 million). Additionally, remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended March 31, 2009 primarily include severance charges in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.5 million), asset abandonment charges in our Agricultural Products segment and Industrial Chemicals segment ($2.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively), charges associated with further rights acquired from a collaboration and license agreement in our Agricultural Products segment ($1.0 million) and charges associated with continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge ($1.2 million).
2008
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended March 31, 2008 include a net gain associated with the sale of our major research and development facility in Princeton, New Jersey ($29.6 million) and a gain associated with the sale of our sodium sulfate assets in Foret which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($3.6 million). Primarily offsetting these gains were continued charges related to the closure of our Baltimore agricultural chemicals facility ($15.8 million), charges associated with continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge ($4.9 million) and restructuring related severance charges in our Agricultural Products segment and Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.9 million and $1.1 million, respectively).
 
 
See Note (b) to the schedule "Reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to FMC Stockholders (GAAP) to After-Tax Income from Continuing Operations Excluding Restructuring and Other Income and Charges (Non-GAAP)" for further details on the components that make up this line item.
 
 
 


