FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20101130162738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
On November 29, 2010, FMC Corporation ("FMC" or "the Company") made the decision to cease operations at its Foret phosphates plant in Huelva, Spain, by December 31, 2010. The closure is due to a Spanish judicial ruling that prohibits Foret from adding gypsum to storage stacks near the Huelva site after December 31, 2010. Gypsum is a byproduct of phosphoric acid production at the front end of the plant. Phosphoric acid is used to make sodium and calcium phosphates, including sodium tripolyphosphate (STPP) at the back end of the Huelva plant.
The Company expects that the exit of the business will result in estimated pre-tax charges to income from continuing operations of $100 to $110 million. It is expected that the majority of these charges will be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010. Estimates of the total cost the Company expects to incur for each major type of cost associated with the exit are: (i) impairment charges for assets to be abandoned of approximately $40 million, and (ii) other costs of approximately $60 to $70 million. Net cash outlays related to the exit of the business are expected to be approximately $60 to $70 million.
A copy of the press release announcing these events is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
ITEM 2.06 Material Impairments
The information required to be disclosed under this item is included in Item 2.05 above and incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated November 30, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 30, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Release: Immediate
Jim Fitzwater  215.299.6633
Media contact:
Brennen Arndt  215.299.6266
Investor Relations contact:
FMC Corporation Announces Closure of Foret Phosphates Plant in Huelva, Spain
,  FMC Corporation (NYSE:FMC) announced today the company will cease operations at its Foret phosphates plant in Huelva, Spain, by December 31, 2010. The closure is due to a Spanish judicial ruling that prohibits Foret from adding gypsum to storage stacks near the Huelva site after December 31, 2010. Gypsum is a byproduct of phosphoric acid production at the front end of the plant. Phosphoric acid is used to make sodium and calcium phosphates, including sodium tripolyphosphate (STPP) at the back end of the Huelva plant.
PHILADELPHIA
November 30, 2010
Foret has challenged the judicial ruling in the Spanish courts and although the case is now in the appeals stage, a final judgment could take up to three years. According to Javier Carratala, FMC Foret managing director, the company has pursued access to a long-term supply of phosphoric acid to maintain back-end operations at the plant, but has been unable to secure a viable supply. The company has also explored other options to continue operations, but none have proved commercially viable.
"Unfortunately, we have exhausted all alternatives to keeping the plant operating," said Carratala. "We will be meeting with union representatives to plan for an orderly shutdown that will enable us to continue the current production schedule to meet our customer-contracted needs through the end of 2010."
Page 2 / FMC Corporation Announces Closure of Foret Phosphates Plant in Huelva, Spain
 
FMC Foret is a wholly owned subsidiary of FMC Corporation. FMC is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs approximately 4,800 people throughout the world. The company operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.


