FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20101028085622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2010, FMC Corporation issued a press release announcing the financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 28, 2010
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Jim Fitzwater  215.299.6633
Media contact:
Brennen Arndt  215.299.6266
Investor relations contact:
FMC Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2010 Results
 
 
 
 FMC Corporation (NYSE:FMC) today reported net income of $82.9 million, or $1.13 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2010, versus net income of $28.0 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2009. Net income in the current quarter included restructuring and other income and charges of $0.6 million after-tax, or charges of $0.01 per diluted share, versus restructuring and other income and charges of $37.3 million after-tax, or charges of $0.51 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Excluding these items in both periods, the company earned $1.14 per diluted share in the current quarter, an increase of 28 percent versus $0.89 per diluted share in the prior-year quarter. Third quarter revenue of $772.5 million was 8 percent higher than $713.3 million in the prior year.
PHILADELPHIA, October 27, 2010
Pierre Brondeau, FMC chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "We delivered another strong quarter with double-digit earnings increases and significant margin expansion in all three operating segments. Agricultural Products realized higher sales in all regions and benefited from favorable product and geographic mix. Specialty Chemicals' performance was driven by broad-based volume growth in lithium and BioPolymer and continued productivity improvements. Industrial Chemicals' results were driven by volume gains in soda ash and peroxygens and lower raw material and energy costs."
 
Page 2 / FMC Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2010 Results
 
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products of $308.9 million increased 15 percent versus the prior-year quarter driven by higher sales in all regions. In Latin America, the increase reflected improved market conditions and growth in planted acres for key crops. In Asia, sales were up in most key countries reflecting improved market conditions and the introduction of new products. Sales gains in North America were led by strong demand in cotton markets, while sales in Europe increased primarily due to higher herbicide sales. Segment earnings of $75.1 million increased 27 percent driven by the sales gains and favorable product and geographic mix, partially offset by increased spending on new product introductions and growth initiatives.
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $202.2 million, up 5 percent versus the year-ago quarter as a result of the continued demand recovery in lithium primaries, higher volumes and selling prices in lithium specialties and volume growth in BioPolymer. Segment earnings of $47.1 million increased 15 percent driven by the sales gains, favorable mix in BioPolymer's food ingredients business and continuous productivity improvements, partially offset by higher raw material costs.
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals of $262.4 million increased 3 percent from the prior-year quarter as volume gains in soda ash, particularly in export markets, and in North American and European peroxygens markets were partially offset by lower selling prices. Segment earnings of $30.0 million increased 45 percent relative to the year-ago quarter as a result of the volume gains, lower raw material and energy costs and lower plant outage costs.
Corporate expense was $15.9 million as compared to $10.3 million in the prior-year quarter. Interest expense, net, was $9.6 million versus $6.2 million in the year-ago quarter. On September 30, 2010, gross consolidated debt was $668.2 million, and debt, net of cash, was $400.9 million. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $32.5 million and capital expenditures were $36.1 million.
 
Page 3 / FMC Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2010 Results
 
 
Nine Months Results
Revenue was $2,305.8 million, an increase of 10 percent as compared with $2,104.1 million in the prior-year period. Net income was $226.0 million, an increase of 36 percent as compared with $166.4 million in the year-earlier period. Net income in the current period included restructuring and other income and charges of $49.7 million, versus restructuring and other income and charges of $68.8 million in the prior-year period. Excluding these charges, the company earned $275.7 million in the first nine months of 2010, an increase of 17 percent versus $235.2 million in the first nine months of 2009.
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $907.3 million, an increase of 16 percent versus the prior-year period, driven by sales gains in North America, Latin America, particularly Brazil, and Asia due to improved market conditions in several key crops and growth from new and recently introduced products. Segment earnings of $247.5 million increased 2 percent from the first nine months of 2009, as the sales gains were partially offset by less favorable mix, higher inventory and distribution costs, and higher spending on growth initiatives.
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $619.4 million, an increase of 11 percent above the prior-year period, led by a robust demand recovery in lithium primaries and strong commercial performance in BioPolymer. Segment earnings of $139.0 million increased 16 percent versus the year-earlier period as volume gains in lithium primaries, favorable commercial performance in BioPolymer and the benefits of productivity initiatives were partially offset by higher raw material costs.
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $781.7 million, an increase of 2 percent versus the prior-year period, as volume gains across most businesses were largely offset by reduced selling prices and lower electricity sales stemming from the sale of a Spanish cogeneration facility in 2009. Segment earnings of $94.3 million increased 65 percent versus the year-earlier period, driven by the strong demand recovery and lower raw material and energy costs, particularly phosphate rock, which more than offset lower selling prices across the segment.
 
Page 4 / FMC Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2010 Results
 
 
Corporate expense was $42.9 million as compared to $31.9 million in the year-earlier period. Interest expense, net, was $29.0 million versus $19.7 million in the prior-year period. For the period, depreciation and amortization was $99.0 million and capital expenditures were $95.3 million.
Outlook
Regarding the outlook for 2010, Brondeau said, "For the full year 2010, we have raised the midpoint of our guidance with our expectation for earnings before restructuring and other income and charges of $4.70 to $4.80 per diluted share, a 14 percent increase above last year at the midpoint of this range. We expect Agricultural Products to deliver its seventh straight year of record earnings, up in the mid-single digits, while increasing investment in innovation and continuing to deliver high profit margins. Specialty Chemicals' earnings are projected to increase approximately 20 percent, as BioPolymer is expected to achieve its sixth straight year of record earnings driven by continued strong commercial performance while lithium realizes significant earnings improvement primarily through strong demand recovery in lithium primaries. In Industrial Chemicals, we expect earnings to be up approximately 35 percent on the strength of a broad-based volume rebound and favorable raw material costs.
"For the fourth quarter of 2010, we expect earnings before restructuring and other income and charges of $0.95 to $1.05 per diluted share. In Agricultural Products, we look for earnings to be up approximately 20 percent versus prior year, driven primarily by continued growth in Brazil. In Specialty Chemicals, earnings are expected to be up approximately 30 percent versus prior year, driven by volume growth across the segment and favorable mix in food ingredients, partially offset by higher raw material costs. In Industrial Chemicals, we expect earnings to decline approximately 20 percent relative to a year ago, primarily due to the move from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of planned maintenance outages, including the successful completion of the boiler repair at our Wyoming soda ash facility early in the fourth quarter. Commercial performance in the segment will continue to benefit from higher volumes and lower raw material and energy costs, partially offset by reduced selling prices relative to a year ago."
 
Page 5 / FMC Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2010 Results
 
 
FMC will conduct its third quarter conference call and webcast at 11:00 a.m. ET on Thursday, October 28, 2010. This event will be available live and as a replay on the web at . Prior to the conference call, the company will also provide supplemental information on the web including its 2010 Outlook Statement, definitions of non-GAAP terms and reconciliations of non-GAAP figures to the nearest available GAAP term.
http://www.fmc.com
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs over 4,800 people throughout the world. The company operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2009 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended September 30, 2010, include charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Barcelona, Spain, facility, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.0 million). We also incurred charges associated with continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge ($1.3 million). Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended September 30, 2010, include charges associated with a collaboration and license agreement in our Agricultural Products segment ($0.5 million), charges relating to the accrual of interest associated with a European Commission fine currently being appealed in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($0.5 million) and other miscellaneous net charges ($0.4 million).
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, include charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Barcelona, Spain, facility, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($10.6 million) and the realignment of our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($6.1 million). Offsetting these charges is the reversal of a previously recorded loss contingency as part of the restructuring at our Peroxygens facility in Santa Clara, Mexico, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.1 million-gain) and income of $1.1 million primarily representing a reduction of previously recorded retirement obligations at our Bayport butyllithium facility which is part of our Specialty Chemicals segment. We also incurred charges associated with continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge ($9.7 million) and severance charges primarily in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($2.3 million). Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, include charges associated with certain rights acquired for an herbicide compound still under development in our Agricultural Products segment ($5.7 million), net charges primarily related to a legal settlement in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.5 million), charges relating to the accrual of interest associated with a European Commission fine currently being appealed in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.3 million) and other miscellaneous net charges ($0.7 million).
2009
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended September 30, 2009, include charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Barcelona, Spain, facility, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($5.5 million), our Bayport butyllithium facility which is part of our Specialty Chemicals segment ($0.1 million) and continued charges related to the closure of our Baltimore agricultural chemicals facility ($0.2 million). We also incurred charges related to the realignment of our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($3.6 million). Additionally, restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended September 30, 2009, include severance charges in our Industrial Chemicals segment and Specialty Chemicals segment ($5.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively), asset abandonment charges in our Industrial Chemicals segment and Specialty Chemicals segment ($1.1 million and $0.5 million, respectively) and charges associated with a collaboration and license agreement in our Agricultural Products segment ($1.0 million). We also recorded approximately $21.0 million in connection with the resolution of a regulatory matter in our Industrial Chemicals segment. Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended September 30, 2009, include a $4.9 million net gain representing recoveries related to continuing environmental sites as a Corporate item, recognition of a net deferred gain of $2.3 million associated with our Princeton facility as a result of exiting the leases and a $0.6 million gain primarily related to an asset sale in our Industrial Chemicals segment.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2009, amounts include charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Barcelona, Spain, facility ($18.0 million) and our Peroxygens facility in Santa Clara, Mexico ($6.6 million), both of which are part of our Industrial Chemicals segment, our Bayport butyllithium facility which is part of our Specialty Chemicals segment ($7.6 million) and continued charges related to the closure of our Baltimore agricultural chemicals facility ($1.5 million). We also incurred charges related to the realignment of our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($9.9 million). Additionally, restructuring and other charges (income) for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, include severance charges in our Industrial Chemicals segment and Specialty Chemicals segment ($9.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively), asset abandonment charges in our Agricultural Products segment, Industrial Chemicals segment and Specialty Chemicals segment ($2.6 million, $2.6 million and $1.6 million, respectively) and charges associated with a collaboration and license agreement in our Agricultural Products segment ($2.0 million). We also recorded approximately $21.0 million in connection with the resolution of a regulatory matter in our Industrial Chemicals segment. Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, include a $0.9 million net gain representing recoveries related to continuing environmental sites as a Corporate item, recognition of a net deferred gain of $2.3 million associated with our Princeton facility as a result of exiting the leases and a $3.1 million of other charges primarily representing settlements with state authorities for property claims and adjustments related to previously recorded restructuring reserves.
 
 
 
 
 
Amounts for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, related to Agricultural Products ($6.7 million), Specialty Chemicals ($5.4 million), Industrial Chemicals ($14.8 million) and Corporate ($8.8 million). Amounts for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, related to Agricultural Products ($6.1 million), Specialty Chemicals ($21.3 million), Industrial Chemicals ($58.1 million) and Corporate ($0.6 million-gain).
See Note (b) to the schedule "Reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to FMC Stockholders (GAAP) to After-Tax Income from Continuing Operations Excluding Restructuring and Other Income and Charges, Attributable to FMC Stockholders (Non-GAAP)" for further details on the components that make up this line item.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


