FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20100504093629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 3, 2010, FMC Corporation issued a press release announcing the financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 4, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Jim Fitzwater  215.299.6633
Media contact:
Brennen Arndt  215.299.6266
Investor relations contact:
FMC Corporation Announces First Quarter 2010 Results
 
 Agricultural Products segment earnings of $92.8 million level with prior-year quarter
 Specialty Chemicals segment earnings of $40.8 million up 7 percent
 Industrial Chemicals segment earnings of $34.5 million up 51 percent
 
 FMC Corporation (NYSE:FMC) today reported net income of $77.4 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010, versus net income of $69.1 million, or $0.94 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009. Net income in the current quarter included restructuring and other income and charges of $21.0 million after-tax, or charges of $0.28 per diluted share, versus restructuring and other income and charges of $20.2 million after-tax, or charges of $0.28 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Excluding these items in both periods, the company earned $1.34 per diluted share in the current quarter, an increase of 10 percent versus $1.22 per diluted share in the prior-year quarter. First quarter revenue of $756.5 million was 10 percent higher than $690.5 million in the prior year.
PHILADELPHIA, May 3, 2010
Pierre Brondeau, FMC president and chief executive officer, said, "The year is off to a good start with our first quarter performance. We realized continued strong sales growth in Agricultural Products and Specialty Chemicals and demand recovery in Industrial Chemicals. Agricultural Products' sales growth was driven by gains in Latin America, Europe and Asia. Specialty Chemicals' sales increased as the result of strong commercial performance in BioPolymer and volume growth in lithium. Industrial Chemicals' sales benefited from volume growth across most businesses."
 
Page 2/ FMC Corporation Announces First Quarter 2010 Results
 
Revenue in Agricultural Products of $304.6 million increased 17 percent versus the prior-year quarter led by sales gains in Latin America, particularly in Brazil due to improved market conditions in several key crops, including sugarcane and cotton, and growth from new and recently introduced products. Sales in North America declined modestly due to less favorable weather conditions. In Europe, sales increased due primarily to a shift in sales from the second quarter. Sales in Asia improved reflecting growth in several key countries. Segment earnings of $92.8 million were level to a year ago, as sales growth was offset by one-time distribution costs, the absence of the prior-year benefit of lower cost inventory, less favorable mix and increased spending on growth initiatives.
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $202.6 million, up 16 percent versus the year-ago quarter driven primarily by volume growth across food, pharmaceutical and lithium businesses. Segment earnings of $40.8 million were 7 percent higher than the year-ago quarter, as sales growth and productivity gains were partially offset by the absence of the prior-year benefit of lower cost inventory.
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals of $250.1 million declined 2 percent from the prior-year quarter as volume gains in soda ash, particularly in export markets, peroxygens and phosphates were more than offset by reduced phosphates, hydrogen peroxide and soda ash export selling prices and lower electricity sales stemming from the sale of a Spanish cogeneration facility in 2009. Segment earnings of $34.5 million were 51 percent higher than the year-ago quarter as a result of the broad-based demand recovery, the absence of higher cost inventory in the prior year and the benefit of a one-time sales contract settlement.
Corporate expense was $12.1 million, versus $11.3 million in the prior-year quarter. Interest expense, net, was $10.0 million, as compared to $7.0 million in the year-ago quarter. On March 31, 2010, gross consolidated debt was $699.9 million, and debt, net of cash, was $613.2 million. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $33.9 million and capital expenditures were $31.0 million.
Page 3/ FMC Corporation Announces First Quarter 2010 Results
 
Outlook
Regarding the outlook for 2010, Brondeau said, "For the full year 2010, we have raised our outlook for earnings before restructuring and other income and charges to $4.45 to $4.80 per diluted share. We anticipate delivering another year of strong performance and are pleased with the progress of each of our businesses. We expect Agricultural Products to deliver its eighth straight year of record earnings while increasing investment in innovation and continuing to deliver high profit margins. In Specialty Chemicals, we expect BioPolymer to achieve its sixth straight year of record earnings while lithium realizes significant earnings improvement primarily through volume-driven sales growth. In Industrial Chemicals, we expect to record the second highest profit in the past 10 years on the strength of a significant volume rebound from the prior year.
"For the second quarter of 2010, we expect earnings before restructuring and other income and charges of $1.15 to $1.25 per diluted share. In Agricultural Products, we look for earnings to be 15 to 20 percent lower versus the year-ago quarter, driven by a shift in sales in Europe, the absence of the prior-year benefit of lower cost inventory and increased spending on growth initiatives. In Specialty Chemicals, we expect earnings to increase 25 to 30 percent compared to the prior-year quarter, driven by continued strong commercial performance in BioPolymer, significant demand recovery in lithium primaries and higher selling prices in lithium specialties. In Industrial Chemicals, earnings are expected to increase 75 to 85 percent versus the year-ago quarter, as volume growth across the segment and the absence of higher cost inventory in the prior year are only partially offset by reduced selling prices."
FMC will conduct its first quarter conference call and webcast at 11:00 a.m. ET on Tuesday, May 4, 2010. This event will be available live and as a replay on the web at . Prior to the conference call, the company will also provide supplemental information on the web including its 2010 Outlook Statement, definitions of non-GAAP terms and reconciliations of non-GAAP figures to the nearest available GAAP term.
http://www.fmc.com
Page 4/ FMC Corporation Announces First Quarter 2010 Results
 
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs over 4,800 people throughout the world. The company operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2009 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended March 31, 2010, include charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Barcelona, Spain, facility, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($8.6 million) and the realignment of our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($4.6 million). We also incurred charges associated with continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge ($2.4 million). Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended March 31, 2010, include severance charges in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.0 million) and other miscellaneous net charges of $0.1 million.
2009
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended March 31, 2009, include charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Peroxygens facility in Santa Clara, Mexico, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($6.5 million) and our Bayport butyllithium facility which is part of our Specialty Chemicals segment ($4.1 million). We also incurred charges related to the realignment of our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($2.8 million) and continued charges related to the closure of our Baltimore agricultural chemicals facility ($0.8 million). Additionally, remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended March 31, 2009, primarily include severance charges in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.5 million), asset abandonment charges in our Agricultural Products segment and Industrial Chemicals segment ($2.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively), charges associated with further rights acquired from a collaboration and license agreement in our Agricultural Products segment ($1.0 million) and charges associated with continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge ($1.2 million). Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended March 31, 2009, include $0.7 million of other charges primarily related to our Industrial Chemicals segment.
 
 
 
 
See Note (b) to the schedule "Reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to FMC Stockholders (GAAP) to After-Tax Income from Continuing Operations Excluding Restructuring and Other Income and Charges, Attributable to FMC Stockholders (Non-GAAP)" for further details on the components that make up this line item.
 
 
 
 
 
 


