FILE:FMC/FMC-8K-20110208081749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On February 7, 2011, FMC Corporation issued a press release announcing the financial results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
As noted in this press release, starting with our outlook for 2011, we will exclude from earnings before restructuring and other income and charges the impacts of the amortization of gains and losses on our accumulated benefit obligations and return on assets of our defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefits. We are making this change as we believe that removing the impact of the amortizations from this measure provides a better understanding of the underlying profitability of our businesses and provides better period-over-period comparability. Attached as Exhibit 99.2 is a schedule presenting our restructuring and other income and charges for the last four quarters of 2010, full year 2010 and full year 2009 adjusted for these items.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 8, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
FMC Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
 
 
 
 FMC Corporation (NYSE:FMC) today reported a net loss of $53.5 million, or $0.74 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2010, versus net income of $62.1 million, or $0.85 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2009. Net income in the current quarter included restructuring and other income and charges of $131.4 million after-tax, or charges of $1.81 per diluted share, primarily related to the shutdown of the phosphates business located in Huelva, Spain, versus restructuring and other income and charges of $6.8 million after-tax, or charges of $0.09 per diluted share, in the prior-year quarter. Excluding these items in both periods, the company earned $1.07 per diluted share in the current quarter, an increase of 14 percent versus $0.94 per diluted share in the prior-year quarter. Fourth quarter revenue of $810.5 million was 12 percent higher than $722.1 million in the prior year.
PHILADELPHIA, February 7, 2011
Pierre Brondeau, FMC president, chief executive officer and chairman, said, "Our fourth quarter results provided a strong finish to a record year for FMC. Agricultural Products realized higher sales in all major product lines and most key regions. Specialty Chemicals' performance was driven by broad-based volume growth and operating cost reductions in lithium. Industrial Chemicals' performance met expectations and is now strategically realigned and well positioned to deliver sustained higher margins, greater earnings stability and superior return on net assets."
 
Page 2/ FMC Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
Revenue in Agricultural Products of $334.5 million increased 24 percent versus the prior-year quarter driven by higher sales in all major product lines and in most key markets. In Latin America, sales increased significantly driven by strong demand in key market segments, particularly cotton and sugarcane, as well as overall growth in planted acres. In Asia, sales gains were driven by continued strong demand and favorable weather conditions. As expected, sales in Europe declined as a result of the ongoing re-registration process for bifenthrin. In North America, sales increased due to better weather conditions than a year ago and higher late-season herbicide sales. Segment earnings of $62.0 million increased 32 percent versus the year-ago quarter, as a result of the sales growth and favorable product mix, partially offset by higher spending on growth initiatives.
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $205.1 million, up 6 percent versus the year-ago quarter as a result of a robust demand recovery in lithium and favorable commercial performance in BioPolymer, partially offset by reduced selling prices in lithium primaries. Segment earnings of $46.1 million increased 15 percent driven by higher sales, operating cost reductions in lithium and a favorable mix in BioPolymer's food ingredients business, partially offset by higher raw material costs in BioPolymer.
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals of $273.1 million increased 5 percent from the year-ago quarter, driven by volume growth in soda ash, particularly for export, and across global peroxygens product lines, partially offset by the absence of sales from Foret's sulfur derivatives business, which ceased operations in the second quarter last year. Segment earnings of $28.6 million declined 13 percent as expected, as the sales gain was more than offset by planned maintenance outages, including the successful completion of the boiler repair at our Wyoming soda ash facility early in the fourth quarter.
 
Page 3/ FMC Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
Corporate expense was $20.2 million as compared to $12.2 million in the prior-year quarter. Interest expense, net, was $10.3 million versus $7.3 million in the year-ago quarter. On December 31, 2010, gross consolidated debt was $637.9 million, and debt, net of cash, was $476.4 million. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $34.6 million and capital expenditures were $47.0 million.
Full-Year Results
Revenue was $3,116.3 million, an increase of 10 percent as compared with $2,826.2 million in the prior-year period. Net income was $172.5 million, a decrease of 25 percent as compared with $228.5 million in the year-earlier period. Net income in the current period included restructuring and other income and charges of $181.1 million, versus restructuring and other income and charges of $75.6 million in the prior-year period. Excluding these charges, the company earned $353.6 million in the current year, an increase of 16 percent versus $304.1 million in the prior year.
Revenue in Agricultural Products was $1,241.8 million, an increase of 18 percent versus the prior-year period, driven by strong market conditions in most regions, particularly Latin America, Asia and North America, and growth from new or recently introduced products. Segment earnings of $309.5 million increased 7 percent from a year ago, as the sales gains were partially offset by higher first-half inventory and distribution costs, increased selling and administrative expenses and higher spending on growth initiatives.
Revenue in Specialty Chemicals was $824.5 million, an increase of 10 percent above the prior-year period, led by a robust demand recovery in lithium and favorable commercial performance in BioPolymer. Segment earnings of $185.0 million increased 16 percent versus the year-earlier period as volume gains in lithium and favorable commercial performance in BioPolymer were partially offset by higher raw material costs.
 
Page 4/ FMC Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
Revenue in Industrial Chemicals was $1,054.8 million, an increase of 3 percent versus the prior-year period, as volume gains across most businesses were largely offset by reduced selling prices and lower electricity sales stemming from the sale of a Spanish cogeneration facility in 2009. Segment earnings of $122.9 million increased 37 percent versus the year-earlier period, driven by the strong demand recovery and lower raw material and energy costs, particularly phosphate rock, which more than offset lower selling prices across the segment.
Corporate expense was $63.0 million as compared to $44.1 million in the year-earlier period. Interest expense, net, was $39.3 million versus $27.0 million in the prior-year period. For the period, depreciation and amortization was $133.6 million and capital expenditures were $142.3 million.
Outlook Adjusted for Pensions
Starting with our outlook for 2011, we will exclude from earnings before restructuring and other income and charges the impacts of the amortization of gains and losses on our accumulated benefit obligations and return on assets of our defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefits. In the future we will define this to be "adjusted earnings."
Remaining in our adjusted earnings will be the current year expense of our benefit obligations under those plans. Had we adopted this definition in 2010 our full-year earnings per share, before restructuring and other income and expense, would have been 11 cents higher than reported, or $4.95. We are making this change as we believe that removing the impact of the amortizations provides a better understanding of the underlying profitability of our business and provides better period-over-period comparability. Further details on these changes, including the changes by quarter in 2010 are in our Non-GAAP disclosures on our website, www.fmc.com/investor relations.
 
Page 5/ FMC Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
Outlook
Regarding the outlook for 2011, Brondeau said, "We plan to deliver another record year. For the full year 2011, we expect adjusted earnings of $5.35 to $5.75 per diluted share, a 12 percent increase above our adjusted 2010 earnings of $4.95 per diluted share. Our Agricultural Products segment expects to achieve its eighth straight year of record earnings, up in the high-single digits versus a year ago due to expected strong market conditions and growth in new and recently introduced products while increasing spending on growth initiatives. Specialty Chemicals' segment earnings are projected to increase in the low teens reflecting higher sales across all businesses and continued productivity improvements. BioPolymer is expected to achieve its seventh straight year of record earnings driven by continued strong commercial performance, while lithium benefits from higher selling prices, favorable mix and operating cost reductions. In our Industrial Chemicals segment, we expect earnings to be up in the mid-twenties driven by higher selling prices and volume growth augmented by the benefit of cost reduction initiatives.
"For the first quarter of 2011, we expect adjusted earnings of $1.35 to $1.50 per diluted share. Agricultural Products' segment earnings are expected to be level to the prior-year quarter, as the absence of bifenthrin volumes in Europe due to the ongoing re-registration process and higher spending on growth initiatives offset growth in other regions. Specialty Chemicals' segment earnings are expected to be up in the low teens reflecting higher sales across all businesses and continued productivity improvements. In our Industrial Chemicals segment, we expect earnings to increase approximately 10 percent driven by volume growth and higher selling prices across its businesses."
FMC will conduct its fourth quarter conference call and webcast at 11:00 a.m. ET on Tuesday, February 8, 2011. This event will be available live and as a replay on the web at . Prior to the conference call, the company will also provide supplemental information on the web including its 2011 Outlook Statement, definitions of non-GAAP terms and reconciliations of non-GAAP figures to the nearest available GAAP term.
http://www.fmc.com
 
Page 6/ FMC Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
FMC Corporation is a diversified chemical company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. The company employs over 4,800 people throughout the world. The company operates its businesses in three segments: Agricultural Products, Specialty Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Act of 1995: Statements in this news release that are forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties concerning specific factors described in FMC Corporation's 2009 Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Such information contained herein represents management's best judgment as of the date hereof based on information currently available. FMC Corporation does not intend to update this information and disclaims any legal obligation to the contrary. Historical information is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended December 31, 2010, include charges from the restructuring activities associated with our Huelva, Spain facility, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($110.4 million), charges associated with our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($1.1 million), additional miscellaneous exit and disposal costs related to our Santa Clara, Mexico facility, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($0.1 million) and severance charges related to other restructuring activities in Agricultural Products, Industrial Chemicals and Specialty Chemical segment ($0.6 million, $2.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively). Offsetting these charges is income from the sale of land lease rights related to our Barcelona, Spain, facility, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($3.7 million-gain). We also incurred charges associated with continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge ($4.5 million). Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended December 31, 2010, include charges relating to the accrual of interest associated with a European Commission fine currently being appealed in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($0.6 million).
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, include charges from the restructuring activities associated with our Huelva, Spain facility ($110.4 million) and net charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Barcelona, Spain, facility ($6.9 million), both of which are part of our Industrial Chemicals segment, the realignment of our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($7.2 million) and primarily severance charges related to other restructuring activities in Agricultural Products, Industrial Chemicals and Specialty Chemical segment ($0.6 million, $4.0 million and $0.2 million, respectively). Offsetting these charges is the reversal of a previously recorded loss contingency as part of the restructuring at our Peroxygens facility in Santa Clara, Mexico, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.1 million-gain) and a reduction of previously recorded retirement obligations at our Bayport butyllithium facility which is part of our Specialty Chemicals segment ($1.0 million-gain). We also incurred charges associated with continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge ($14.2 million). Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, include charges associated with certain rights acquired for an herbicide compound still under development in our Agricultural Products segment ($5.7 million), charges related to a legal settlement in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.5 million), charges relating to the accrual of interest associated with a European Commission fine currently being appealed in our Industrial Chemicals segment ($1.9 million) and other miscellaneous net charges of $1.4 million.
2009
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended December 31, 2009, include charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Barcelona, Spain facility, which is part of our Industrial Chemicals segment ($7.8 million) and our Lithium metal production unit at our Bromborough, UK plant which is part of our Specialty Chemicals segment ($5.6 million). We also incurred charges related to the realignment of our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($3.4 million). Additionally, restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended December 31, 2009, include severance charges in our Industrial Chemicals segment and Specialty Chemicals segment ($1.4 million and $0.6 million, respectively) and charges associated with continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge ($21.1 million). We also recorded approximately $3.3 million in connection with the resolution of a litigation matter in our Industrial Chemicals segment. Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the three months ended December 31, 2009, include $3.0 million of charges representing settlements with state authorities for property claims and $1.7 million of other charges primarily related to our Industrial Chemicals segment.
Restructuring and other charges (income) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, include charges related to the closure of our manufacturing operations at our Barcelona, Spain facility ($25.8 million) and our Peroxygens facility in Santa Clara, Mexico ($6.7 million), both of which are part of our Industrial Chemicals segment, as well as our Bayport butyllithium facility ($7.5 million) and our Lithium metal production unit at our Bromborough, UK plant ($7.4 million), both of which are part of our Specialty Chemicals segment. We also incurred charges related to the realignment of our Alginates manufacturing operations in our Specialty Chemicals segment ($13.3 million) and continued charges related to the closure of our Baltimore agricultural chemicals facility ($1.8 million). Additionally, restructuring and other charges (income) for the year ended December 31,2009, include severance charges in our Industrial Chemicals segment and Specialty Chemicals segment ($11.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively), asset abandonment charges in our Agricultural Products segment, Industrial Chemicals segment and Specialty Chemicals segment ($2.6 million, $2.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively) and charges associated with a collaboration and license agreement in our Agricultural Products segment ($2.0 million). We also recorded approximately $24.3 million in connection with the resolution of a litigation and a regulatory matter in our Industrial Chemicals segment. Remaining restructuring and other charges (income) for the year ended December 31, 2009, include $20.2 million of charges related to continuing environmental sites as a Corporate charge, recognition of a net deferred gain of $2.3 million associated with our Princeton facility as a result of exiting the leases, $5.6 million of charges representing settlements with state authorities for property claims and $1.7 million of other charges primarily representing adjustments related to previously recorded restructuring reserves.
 
 
 
 
 
Amounts for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, related to Agricultural Products ($7.3 million), Specialty Chemicals ($6.7 million), Industrial Chemicals ($124.6 million) and Corporate ($13.3 million).
Amounts for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, related to Agricultural Products ($6.1 million), Industrial Chemicals ($71.8 million), Specialty Chemicals ($31.0 million) and Corporate ($23.9 million).
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
The sum of quarterly adjusted earnings per common share may differ from the full-year amount.
 
Beginning in 2011, FMC will make an adjustment to guidance and reporting of for the amortization of certain pension and other post employment benefits.
After-tax income from continuing operations excluding restructuring and other income and charges (adjusted earnings)
Similar to a number of other company announcements for Q4 2010, FMC will change adjusted earnings to exclude the amortization of past gains and losses in our defined benefit plans, which are predominantly in the United States. The change is being made since management believes that removing the impact of the amortizations provides a better understanding of the underlying profitability of the business and enhances period-over-period comparability.
Reporting of Service Costs and Plan Amendments Amortization will continue to be reported in our adjusted earnings. These elements best reflect the current year costs to FMC businesses for the employment benefits provided. Excluded from future adjusted earnings will be those costs that reflect the adjustments of accumulated obligations and returns on investments. Such costs can vary significantly from period to period based on the actuarial assumptions used and asset returns as of the balance sheet date. The impact of these changes, both positive and negative, are currently amortized through future earnings such that charges may continue to be taken well after the event that created them. Each year a new layer of amortizations may be added on top of those already existing, adding to the difficulty of assessing their impact on true underlying business performance.
This schedule presents the last four quarters of 2010, full year 2010 and full year 2009, adjusted for these items.


