FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20050223083747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
February 23, 2005For 7:00 am EST Release
 
 
- Lowe's Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW), the world's second largest home improvement retailer, today reported net earnings of $508 million for the quarter ended January 28, 2005, a 26.7 percent increase over the same period a year ago. Diluted earnings per share increased 30.6 percent to $0.64 from $0.49 in the fourth quarter of 2003. For the fiscal year ended January 28, 2005, net earnings grew 18.0 percent to $2.18 billion while diluted earnings per share increased 18.9 percent to $2.71. Sales for the quarter increased 17.9 percent to $8.55 billion, up from $7.25 billion in the fourth quarter of 2003. Comparable store sales for the fourth quarter increased 6.9 percent. For the year ended January 28, 2005, sales increased 18.2 percent to $36.5 billion. Comparable store sales increased 6.6 percent for fiscal 2004. "The results our stores delivered in the fourth quarter highlighted a great year for Lowe's," commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowe's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "During the year we completed the successful rollout of our new installed sales model, enhanced our special order sales offering, and continued to improve our ability to serve commercial business customers. "In addition, Lowe's invested over $400 million in our existing stores to ensure the bright, clean, inspirational shopping environment remains consistent across our entire chain," explained Niblock. "These initiatives, and a strong culture of customer service, will be the foundation of our future growth." During the quarter, Lowe's opened 56 new stores. As of January 28, 2005, Lowe's operated 1,087 stores in 48 states representing 123.7 million square feet of retail selling space, a 13.8 percent increase over last year. As required by Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 04-8, , the company has included in its diluted earnings per share calculation shares associated with its contingently convertible debt issued in October 2001. As also required by EITF 04-8, the company has restated diluted earnings per share for all prior periods back to the issuance of this debt to conform to this new accounting standard. The effect of the adoption was to increase the number of shares used in the computation of diluted earnings per share by approximately 10 million shares in the affected periods. The adoption of EITF 04-8 reduced earnings per share by $0.01 and $0.03 for our fiscal fourth quarter and year ended January 28, 2005, respectively. Earnings per share were reduced by $0.01 and $0.02 for our fiscal fourth quarter and year ending January 30, 2004, respectively. Following disclosures by a number of public companies regarding adjustments to their accounting practices for leases, Lowe's has reviewed its accounting policies for leases. Subsequent to this review, the company, in consultation with its independent registered public accounting firm and following discussions with the audit committee of the board of directors, has concluded to restate Lowe's prior period financial statements to correct errors resulting from its accounting for leases. In the restatement, Lowe's has accelerated its depreciation expense for lease assets to generally align the depreciable lives of those assets with the initial lease term. Lowe's is also revising its calculation of rent expense (and the related deferred rent liability) for its ground leases by including in its straight line rent expense calculations any "rent holiday" period those ground leases allow while a Lowe's store is being constructed on the leased property. These non-cash charges will not have any impact on Lowe's historical or future cash flows, sales or comparable store sales. They also will not increase the amount of rent expense or depreciation over the term of the lease. These changes to our accounting for leases reduced diluted earnings per share by less than $.01 in our fiscal fourth quarter and by $.02 in our fiscal year ended January 28, 2005. Restating our prior period financial statements reduced our diluted earnings per share by $.01 in our prior year fiscal fourth quarter and by $.04 in our prior fiscal year. The effect of adopting EITF 04-8 and the adjustments made in the restatement to reflect the changes in our accounting for leases are reflected in the unaudited financial statements attached to this earnings release. The effect of both is also reflected in the net earnings and earnings per share information for all periods that is reported in this release. A conference call to discuss fourth quarter 2004 operating results is scheduled for today (Wednesday, February 23) at 9:00 a.m. EST. Please dial 888-817-4020 (international callers dial 706-679-3245) to participate. A webcast of the call will take place simultaneously and can be accessed by visiting Lowe's website at www.Lowes.com/investor and clicking on Lowe's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2004 Earnings Conference Call Webcast. A replay of the call will be archived on Lowes.com.  
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share
 
This outlook is based on current expectations and includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the company currently believes that comments reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct.. (comparisons to first quarter 2004)
First Quarter 2005
The company expects to open 28 new stores reflecting square footage growth of 13 to 14 percent
Total sales are expected to increase approximately 15 percent
The company expects to report a comparable store sales increase of 5 to 6 percent
Operating margin (defined as gross margin less SG&A and depreciation) is expected to increase approximately 130 basis points
Store opening costs are expected to be approximately $23 million
Diluted earnings per share of $0.75 to $0.77 are expected
Lowe's first quarter ends on April 29, 2005 with operating results to be publicly released on Monday, May 16, 2005
a 53-week Year (comparisons to fiscal year 2004 - a 52-week year)
-
Fiscal Year 2005
The company expects to open 150 stores in 2005 reflecting total square footage growth of 13 to 14 percent
Total sales are expected to increase approximately 17 percent for the year
The company expects to report a comparable store sales increase of approximately 5 percent
Operating margin (defined as gross margin less SG&A and depreciation) is expected to increase approximately 20 basis points
Store opening costs are expected to be approximately $127 million
Diluted earnings per share of $3.25 to $3.34 are expected for the fiscal year ending February 3, 2006
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). Statements of the company's expectations for sales growth, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, demand for services, and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute "forward-looking statements" under the Act. Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide-variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, fluctuations in and the overall condition of the U.S. economy, environment affecting new store development, the company's ability to attract, train, and retain highly-qualified personnel, stability of costs and availability of sourcing channels, the company's ability to manage its growth and respond to competition, impact of regulatory and legal matters, and the company's ability to absorb lost sales resulting from unanticipated weather conditions. Additional information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties are provided in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this release and the company does not assume any obligation to update any such statements.
 
 
With fiscal year 2004 sales of $36.5 billion, Lowe's Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 11 million customers a week at more than 1,075 home improvement stores in 48 states. Based in Mooresville, N.C., the 59-year old company is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
(R)
 
In Millions, Except Per Share Data
Lowe's Companies, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Current and Retained Earnings
 
 
 
In Millions, Except Per Share Data
Lowe's Companies, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Current and Retained Earnings
 
 
 
 
 
In Millions, Except Per Share Data
Lowe's Companies, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Actual and Pro Forma (Unaudited)
 
 
 
In Millions, Except Par Value Data
Lowe's Companies, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
 
In Millions
Lowe's Companies, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


