FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20060605170748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.03 AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS
 
On May 30, 2006, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) filed an amendment to its Articles of Incorporation (the "Amendment").  The Amendment increases the Company's authority to issue shares of its Common Stock from 2,800,000,000 shares to 5,600,000,000 shares.  The Amendment was filed in connection with the two-for-one slit of the Company's common shares that was approved by the Company's Board of Directors on May 25, 2006.  The effective date of the Amendment is 5 p.m. June 16, 2006, which is the record date for the two-for-one split.
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
 
On May 25, 2006, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the approval by the Board of Directors of a. 
two-for-one split of the Company's common shares
The Board also declared a 67 percent increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.10 per share; $0.05 per share on a post-split basis.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)
 
EXHIBITS
3.1 Articles of Amendment to Restated and Amended Charter of Lowe's Companies, Inc.
 
99.1 Press Release dated May 25, 2006, announcing the approval by the Board of Directors of a
two-for-one split of the Company's common shares and an increase in the 
quarterly cash dividend.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
The undersigned corporation hereby submits these Articles of Amendment for the purpose of amending its Restated and Amended Charter:
 
1.
 
The name of the Corporation is
 
 
2.
 
The Restated and Amended Charter is amended as follows:
 
The first paragraph of Article 4 of the Restated and Amended Charter is struck out and the following is substituted therefor:
 
4.
 
Authorized Stock
. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock of a par value of $5 per share and 5,600,000,000 shares of Common Stock of a par value of $.50 per share.
 
3.
 
No shares of Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding.
 
4. Upon effectiveness of these Articles of Amendment, each issued and each unissued share of Common Stock shall be changed into two shares of Common Stock. The additional shares of Common Stock shall be issued without certificates. The Corporation shall deliver to each record holder of Common Stock, within a reasonable time after the additional shares are issued, a written statement of the information required to be on certificates for the additional shares pursuant to North Carolina Business Corporations Act Section 55-6-26.
 
5.
The foregoing amendment was adopted on May 25, 2006, by the Board of Directors of the Corporation acting pursuant to North Carolina Business Corporations Act Section 55-10-2(4) without shareholder action.
6. These Articles of Amendment shall be effective as of 5:00 p.m. on June 16, 2006.
 
 
Dated: May 25, 2006
 
 
 
  
   
LOWES COMPANIES, INC.
       By:
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
/s/ Ross W. McCanless
 
Name:
   
    
    
    
   
 
Ross W. McCanless
Title:
   
    
    
    
   
 
Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and
Secretary

 
For 9:15 a.m. EDT Release
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. - The board of directors of Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW) announced today it has approved a two-for-one split of its common shares. Shareholders will receive one additional share for each share held as of the June 16, 2006 record date.
 
The additional shares will be issued on June 30, 2006. This is the 12th stock split since Lowe's became a publicly traded company on October 10, 1961. As of May 5, 2006, Lowe's had approximately 777 million common shares outstanding. Upon completion of the split, the number will increase to approximately 1.55 billion shares.
 
The Board also declared a 67 percent increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.10 per share; $0.05 per share on a post-split basis. This dividend will be paid on August 4, 2006 to shareholders of record on July 21, 2006.
 
Todays stock split allows greater opportunity for stock ownership by our employees and customers, and our dividend increase demonstrates our commitment to returning capital to shareholders, said Robert A. Niblock, Lowes chairman, president and CEO.
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act).  Statements of the companys expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, demand for services, and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute forward-looking statements under the Act.  Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide-variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements
including, but not limited to, c
hanges in general economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency fluctuations, fuel costs, and other factors which can negatively affect our customers as well as our ability to: (i) respond to decreases in the number of new housing starts and the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and develop new sites for store development; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address legal and regulatory matters; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions
. 
For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the descriptions of material changes, if any, in those Risk Factors included in our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
With fiscal year 2005 sales of $43.2 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 12 million customers a week at more than 1,250 home improvement stores in 49 states. Based in Mooresville, N.C., the 60-year old company is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.


