FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20060821081458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On August 21, 2006, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Companys financial results for the quarter ended August 4, 2006.
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
 
On August 21, 2006, Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the approval of an increase in its current share repurchase program of up to $2 billion through fiscal 2008, effective immediately.  The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)
 
EXHIBITS
99.1 Press Release dated August 21, 2006, announcing the financial results of the Company for its second quarter ended August 4, 2006.
 
99.2 Press Release dated August 21, 2006, announcing an increase in the Company's share repurchase program and the declaration of a quarterly cash dividend.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
August 21, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 7:00 am EDT Release
 
 
Fiscal 2006 annual and fourth quarter comparisons will be negatively impacted by a 52 versus 53 week and 13 versus 14 week comparison, respectively.  In addition, our 2006 quarterly comparisons will be impacted by a shift in comparable weeks to 2005.  This week shift positively impacts the first quarter and is offset by negative impacts in the second and fourth quarters.  The week shift does not impact comparable store sales results. Our 2006 guidance contemplates these factors.
 
Third Quarter 2006
(comparisons to third quarter 2005)
Fiscal Year 2006 - a 52-week Year
(comparisons to fiscal year 2005 - a 53-week year)
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act).  Statements of the companys expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, demand for services, and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute forward-looking statements under the Act.  Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide-variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements
including, but not limited to, c
hanges in general economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency fluctuations, fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income and other factors which can negatively affect our customers as well as our ability to: (i) respond to decreases in the number of new housing starts and the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and develop new sites for store development; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address legal and regulatory matters; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions
. 
For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the descriptions of any material changes in those Risk Factors included in our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this release and the company does not assume any obligation to update any such statements.
 
With fiscal year 2005 sales of $43.2 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 12 million customers a week at more than 1,275 home improvement stores in 49 states. Based in Mooresville, N.C., the 60-year old company is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
August 21, 2006
For 8:00 am EST Release
 
 
Mooresville, N.C., August 21-
 
The Board of Directors of Lowe's Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW) has approved
 
an increase in its current share repurchase program of up to $2 billion through fiscal 2008, effective immediately
.
Since 2004, the company has repurchased $3 billion of its shares which exhausted its prior repurchase authorization. This program is intended to be implemented through purchases made from time to time either in the open market or through private transactions, in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission requirements. As of August 4, 2006 the company had 1.54 billion shares outstanding.
Additionally, the Board has declared a quarterly cash dividend of five cents ($0.05) per share, payable November 3, 2006, to shareholders of record as of October 20, 2006. Lowe's has paid a cash dividend each quarter since going public in 1961.
"With the strength of our balance sheet, we believe the most efficient way to return capital to our shareholders is through ongoing dividend payments and share repurchases, commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowe's chairman, president and CEO. The increased authorization in the stock repurchase program further underscores our continued confidence in the companys prospects for long-term growth.
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Although the company believes that comments reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Possible risks and uncertainties regarding these statements include, but are not limited to, the company's determination from time to time whether to purchase any shares under the repurchase program.
 
With fiscal year 2005 sales of $43.2 billion, Lowe's Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 12 million customers a week at more than 1,275 home improvement stores in 49 states. Based in Mooresville, N.C., the 60-year old company is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.


