FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20070621160358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01  ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
 
On June 15, 2007, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Amended Facility) with Bank of America, N.A., Wachovia Bank, National Association, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., SunTrust Bank, US Bank, National Association, Merrill Lynch Bank USA and the other lenders party thereto. The Amended Facility amends and restates the credit agreement dated July 30, 2004, which provided for a revolving credit facility of up to $1 billion. The Amended Facility extends the maturity date to June 15, 2012 and provides for a revolving credit facility in the amount of $1.75 billion, which includes a letter of credit sub-facility of up to $500 million and a swingline sub-facility of up to $250 million. Borrowings are unsecured and priced based upon market conditions at the time of funding. The Amended Facility contains certain restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of a specified debt leverage ratio, borrowing rates that are more favorable than those available under the original credit agreement and permits the Company to increase the total commitments available under the Amended Facility up to $2.25 billion under certain conditions. No borrowings are currently outstanding under the Amended Facility.
 
ITEM 2.03  CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT
 
The disclosure required by this item and contained elsewhere in this Form 8-K is incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


