FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20080818082152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On August 18, 2008, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Companys financial results for the quarter ended August 1, 2008.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)
 
EXHIBITS
99.1 Press Release dated August 18, 2008 announcing the financial results of the Company for its second quarter ended August 1, 2008.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
                          
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   < /font>    
   
   
   
  
   
 
August 18, 2008
For 7:00 am EDT Release
 
                                                                           
 
   Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW), the worlds second largest home improvement retailer, today reported net earnings of $938 million for the quarter ended August 1, 2008, a 7.9 percent decline from the same period a year ago.  Diluted earnings per share declined 4.5 percent to $0.64 from $0.67 in the second quarter of 2007.  For the six months ended August 1, 2008, net earnings declined 12.1 percent to $1.54 billion while diluted earnings per share declined 8.7 percent to $1.05.
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Sales for the quarter increased 2.4 percent to $14.5 billion, up from $14.2 billion in the second quarter of 2007.  For the six months ended August 1, 2008, sales increased 0.7 percent to $26.5 billion.  Comparable store sales for the second quarter declined 5.3 percent and declined 6.7 percent in the first half of 2008.
Our sales results for the quarter, while better than our forecast, reflect the realities of the continuing macro economic pressures on our industry, commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowes chairman and CEO.  We saw relative strength in our seasonal sales as homeowners welcomed back spring and restored lawns and outdoor landscaping following the effects of last years drought in much of the country.  In addition, we believe our second quarter sales benefited from the economic impact of the fiscal stimulus tax rebates. Unfortunately, weakness in bigger ticket projects continues, particularly in markets most impacted by the housing downturn. 
 
Through disciplined expense controls we delivered solid earnings for the quarter, Niblock added.  We are encouraged by our results and our continued market share gains, but the macro economic factors pressuring consumers and the ongoing challenges and uncertainty of the financial markets suggest a cautious sales forecast for the balance of fiscal 2008 is prudent.  We remain focused on positioning the company for long-term success while managing through the near-term challenges of the current environment.
During the quarter, Lowes opened 23 new stores.  As of August 1, 2008, Lowes operated 1,577 stores in the United States and Canada representing 178.6 million square feet of retail selling space, a 10.5 percent increase over last year.
A conference call to discuss second quarter 2008 operating results is scheduled for today (Monday, August 18) at 9:00 am EDT.  Please dial 888-817-4020 (international callers dial 706-679-8762) to participate.  A webcast of the call will take place simultaneously and can be accessed by visiting Lowes website at www.Lowes.com/investor and clicking on Lowes Second Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call Webcast.  A replay of the call will be archived on Lowes.com until November 16, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
(comparisons to third quarter 2007)
Third Quarter 2008
(comparisons to fiscal year 2007)
Fiscal Year 2008
 
 
 
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act).  Statements of the companys expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute forward-looking statements under the Act.  Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide-variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency fluctuations, higher fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income and consumer spending, declining housing turnover, the availability of mortgage financing, inflation or deflation of commodity prices and other factors which can negatively affect our customers, as well as our ability to:  (i) respond to adverse trends in the housing industry and the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and successfully develop new sites for store development particularly in major metropolitan markets; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address legal and regulatory developments; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions that could adversely affect sales.  For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the description of material changes, if any, in those Risk Factors  included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this release and the company does not assume any obligation to update any such statements.
 
 
With fiscal year 2007 sales of $48.3 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 14 million customers a week at more than 1,575 home improvement stores in the United States and Canada. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowes is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


