FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20081117081939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On November 17, 2008, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Companys financial results for the quarter ended October 31, 2008.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)
 
EXHIBITS
99.1 Press Release dated November 17, 2008 announcing the financial results of the Company for its third quarter ended October 31, 2008.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
                              
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    ;
   
   
   
  
   
 
November 17, 2008
For 7:00 am EST Release
 
               
 
   Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW), the worlds second largest home improvement retailer, today reported net earnings of $488 million for the quarter ended October 31, 2008, a 24.1 percent decline from the same period a year ago.  Diluted earnings per share declined 23.3 percent to $0.33 from $0.43 in the third quarter of 2007.  For the nine months ended October 31, 2008, net earnings declined 15.3 percent to $2.03 billion while diluted earnings per share declined 12.7 percent to $1.38.
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Sales for the quarter increased 1.4 percent to $11.7 billion, up from $11.6 billion in the third quarter of 2007.  For the nine months ended October 31, 2008, sales increased 0.9 percent to $38.2 billion.  Comparable store sales for the third quarter declined 5.9 percent and declined 6.5 percent in the first nine months of 2008.
Thanks to our employees hard work and dedication in this difficult environment, we achieved sales results within our guidance and earnings that exceeded our guidance, commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowes chairman and CEO.  During the quarter, products related to ongoing home maintenance and outdoor projects continued to perform relatively well.  Also, we experienced a hurricane-related sales lift in the Gulf Coast as residents repaired storm damage.  However, consumers continued to delay discretionary home improvement and bigger ticket purchases, which resulted in negative comparable store sales in the quarter.
We expect continued, broad-based external pressures on our industry, as rising unemployment, falling home prices, tight credit and volatile equity markets continue to erode consumer confidence and impact sales, Niblock added.  While falling energy prices and initial signs of stabilization in housing turnover should aid the consumer, we saw a decline in sales trends in the last week of October that continued into November as the overall economic outlook deteriorated.  In light of the difficult environment, we remain cautious in the near term and focused on providing great service to customers, increasing market share, controlling expenses, and appropriately managing capital expenditures to drive long-term returns for shareholders.
During the quarter, Lowes opened 39 new stores.  As of October 31, 2008, Lowes operated 1,616 stores in the United States and Canada representing 183.0 million square feet of retail selling space, a 10.2 percent increase over last year.
A conference call to discuss third quarter 2008 operating results is scheduled for today (Monday, November 17) at 9:00 am EST.  Please dial 888-817-4020 (international callers dial 706-679-8762) to participate.  A webcast of the call will take place simultaneously and can be accessed by visiting Lowes website at www.Lowes.com/investor and clicking on Lowes Third Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call Webcast.  A replay of the call will be archived on Lowes.com until February 19, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
(comparisons to fourth quarter 2007)
Fourth Quarter 2008
(comparisons to fiscal year 2007)
Fiscal Year 2008
 
 
 
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act).  Statements of the companys expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute forward-looking statements under the Act.  Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, such as rising unemployment, interest rate and currency fluctuations, higher fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income, changes in consumer spending, the availability of consumer credit and mortgage financing, changes in the rate of housing turnover, inflation or deflation of commodity prices and other factors which can negatively affect our customers, as well as our ability to:  (i) respond to adverse trends in the housing industry and the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and successfully develop new sites for store development particularly in major metropolitan markets; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address legal and regulatory developments; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions that could adversely affect sales.  For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the description of material changes, if any, in those Risk Factors  included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this release and the company does not assume any obligation to update any such statements.
 
 
With fiscal year 2007 sales of $48.3 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 14 million customers a week at more than 1,600 home improvement stores in the United States and Canada. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowes is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


