FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20080924085211.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On September 24, 2008, Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reiterating its most-recently provided sales and earnings guidance for the 2008 fiscal year and providing Outlook for fiscal 2009 and prospects for longer-term.
 
The information contained in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.  Furthermore, the information contained in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
September 24, 2008
For 7:00 a.m. EDT release
 
                 
                                                                           
 
 Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW) will discuss its current strategies for managing the business in todays challenging environment and its long-term opportunities to drive performance when the company meets with analysts and investors today in Charlotte at its annual conference.
Charlotte, NC
 
Today, Lowes reiterated its prior sales and earnings guidance for the 2008 fiscal year most recently provided in its earnings release dated August 18, 2008, which can be found in the Business Outlook section of this release.
 
Despite the intense external pressures weighing on our industry, we continue to invest in our people, processes and stores to ensure we enhance the shopping experience we provide customers, commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowes chairman and CEO.  In all sales environments, our goal is to prudently manage expenses and identify opportunities to drive efficiencies.  I am confident our heightened focus on the fundamentals, along with our ongoing investments, will continue to enable us to capitalize on opportunities both today and when the environment improves, added Niblock.
As we look past the current cycle, we believe we have initiatives that will make us more efficient and better positioned to capture profitable market share.  Additionally, based on reasonable assumptions, we will more than double our expected 2008 earnings per share over the next five years, generating significant free cash flow and delivering solid returns for shareholders. While many uncertainties in the current environment remain, I am confident the tenure of the Lowes management team provides the knowledge and experience to make appropriate decisions to manage through this cycle and position Lowes for continued long-term success.  All of these efforts will move us closer to achieving our vision of becoming customers first choice for home improvement. Niblock concluded.
During the conference, Lowe's executives will focus on key programs and initiatives to drive efficiencies, continually enhance customer service and increase market share.  Highlights of those presentations include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(comparisons to fiscal year 2007)
Fiscal Year 2008
(comparisons to fiscal year 2008)
Fiscal Year 2009
A webcast of this conference is scheduled for today (Wednesday, September 24) at 10:00 am EDT.  The webcast can be accessed by visiting Lowes website at and clicking on Lowes 2008 Analyst & Investor Conference Webcast.  A replay of the webcast will be available online shortly following the event and available until September 2009.
www.Lowes.com/investor
Lowe's fiscal third quarter ends on October 31, 2008 with operating results to be publicly released on Monday, November 17, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act).  Statements of the companys expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute forward-looking statements under the Act.  Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide-variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency fluctuations, higher fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income and consumer spending, declining housing turnover, the availability of mortgage financing, inflation or deflation of commodity prices and other factors which can negatively affect our customers, as well as our ability to:  (i) respond to adverse trends in the housing industry and the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and successfully develop new sites for store development particularly in major metropolitan markets; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address legal and regulatory developments; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions that could adversely affect sales.  For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the description of material changes, if any, in those Risk Factors  included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this release and the company does not assume any obligation to update any such statements.
With fiscal year 2007 sales of $48.3 billion, Lowe's Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 14 million customers a week at more than 1,575 home improvement stores in the United States and Canada. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowe's is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
 
 
 
 
 


