FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20090922074725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On September 22, 2009, Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reiterating its most-recently provided sales and earnings guidance for the 2009 fiscal year and providing Outlook for fiscal 2010 and prospects for longer-term.
 
The information contained in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.  Furthermore, the information contained in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
September 22, 2009
For 7:00 a.m. EDT release
 
 
 
 Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW) will discuss its current strategies for managing the business in todays challenging environment and longer-term opportunities to drive performance when the company meets with analysts and investors today in Charlotte at its annual conference.
Charlotte, NC
Today, Lowes reiterated its prior sales and earnings guidance for the 2009 fiscal year, which was provided in its August 17, 2009 earnings release. Sales and earnings guidance can be found in the Business Outlook section of this release.
Although the economic environment remains challenging, we continue to invest in our business and drive operating efficiencies to become a more efficient company and better serve the needs of home improvement customers, commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowes chairman and CEO.  Over the past three years, we have worked to strike the right balance between controlling expenses and appropriately staffing stores to maintain great customer service.  Our focus on achieving this balance enabled us to maintain profitability and positioned the company for continued success.
Although prices have declined in recent years, the home remains many consumers largest asset.  What has changed is their approach to tackling home improvement projects.  Consumers are shifting to more  do-it-yourself projects as they balance convenience with the cost of outsourcing.  Opportunity rests in our ability to understand consumers evolving needs and provide products and customer-valued solutions, Niblock concluded.
During the conference, Lowe's executives will focus on key initiatives to capitalize on market growth and changing competitive dynamics, drive efficiencies, enhance customer service and increase market share.  Highlights of those presentations include:
 
 
 
 
Lowes also told investors it has decided to close one store that it deemed not economically viable.
The decision to close a store is difficult as it affects people and the communities we serve, said Niblock.  The store in central Milwaukee has struggled since it opened in 2005 and sales have not improved over time.
The company continues to evaluate the cash flow performance of existing stores. Although there were no operating store impairment charges for the first half of the current fiscal year, the continuing uncertainty regarding the timing and strength of the economic recovery makes it possible the company will recognize impairments related to operating stores during the second half of fiscal year 2009.  While impairments for operating stores are not certain, to the extent necessary, and to provide an order of magnitude, the total is not expected to exceed $100 million.  Due to the uncertainty of possible impairments, the company has not adjusted its earnings guidance for the 2009 fiscal year.
 
 
(comparisons to fiscal year 2008)
Fiscal Year 2009
(comparisons to fiscal year 2009)
Fiscal Year 2010
A webcast of this conference is scheduled for today (Tuesday, September 22) at 10:00 am EDT.  The webcast can be accessed by visiting Lowes website at and clicking on Lowes 2009 Analyst & Investor Conference Webcast.  A replay of the webcast will be available online shortly following the event and available until September 2010.
www.Lowes.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act).  Statements of the companys expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute forward-looking statements under the Act.  Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, such as rising unemployment, interest rate and currency fluctuations, higher fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income, changes in consumer spending, the availability and increasing regulation of consumer credit and mortgage financing, changes in the rate of housing turnover, inflation or deflation of commodity prices and other factors which can negatively affect our customers, as well as our ability to:  (i) respond to adverse trends in the housing industry and the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and successfully develop new sites for store development particularly in major metropolitan markets; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address legislative and regulatory developments; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions that could adversely affect sales.  For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the description of material changes, if any, in those Risk Factors  included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this release and the company does not assume any obligation to update any such statements.
 
 
 
 
 


