FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20100511143316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01                 Other Events.
Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) has approved amendments to paragraph 14 of the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines (the Guidelines).  The amendments revise the responsibilities of the Lead Director to specify that they shall include the responsibility to approve information sent to the Board and approve meeting agendas for the Board.
A copy of paragraph 14 of the Guidelines as amended is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  The Guidelines, as amended, will be promptly reposted on the Companys web site.
Item 9.01.                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 

Exhibit 99.1
14. Lead Director
A Lead Director, who will be an Independent Director, will be elected by the Independent Directors annually at the meeting of the Board of Directors held in conjunction with the annual meeting of shareholders.  The Lead Director will (i) preside at all meetings of the Board at which the Chairman of the Board is not present, including executive sessions of the non-Management Directors; (ii) serve as a liaison between the Chairman and the Independent Directors; (iii) approve information sent to the Board; (iv) approve meeting agendas for the Board; (v) approve meeting schedules to assure that there is sufficient time for discussion of all agenda items; (vi) have the authority to call meetings of the Independent Directors; and (vii) be available for consultation and direct communication with major shareholders upon request at the direction of the Chief Executive Officer.  The Lead Director shall serve as the Chairperson of the Governance Committee.
 
 
 


