FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20100820114206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On August 20, 2010, the Board of Directors (the Board) of Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) elected Raul Alvarez, retired President and Chief Operating Officer of McDonalds Corporation, to the Companys Board as a Class I director with a term expiring at the Companys 2011 annual meeting of shareholders.  Concurrent with his election as a director, Mr. Alvarez was appointed to the Audit Committee and the Governance Committee of the Board.  There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Alvarez and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director.  Additionally, there are no transactions involving the Company and Mr. Alvarez that the Company would be required to report pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Mr. Alvarez will receive compensation in accordance with the Companys standard compensation arrangements for non-employee directors, which are described under the caption Compensation of Directors in the Companys definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 12, 2010.
A copy of the news release announcing Mr. Alvarezs election is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
(d)           Exhibits
99.1           News Release of Lowes Companies, Inc., issued August 20, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW) announced today the appointment of Raul Alvarez, 55, to its board of directors. He will serve on the boards governance and audit committees. With todays announcement, Lowes board of directors increases to 12 members, 11 of which are independent directors.
MOORESVILLE, N.C. --
Alvarez served as President and Chief Operating Officer of McDonalds Corporation from 2006 until his retirement in December 2009. He joined McDonalds in 1994 and held a variety of leadership positions during his tenure, including President of the North America and U.S. divisions as well as President of McDonalds Mexico. Before joining McDonalds, Alvarez held several leadership positions at both Wendys International, Inc. and Burger King Corporation.
Alvarez received a bachelors degree in business administration from the University of Miami.  He serves on the board of directors of Eli Lilly and Company and was most recently on the board of the National Retail Federation, Inc.
 
Raul Alvarez brings over 30 years of retail and consumer marketing experience with some of the worlds best known brands, said Robert A. Niblock, chairman and CEO.  His background in these areas, along with his international perspective and strategic planning, is highly valuable to our board.
 
With fiscal year 2009 sales of $47.2 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 15 million customers a week at more than 1,700 home improvement stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowes is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
 
 
 


