FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20100222074947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On February 22, 2010, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Companys financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended January 29, 2010.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
ITEM 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)
 
EXHIBITS
99.1 Press Release dated February 22, 2010 announcing the financial results of the Company for its fourth quarter and year ended January 29, 2010.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
February 22, 2010
For 7:00 am EST Release
Contacts:                                   Shareholders/Analysts Inquiries:                                      Media Inquiries:
                    Robbin Moore-Randolph                                                         Chris Ahearn
                     704-758-3579                                                                               704-758-2304
LOWES REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER SALES AND EARNINGS RESULTS
    
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW), the worlds second largest home improvement retailer, today reported net earnings of $205 million for the quarter ended January 29, 2010, a 26.5 percent increase from the same period a year ago.  Diluted earnings per share increased 27.3 percent to $0.14 from $0.11 in the fourth quarter of 2008.  For the fiscal year ended January 29, 2010, net earnings declined 18.8 percent to $1.78 billion and diluted earnings per share also declined 18.8 percent to $1.21.
Sales for the quarter increased 1.8 percent to $10.2 billion, up from $10.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008.  For the fiscal year ended January 29, 2010, sales declined 2.1 percent to $47.2 billion.  Comparable store sales for the fourth quarter declined 1.6 percent and declined 6.7 percent for fiscal 2009.
Our fourth quarter results, including sales and earnings that exceeded our guidance, suggest the worst of the economic cycle is likely behind us, commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowes chairman and CEO.  While the psychological impact of falling home prices and an uncertain employment picture continue to weigh on consumers, improving comparable store sales trends, including improvement in many bigger-ticket, project categories, provides an encouraging sign that consumers are gaining the confidence to take on more discretionary projects.
Our advancing customer service scores, driven by our knowledgeable and engaged workforce, have been a key factor in Lowes solid market share gains throughout this downturn, Niblock added.  Our commitment to service, shared by our more than 238,000 employees, positions Lowes to best capitalize on the markedly different competitive landscape we will experience as the economy bottoms and home improvement demand improves.
During the quarter, the company repurchased $500 million, or 21.9 million shares, of the companys common stock.  The $1.7 billion share repurchase capacity remaining under the Boards 2007 authorization expired at the end of fiscal 2009.  In addition, the Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $5 billion of the companys common stock.  Although this new repurchase authorization has no expiration, the company expects to use the full amount over the next three years.  The repurchases will be subject to market conditions, and will be made from time to time either in the open market or through private transactions in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The companys repurchase program may be suspended, discontinued or resumed at any time. 
 
During the quarter, Lowes opened 11 stores.  As of January 29, 2010, Lowes operated 1,710 stores in the United States and Canada representing 193.2 million square feet of retail selling space, a 3.5 percent increase over last year.
A conference call to discuss fourth quarter 2009 operating results is scheduled for today (Monday, February 22) at 9:00 am EST.  Please dial 888-817-4020 (international callers dial 706-679-4821) to participate.  A webcast of the call will take place simultaneously and can be accessed by visiting Lowes website at www.Lowes.com/investor and clicking on Lowes Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2009 Earnings Conference Call Webcast.  A replay of the call will be archived on Lowes.com until May 16, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act).  Statements of the companys expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute forward-looking statements under the Act.  Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, such as rising unemployment, interest rate and currency fluctuations, higher fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income, changes in consumer spending, the availability and increasing regulation of consumer credit and mortgage financing, changes in the rate of housing turnover, inflation or deflation of commodity prices and other factors which can negatively affect our customers, as well as our ability to:  (i) respond to adverse trends in the housing industry and the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and successfully develop new sites for store development particularly in major metropolitan markets; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address legislative and regulatory developments; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions that could adversely affect sales.  In addition, we could experience additional impairment losses if the actual results of our operating stores are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values. For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the Risk Factors and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the description of material changes, if any, therein included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this release and the company does not assume any obligation to update any such statements.
 
 
 
 
With fiscal year 2009 sales of $47.2 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 15 million customers a week at more than 1,700 home improvement stores in North America. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowes is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
###
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


