FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20100517081006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On May 17, 2010, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Companys financial results for its first quarter ended April 30, 2010.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) EXHIBITS
99.1 Press Release dated May 17, 2010 announcing the financial results of the Company for its first quarter ended April 30, 2010.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
May 17, 2010
For 7:00 am EDT Release
Contacts:                                   Shareholders/Analysts Inquiries:                                      Media Inquiries:
                    Robbin Moore-Randolph                                                         Chris Ahearn
                     704-758-3579                                                                               704-758-2304
 
 
LOWES REPORTS FIRST QUARTER SALES AND EARNINGS RESULTS
-- First Quarter Comparable Store Sales Increased 2.4 Percent--
   Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW), the worlds second largest home improvement retailer, today reported net earnings of $489 million for the quarter ended April 30, 2010, a 2.7 percent increase from the same period a year ago.  Diluted earnings per share increased 6.3 percent to $0.34 from $0.32 in the first quarter of 2009.
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Sales for the quarter increased 4.7 percent to $12.4 billion, up from $11.8 billion in the first quarter of 2009.  Comparable store sales for the first quarter increased 2.4 percent.
Consumers are showing signs of reengagement in home improvement, including discretionary projects and purchases of bigger ticket products, which had taken a back seat during the worst of the economic downturn, commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowe's chairman and CEO. This, combined with the government stimulus programs and favorable weather in March and April, drove solid quarterly sales and earnings that exceeded our guidance.
While we are optimistic we will experience solid demand through the balance of the year, we view 2010 as a year of transition for our industry. We remain confident that our commitment to providing excellent customer service, combined with great merchandising, will drive profitable sales and market share growth.
During the quarter, Lowes opened 11 stores.  As of April 30, 2010, Lowes operated 1,721 stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico representing 194.3 million square feet of retail selling space, a 2.9 percent increase over last year.
A conference call to discuss first quarter 2010 operating results is scheduled for today (Monday, May 17) at 9:00 am EDT.  The conference call will be available through a webcast and can be accessed by visiting Lowes website at www.Lowes.com/investor and clicking on Lowes First Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call Webcast.  A replay of the call will be archived on Lowes.com until August 15, 2010.
 
 
(comparisons to second quarter 2009)
Second Quarter 2010
(comparisons to fiscal year 2009)
Fiscal Year 2010
 
 
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). Statements of the company's expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, share repurchases and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute "forward-looking statements" under the Act. Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, beliefs and other similar expressions reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, such as continued high rates of unemployment, interest rate and currency fluctuations, higher fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income, changes in consumer spending, changes in the rate of housing turnover, the availability and increasing regulation of consumer credit and of mortgage financing, inflation or deflation of commodity prices and other factors which can negatively affect our customers, as well as our ability to: (i) respond to adverse trends in the housing industry, such as the psychological effects of falling home prices, and in the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as a general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and successfully develop new sites for store development particularly in major metropolitan markets; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address changes in existing or new laws or regulations that affect employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, tax or environmental issues; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions that could adversely affect sales. In addition, we could experience additional impairment losses if the actual results of our operating stores are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values. For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the "Risk Factors" and "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and the description of material changes, if any, therein included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are based upon data available as of the date of this release or other specified date and speak only as of such date.  All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf about any of the matters covered in this release are qualified by these cautionary statements and the Risk Factors and other information included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, change in circumstances, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
With fiscal year 2009 sales of $47.2 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 15 million customers a week at more than 1,700 home improvement stores in North America. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowes is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
###
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


