FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20100730114553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.04.                    Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrants Employee Benefit Plans.
Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) has elected to change the recordkeeper for the Lowes 401(k) Plan (the Plan).  As a result of this change, there will be a blackout period in which Plan participants and beneficiaries temporarily will be unable to (i) direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts or (2) obtain a distribution from the Plan.  The blackout period will begin at 4 p.m. Eastern Time on September 3, 2010 and end during the week of September 20, 2010 (the Blackout Period).
The Company received the notice of the Blackout Period required by Section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 on July 30, 2010.
On July 30, 2010, the Company sent a notice of the Blackout Period (the Blackout Period Notice) to the members of its Board of Directors and executive officers pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Section 104 of Regulation BTR of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, informing them that they would be prohibited during the Blackout Period from purchasing and selling shares of the Companys common stock (including derivative securities pertaining to such shares) that they acquire or have previously acquired in connection with their service or employment as a director or executive officer of the Company.
A copy of the Blackout Period Notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  During the Blackout Period and for a period of two years after the ending date of the Blackout Period, security holders or other interested persons may obtain, without charge, information about the actual beginning and ending dates of the Blackout Period and other information regarding the Blackout Period by contacting Gaither M. Keener, Jr., Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer, by telephone at (704) 758-2250, or in writing, at Lowes Companies, Inc., 1000 Lowes Boulevard, Mooresville, North Carolina 28117.
Item 9.01.Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
   
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this notice is to inform you of an impending blackout period under the Lowes 401(k) Plan (the Plan), during which you will be prohibited from engaging in transactions involving equity securities of Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) that you acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer of the Company.
 
Reason for the Blackout Period
The Plan will be changing record keepers from ADP to Wells Fargo Institutional Retirement & Trust.
 
Impact on Affected Plan Rights
As a result of the record keeper change, Plan participants and beneficiaries will be unable to direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts or to obtain a distribution from the Plan.  This period, during which Plan participants and beneficiaries will be unable to exercise these rights otherwise available under the Plan, is called a blackout period.
 
Length of the Blackout Period
The blackout period for the Plan will begin at 4 p.m. Eastern Time on September 3, 2010 and end during the week of September 20,2010.
 
 
Restrictions on Directors and Executive Officers During the Blackout Period
During the blackout period, directors and executive officers of the Company will be subject to the trading restrictions imposed under Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Regulation BTR.  Subject to limited exceptions, these restrictions generally prohibit the direct or indirect purchase, sale, or other acquisition or transfer of any of the Companys equity securities that you acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer of the Company.
 
Please note the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Questions or Additional Information
The rules described above apply in addition to the other restrictions on trading activity under the Companys Insider Trading Policy.  In order to avoid any inadvertent violations of the blackout period restrictions, you should continue to direct questions about, and requests for pre-clearance of, your transactions in the Companys securities to me.  In addition, during the blackout period, you may obtain, without charge, information about the blackout period, including whether the blackout period has begun or ended, by contacting me at (704) 758-2250, or in writing, at Lowes Companies, Inc., 1000 Lowes Boulevard, Mooresville, North Carolina 28117
 
 
 
 
 
 


