FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20111114081054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 14, 2011, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Companys financial results for its third quarter ended October 28, 2011.
 
The information contained in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
(d)           On November 11, 2011, the Board of Directors (the Board) of the Company elected Eric C. Wiseman, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of VF Corporation, to the Companys Board as a director with a term expiring at the Companys 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.  Concurrent with his election as a director, Mr. Wiseman was appointed to the Compensation Committee and the Governance Committee of the Board.  There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Wiseman and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director.  Additionally, there are no transactions involving the Company and Mr. Wiseman that the Company would be required to report pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
Mr. Wiseman will receive compensation in accordance with the Companys standard compensation arrangements for non-employee directors, which are described under the caption Compensation of Directors in the Companys definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 11, 2011, as adjusted by the Board from time to time.
 
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Wisemans election is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
November 14, 2011
For 6:00 am ET Release
                                                                                              
 
 
                                                                      
 
  
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW), the worlds second largest home improvement retailer, today reported net earnings of $225 million for the quarter ended October 28, 2011, a 44.3 percent decline from the same period a year ago.  Diluted earnings per share decreased 37.9 percent to $0.18 from $0.29 in the third quarter of 2010.  For the nine months ended October 28, 2011, net earnings decreased 12.1 percent from the same period a year ago to $1.52 billion while diluted earnings per share decreased 3.3 percent to $1.17.
 
Included in the above reported results are charges related to store closings and discontinued projects which, in the aggregate, reduced pre-tax earnings for the quarter by $336 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.17.
 
Sales for the quarter increased 2.3 percent to $11.9 billion, up from $11.6 billion in the third quarter of 2010.  For the nine months ended October 28, 2011, sales were $38.6 billion, an increase of 0.6 percent from the same period a year ago.  Comparable store sales for the third quarter increased 0.7 percent and for the first nine months of 2011 decreased 1.0 percent.
 
"Our performance is not at the level we expect relative to the market," commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowes chairman, president and CEO.  "We are making the changes necessary to right size the organization, improve speed to market and enhance the shopping experience.  We are keenly focused on improving our core business while also developing new capabilities and services for the future.  I am confident we are moving forward on a clear path that is not dependent on an unlikely near-term economic recovery.  
 
I would like to thank our hard-working employees for their ongoing dedication and customer focus during a time of significant change, Niblock added.
 
During the quarter, Lowes opened eight stores.  As of October 28, 2011, Lowes operated 1,744 stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico representing 196.5 million square feet of retail selling space, a 0.5 percent increase over last year.
 
A conference call to discuss third quarter 2011 operating results is scheduled for today (Monday, November 14) at 9:00 am ET.  The conference call will be available through a webcast and can be accessed by visiting Lowes website at www.Lowes.com/investor and clicking on Lowes Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call Webcast.  A replay of the call will be archived on Lowes.com until February 26, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2011  a 14-week Quarter
(comparisons to fourth quarter 2010  a 13-week quarter)
Fiscal Year 2011  a 53-week Year
(comparisons to fiscal year 2010  a 52-week year)
 
 
 
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). Statements of the company's expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, share repurchases and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute "forward-looking statements" under the Act.   Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, such as continued high rates of unemployment, interest rate and currency fluctuations, higher fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income, changes in consumer spending, changes in the rate of housing turnover, the availability and increasing regulation of consumer credit and of mortgage financing, inflation or deflation of commodity prices and other factors which can negatively affect our customers, as well as our ability to: (i) respond to adverse trends in the housing industry, such as the psychological effects of falling home prices, and in the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as a general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and successfully develop new sites for store development particularly in major metropolitan markets; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address changes in existing or new laws or regulations that affect consumer credit, employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, tax or environmental issues; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions that could adversely affect sales. In addition, we could experience additional impairment losses if the actual results of our operating stores are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values. For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the "Risk Factors" and "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and the description of material changes therein or updated version thereof, if any, included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are based upon data available as of the date of this release or other specified date and speak only as of such date.  All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf about any of the matters covered in this release are qualified by these cautionary statements and in the Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the SEC and the description of material changes, if any, therein included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, change in circumstances, future events, or otherwise.
 
With fiscal year 2010 sales of $48.8 billion, Lowe's Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 15 million customers a week at more than 1,725 home improvement stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowe's is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
                                                                      
 
  
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW) announced today the appointment of Eric C. Wiseman, 56, to its board of directors. He will serve on the boards compensation and governance committees. With todays announcement, Lowes board of directors is comprised of 11 members, 10 of whom are independent.
Wiseman is chairman, president and CEO of VF Corporation. Based in Greensboro, N.C., VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) is the worlds largest apparel company, whose top brands include The North Face, Timberland, Vans, Wrangler and Lee. Before being named CEO in January 2008, Wiseman served as president and chief operating officer from 2006 to 2007, responsible for VFs global business and day-to-day operations.
Wiseman holds a bachelors degree in business and an MBA from Wake Forest University. He serves on the board of directors of CIGNA Corporation and on the board of visitors of Wake Forest Schools of Business.
 
Eric is an innovative thinker with significant management experience leading top consumer brands, said Robert A. Niblock, Lowes chairman, president and CEO. His deep consumer insight and executive experience make him a great addition to Lowes board.
 
With fiscal year 2010 sales of $48.8 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 15 million customers a week at more than 1,725 home improvement stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowes is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit .
Lowes.com
 
###
 
 
 


