FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20110815080055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On August 15, 2011, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Companys financial results for its second quarter ended July 29, 2011.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) EXHIBITS
 
99.1 Press Release dated August 15, 2011 announcing the financial results of the Company for its second quarter ended July 29, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
August 15, 2011
For 6:00 am ET Release
                                                                                              
 
 
                                                                      
   Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW), the worlds second largest home improvement retailer, today reported net earnings of $830 million for the quarter ended July 29, 2011, essentially flat from the same period a year ago.  Diluted earnings per share increased 10.3 percent to $0.64 from $0.58 in the second quarter of 2010.  For the six months ended July 29, 2011, net earnings decreased 2.2 percent from the same period a year ago to $1.29 billion while diluted earnings per share increased 6.5 percent to $0.98.
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Included in the above reported results, the company recognized a charge related to an evaluation of the carrying value of long-lived assets, including seven stores that closed on August 14, which reduced pre-tax earnings for the quarter by $83 million and diluted earnings per share by four cents ($0.04).
Sales for the quarter increased 1.3 percent to $14.5 billion, up from $14.4 billion in the second quarter of 2010.  For the six months ended July 29, 2011, sales were $26.7 billion, essentially flat from the same period a year ago.  Comparable store sales for the second quarter decreased 0.3 percent and for the first half of 2011 decreased 1.7 percent.
Despite some recovery in our seasonal business, our performance for the quarter fell short of our expectations, commented Robert A. Niblock, Lowes chairman, president and CEO.  We are working diligently to improve sales and profitability in the near-term in a way that we believe will generate sustained customer preference and shareholder value.  We are also building momentum in 2011 behind our longer-term commitment to deliver even better customer experiences.
 
"I would like to thank our hard working employees for their ongoing dedication and customer focus. I am also pleased to announce that our Sanford, N.C. store, which was destroyed by a tornado on April 16, will reopen to continue serving the Sanford community on September 8," Niblock added.
During the quarter, Lowes opened two stores.  As of July 29, 2011, Lowes operated 1,753 stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico representing 197.6 million square feet of retail selling space, a 1.5 percent increase over last year.
A conference call to discuss second quarter 2011 operating results is scheduled for today (Monday, August 15) at 9:00 am ET.  The conference call will be available through a webcast and can
be accessed by visiting Lowes website at
www.Lowes.com
/investor and clicking on Lowes Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call Webcast.  A replay of the call will be archived on
Lo
w
es.com
until November 13, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
(comparisons to third quarter 2010)
Third Quarter 2011
(comparisons to fiscal year 2010  a 52-week year)
Fiscal Year 2011  a 53-week Year
 
 
 
 
 
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). Statements of the company's expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, capital expenditures, store openings, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, share repurchases and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute "forward-looking statements" under the Act.   Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, such as continued high rates of unemployment, interest rate and currency fluctuations, higher fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income, changes in consumer spending, changes in the rate of housing turnover, the availability and increasing regulation of consumer credit and of mortgage financing, inflation or deflation of commodity prices and other factors which can negatively affect our customers, as well as our ability to: (i) respond to adverse trends in the housing industry, such as the psychological effects of falling home prices, and in the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as a general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) locate, secure, and successfully develop new sites for store development particularly in major metropolitan markets; (v) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vi) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (vii) address changes in existing or new laws or regulations that affect consumer credit, employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, tax or environmental issues; and (viii) respond to unanticipated weather conditions that could adversely affect sales. In addition, we could experience additional impairment losses if the actual results of our operating stores are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values. For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the "Risk Factors" and "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and the description of material changes, if any, therein included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are based upon data available as of the date of this release or other specified date and speak only as of such date.  All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf about any of the matters covered in this release are qualified by these cautionary statements and in the Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the SEC and the description of material changes, if any, therein included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, change in circumstances, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
With fiscal year 2010 sales of $48.8 billion, Lowe's Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 50 company that serves approximately 15 million customers a week at more than 1,725 home improvement stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowe's is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


