FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20121119083433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 19, 2012, Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the Companys financial results for its third quarter ended November 2, 2012.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Furthermore, the information contained in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
November 19, 2012
For 6:00 am ET Release
                                                                                              
 
 
                                                                      
 
 
 
I would also like to express our sympathy for all those impacted by the devastating effects of superstorm Sandy, Niblock added.  Our employees are working diligently to help communities recover from the damage.  Additionally, our stores as well as lowes.com are official donation sites for the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund, and Lowes is contributing $1 million to the relief efforts through various partner organizations.
Delivering on the commitment to return excess cash to shareholders, the company repurchased $850 million or 29.6 million shares of stock and paid $184 million in dividends in the third quarter.  For the nine month period, the company repurchased $3.6 billion or 124.4 million shares of common stock and paid $524 million in dividends.
As of November 2, 2012, Lowes operated 1,750 stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico representing 197.0 million square feet of retail selling space.
A conference call to discuss third quarter 2012 operating results is scheduled for today (Monday, November, 19) at 9:00 am ET.  The conference call will be available through a webcast and can be accessed by visiting Lowes website at www.Lowes.com/investor and clicking on Lowes Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call Webcast.  A replay of the call will be archived on Lowes.com/investor until February 24, 2013.
 
(comparisons to fiscal year 2011  a 53-week year; based on U.S. GAAP unless otherwise noted)
Fiscal Year 2012  a 52-week Year
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). Statements of the company's expectations for sales growth, comparable store sales, earnings and performance, shareholder value, capital expenditures, cash flows, store openings, the housing market, the home improvement industry, demand for services, share repurchases, the Companys strategic initiatives and any statement of an assumption underlying any of the foregoing, constitute "forward-looking statements" under the Act.   Although we believe that the expectations, opinions, projections, and comments reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. A wide variety of potential risks, uncertainties, and other factors could materially affect our ability to achieve the results either expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, such as continued high rates of unemployment, interest rate and currency fluctuations, higher fuel and other energy costs, slower growth in personal income, changes in consumer
 
 
 
spending, changes in the rate of housing turnover, the availability and increasing regulation of consumer credit and of mortgage financing, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, pending combination of expiring tax cuts and mandatory reductions in federal spending at the end of 2012, and other factors which can negatively affect our customers, as well as our ability to: (i) respond to adverse trends in the housing industry, such as the psychological effects of lower home prices, and in the level of repairs, remodeling, and additions to existing homes, as well as a general reduction in commercial building activity; (ii) secure, develop, and otherwise implement new technologies and processes designed to enhance our efficiency and competitiveness; (iii) attract, train, and retain highly-qualified associates; (iv) manage our business effectively as we adapt our traditional operating model to meet the changing expectations of our customers; (v) to maintain, improve, upgrade and protect our critical information systems; (vi) respond to fluctuations in the prices and availability of services, supplies, and products; (vii) respond to the growth and impact of competition; (viii) address changes in existing or new laws or regulations that affect consumer credit, employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, tax or environmental issues; and (ix) respond to unanticipated weather conditions that could adversely affect sales. In addition, we could experience additional impairment losses if the actual results of our operating stores are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values. For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the "Risk Factors" and "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and the description of material changes therein or updated version thereof, if any, included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are based upon data available as of the date of this release or other specified date and speak only as of such date.  All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf about any of the matters covered in this release are qualified by these cautionary statements and the Risk Factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the SEC and the description of material changes, if any, therein included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, change in circumstances, future events, or otherwise.
 
For more information, visit .
With fiscal year 2011 sales of $50.2 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 100 company that serves approximately 15 million customers a week at more than 1,745 home improvement stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowes is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world.
Lowes.com
 
###
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


