FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20120731170613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 31, 2012, Lowes Companies Inc. (the Company) announced that it has made a non-binding proposal to the board of directors of Canadian home improvement and hardware retailer RONA Inc. (RONA) to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of RONA for C$14.50 in cash per share.  The proposal, which is subject to the satisfactory completion of confirmatory due diligence, was rejected by the board of directors of RONA.  In light of the RONA boards decision, the Company has decided to make its proposal public in its entirety to allow all RONA shareholders and other stakeholders to evaluate the numerous economic and commercial benefits outlined in the proposal and to allow for shareholders to communicate their views directly to RONAs board.
A copy of the press release confirming the Companys non-binding proposal to RONAs board is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 2012Lowes Companies Inc. (NYSE: LOW) (Lowes or the Company) confirmed today that it has made a non-binding proposal to the Board of Directors of Canadian home improvement and hardware retailer RONA Inc. (TSX: RON) (RONA) to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of RONA for C$14.50 in cash per share.  A number of institutional shareholders representing in the aggregate approximately 15% of RONAs outstanding shares have indicated that they support Lowes proposal.  The proposal, which is subject to the satisfactory completion of confirmatory due diligence, represented an attractive premium of 36.7% to the C$10.61 closing share price on July 6, 2012 and a premium of 42.4% to the volume-weighted average share price of C$10.18 for the 20 trading days ended July 6, 2012, the last trading day prior to the submission of the Lowes proposal. However, the proposal was rejected by the Board of Directors of RONA.
MOORESVILLE, N.C,
,
31
 
The non-binding proposal was delivered to RONA Board Chairman Mr. Robert Par, on July 8, 2012.  RONAs Board asked Lowes for additional time to consider the proposal but, subsequently, rejected it. In light of this decision, Lowes is making its proposal public in its entirety to allow for all RONA shareholders and other stakeholders to evaluate the numerous economic and commercial benefits outlined in the proposal and to allow for shareholders to communicate their views directly to RONAs board.  Lowes proposal letter is appended in its entirety to this news release.
th
 
At RONAs request, the chief executive officers of Lowes and RONA first met one year ago on July 27, 2011 to discuss a potential relationship between the two companies.  RONAs CEO subsequently visited Lowes facilities in North Carolina to continue the initial discussions.  Including these initial meetings, the two companies have discussed or reviewed proposals for a working arrangement between them, including a previous proposal by Lowes to acquire RONA, dated December 15, 2011.  That proposal was rejected by the RONA board.
 
Robert A. Niblock, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lowes, said, We are disappointed that RONAs Board of Directors has rejected our friendly non-binding proposal, which is clearly attractive for RONA shareholders. We believe a combination of Lowes and RONA makes enormous business sense. In addition, our proposal includes a number of important commitments to RONA that will benefit key stakeholders, including RONAs dealer-owners, employees, suppliers, customers and local communities and would keep RONAs headquarters in Boucherville, Quebec.
 
 
 
 
We reiterate our proposal to the RONA Board. We hope that in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, RONAs Board will reconsider and recognize that our proposal represents a very attractive opportunity for all RONA shareholders and the companys major stakeholders. Lowes operates with the utmost respect and support for the communities where we do business and our proposal demonstrates Lowes respect for the economic and cultural heritage of this important Quebec-based business. Bottom line, we believe that our proposal is good for RONA and the communities it serves in Quebec as well as across Canada, and it is also good for consumers. We encourage the Board of RONA to reconsider its position, concluded Mr. Niblock.
 
Compelling Strategic Rationale and Commitments to RONA Stakeholders
 
In addition to the attractive premium offered to RONAs shareholders, the proposal is underpinned by a compelling strategic rationale and commitments that benefit all stakeholders of both RONA and Lowes, including customers.
 
 Combining RONAs Canadian operations with Lowes strong global presence would provide RONAs operations with substantial benefits by creating a strengthened Canadian home improvement retailer with world-class capabilities across channels and geographies. While the combined Canadian business would undoubtedly benefit from Lowes global reach and deep supplier relationships, Lowes believes that preserving RONAs local market expertise and relationships is critical.
Creation of a Strengthened Canadian Home Improvement Retailer with World-Class Capabilities Headquartered in Quebec
 
Under Lowes proposal, RONA will remain a Quebec-based company and the headquarters for the combined Canadian business will remain in Boucherville, Quebec.
 
 RONA and Lowes share strong organizational cultures and dedicated managers and employees that are critical to the success of both their businesses.  By combining the talents of their people and sharing organizational best practices, the combined companies create a stronger platform for future growth and a great work environment.  In order to capitalize on the strong local market expertise within RONA, Lowes intends for much of RONAs management team to continue in leadership roles, and intends to preserve the important role that dealer-owners play in the management of RONA.  Lowes also expects that the number of people employed by RONA today, both within Quebec and across the rest of Canada, would be the same or greater following the transaction and believes that the combined entity would offer significantly enhanced growth opportunities benefiting all of our employees.
Share Best Practices and Leverage Strengths of Existing Employees
 
While Lowes is best known for its traditional large store formats, the Company would be committed to preserving and developing RONAs multi-channel retail strategy that includes retail, commercial and distribution channels offered through large stores, smaller urban/proximity format stores and a well-developed online presence offered under a number of different brands.  RONA is a renowned Canadian brand and it is strategically and culturally desirable that RONA stores and distribution operations continue to operate under the RONA brand.  
Strengthened Multi-Channel Retail Strategy 
 
 
 
 
 Combining Lowes and RONAs operations would create a strengthened, global home improvement retailer with more than C$57 billion in aggregate annual sales - an organization that would be ranked among the top 50 Fortune 500 companies.  Lowes deep supplier relationships and an enhanced product offering would create significant value for RONAs dealer-owners and better position the company to serve its customers.
Enhanced Dealer-Owner Value Proposition
 
 Lowes understands and shares RONAs commitment to procuring goods in Canada wherever possible. During 2011, Lowes Canada procured approximately 70% of its materials through Canadian suppliers.  Lowes will continue its local and ethical procurement strategy in the future and would like to expand the relationships that both Lowes and RONA have developed with Canadian manufacturers and suppliers. With its leading global home improvement platform, Lowes believes that it is also uniquely well-suited to increase the distribution of Canadian manufactured products into new international markets.
Commitment to Local and Ethical Sourcing of Materials
 
Lowes is aware of and endorses the significant level of support that RONA provides to communities across Canada through charitable initiatives such as the RONA Foundation. Lowes shares the same philosophy and is committed to supporting charitable initiatives supported by RONA. Lowes Charitable and Educational Foundation has a proud history of improving the communities it serves. Lowes commitment is about more than writing cheques  its about its heritage of making an impact in its communities.
Continued Commitment to Canadian Communities 
 
Since Lowes was founded in 1946, the company has grown from a small-town hardware store to a FORTUNE100 company, serving millions of customers every week.  The Company takes great pride in a culture built on more than 65 years of exceptional customer service.  It is a culture shaped by more than 248,000 employees who are the foundation that unites it and drives its success.  Employees and leadership share a vision and values that connect them with generations of Lowes employees:  a commitment to values  customer-focus, ownership in the company, respect for each other, teamwork, a passion for execution and integrity.
 
Lowes currently operates more than 1,745 stores in North America, including 31 stores in Canada and three in Mexico, plus an additional 16 stores as part of a joint venture in Australia.  As the company continues to enter new markets, it is working harder than ever to preserve and enhance its customer-focused culture and to carry on a rich tradition of caring for the communities in which it operates and where its employees live and work.
 
At this stage, there can be no assurance that any agreement will be reached between the two companies or that any transaction will result and Lowes non-binding proposal to the RONA Board is subject to receiving access from RONA to perform satisfactory confirmatory due diligence.  Any transaction would also be subject to the satisfaction of conditions, including the receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals.
 
Lowes Companies Proposal Letter to the RONA Board [LINK provided by CNW/PR Newswire].
 
Proposal Fact Sheet [LINK provided by CNW/PR Newswire].
 
 
 
 
Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements including those regarding Lowes non-binding proposal to RONAs board of directors and the expected impact of the proposed acquisition on Lowes strategic and operational plans and financial results.  Statements including words such as anticipate, believe, estimate or expect and statements in the future tense are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or actual future results to differ materially from the expectations set forth in these forward-looking statements. Although the company believes that the expectations, opinions, projections, assumptions and comments reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct.  Some of the factors which could cause results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements include the following: the possibility that Lowes non-binding proposal to the RONA Board of Directors to acquire RONA will be rejected by RONAs board of directors or, if applicable, shareholders; the possibility that even if Lowes proposal is accepted, the proposed transaction will not close or that the closing may be delayed; the failure to obtain, any necessary actions to obtain and the timing to obtain any required regulatory approvals for any transaction; the effect of the announcement of the non-binding proposal on Lowes and RONAs strategic relationships, operating results and businesses generally; significant transaction costs or unknown liabilities; failure to realize the expected benefits of the combination; and general economic conditions.  For more information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the Risk Factors and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and the description of material changes therein or updated version thereof, if any, included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are based upon data available as of the date of this release or other specified date and speak only as of such date. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf about any of the matters covered in this release are qualified by these cautionary statements and in the "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to the SEC and the description of material changes, if any, therein included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, change in circumstances, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
FURTHER INFORMATION
 
This announcement is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell RONA common shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
July 8, 2012
Mr. Robert Par
Chairman of the Board
RONA Inc.
220 Chemin du Tremblay
Boucherville, Qubec J4B 8H7
Dear Robert,
Further to our meeting today, we are interested in working with you to pursue a combination of Lowes and RONA, which we believe would benefit all shareholders and stakeholders. As you know from the meetings we had with Mr. Robert Dutton and our previous proposal letter dated December 15, 2011, we admire RONA's unique business model, strong management team and deep Canadian heritage. We continue to believe that a combination of RONA and Lowes offers a unique and compelling opportunity to create value for all stakeholders as well as providing meaningful benefits for the Canadian customer.
Based on our strong belief in the value of combining our businesses in Canada, we are prepared, subject to satisfactory completion of confirmatory due diligence, to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of RONA for C$14.50 in cash per share, which we believe your shareholders will find attractive. This proposal represents a premium of 36.7% to the C$10.61 closing share price on July 6, 2012 and a premium of 42.4%to the volume weighted average share price of C$10.18 for the 20 trading days ended July 6, 2012. We are prepared to move forward quickly to consummate a transaction.
 
At this time, we are proposing a Board-supported, court approved plan of arrangement, subject to customary terms and conditions for a transaction of this nature.  As further evidence of our commitment to the transaction, Lowes has held confidential discussions with a number of large institutional shareholders of RONA regarding our proposal and, based on these discussions, shareholders representing in aggregate approximately 15% of RONAs outstanding shares have indicated that they are supportive of our proposal. Additionally, we have recently accumulated an ownership position in RONA through the public purchase of shares.
In addition to the attractive premium offered to RONAs shareholders, we believe the proposed transaction is underpinned by a compelling strategic rationale and we are prepared to make commitments benefiting all stakeholders and customers of both RONA and Lowes:
 
 
 
1000 Lowe's Blvd., Mooresville, NC 28117
 
 
 
 
Please know that the Lowe's Board of Directors fully supports and is committed to this proposal.  We have engaged and have been working closely with CIBC World Markets and Bank of America Merrill Lynch as our financial advisors, and Stikeman Elliott and Hunton & Williams, as our legal advisors.  With the assistance of these advisors, we have completed an extensive analysis of RONA and have carefully considered the proposed transaction solely on the basis of publicly available information. At this time, we would like to work constructively with RONA's management team to conduct confirmatory due diligence and, subject to RONAs granting Lowes exclusivity, we are prepared to devote all necessary resources to complete due diligence in an expeditious manner with minimal disruption to RONAs business.  We believe we could complete our due diligence within two to four weeks, subject to engaged assistance from RONAs management team.  In addition to completing confirmatory financial and legal due diligence, the key focus areas for our due diligence would be to review the current condition of RONAs IT systems and all lease arrangements relating to the store and distribution store network. We would also propose to work towards settling the transaction documents during the due diligence/exclusivity period. This letter represents a non-binding indication of interest on our part and is not intended to create any legally binding obligations.
 
We are confident that all necessary regulatory approvals will be obtainable and, with our significant cash on hand, excess credit facility capacity and our strong credit rating, the transaction would not be subject to any financing conditions.
In conclusion, we trust that the Board of Directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, recognizes that this proposal represents a very attractive opportunity for RONAs shareholders and other stakeholders and we sincerely hope that we can work together to ensure that your shareholders, dealer-owners, employees and customers have the opportunity to realize its benefits.  I ask that you please contact me at your earliest convenience to discuss the details of our proposal and to develop a timetable to advance the proposed transaction.  We are eager to work with RONAs Board of Directors and senior leadership team to consummate a transaction and we request your response by July 15, 2012.
Sincerely,
/s/ Robert A. Niblock
Robert A. Niblock
Chairman, President
and Chief Executive Officer
President and Chief Executive Officer, RONA Inc.
 
 
1000 Lowe's Blvd., Mooresville, NC 28117
 
 
 
ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF THE TRANSACTION FOR RONA INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF THE TRANSACTION FOR LOWES COMPANIES INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF THE TRANSACTION FOR LOWES COMPANIES INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


