FILE:LOW/LOW-8K-20120509165646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lowes Companies, Inc. (the Company) has announced executive assignments to more sharply focus the Company on strategies to create and deliver seamless customer experiences.  A copy of a press release describing these executive assignments is attached as Exhibit 99.1, which description is incorporated by reference herein.  The effective date of these assignments is May 3, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Lowes Companies, Inc. (NYSE: LOW)
MOORESVILLE, N.C.--
 has announced executive assignments to more sharply focus the company on strategies to create and deliver seamless customer experiences.
 
The Customer Experience organization, led by Gregory M. Bridgeford, chief customer officer, is responsible for creating customer experiences that will best serve customers and differentiate Lowes from its competitors. Reporting to Bridgeford are:
 
 
The Operations organization, led by Rick D. Damron, chief operating officer, is responsible for delivering the customer experience.Reporting to Damron are:
 
 
 
Robert A. Niblock, chairman, president and CEO, announced the following additional changes:
 
 
With one of the deepest benches in retail, Lowes has a long history of developing great leaders, said Niblock. These individuals leadership, hard work and expertise in their respective areas have been instrumental in the success of our company. Now its time to focus on creating and delivering seamless customer experiences.
 
With fiscal year 2011 sales of $50.2 billion, Lowes Companies, Inc. is a FORTUNE 100 company that serves approximately 15 million customers a week at more than 1,745 home improvement stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Founded in 1946 and based in Mooresville, N.C., Lowes is the second-largest home improvement retailer in the world. For more information, visit Lowes.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 


