Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this document. Available Information We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorola.com/investor, our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements, Exchange Act reports and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents: Motorola, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines Motorola, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines Table of Contents 22 Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola, Inc. Board of Directors Motorola Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer) Audit and Legal Committee Charter Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter Governance and Nominating Committee Charter All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E mail: investors@motorola.com, phone: 1 800 262 8509. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Item 2: Properties Motorolas principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. Motorola also operates manufacturing facilities and sales offices in the U.S. and many other countries. (See Item 1: Business for information regarding the location of the principal manufacturing facilities for each of Motorolas business segments.) Motorola owns 69 facilities (manufacturing, sales, service and office), 40 of which are located in North America and 29 of which are located in other countries. Motorola leases 333 facilities, 135 of which are located in North America and 198 of which are located in other countries. As part of Motorolas overall strategy to reduce operating costs and improve the financial performance of the corporation, a number of businesses and facilities have either been sold or are currently for sale. During 2003, facilities in Sendai, Japan; Penang, Malaysia; Irvine, California; Lawrenceville, Georgia and Chihuahua, Mexico were sold. In January of 2004, facilities in Tianjin, China and South Queensferry, Scotland were sold. Facilities (or portions thereof) in Mesa, Arizona; Tempe, Arizona; Harvard, Illinois; Northbrook, Illinois; Austin, Texas; Swindon, U.K., and Sendai, Japan are currently up for sale. Motorola generally considers the productive capacity of the plants operated by each of its business segments adequate and sufficient for the requirements of each business group. The extent of utilization of such manufacturing facilities varies from plant to plant and from time to time during the year. A substantial portion of Motorolas products are manufactured in Asia, primarily China, either in our own facilities or the facilities of others who manufacture and assemble products for Motorola. If manufacturing in the region was disrupted, Motorolas overall productive capacity could be significantly reduced. Item 3: Legal Proceedings Personal Injury Cases Cases relating to Wireless Telephone Usage Motorola has been a defendant in several cases arising out of its manufacture and sale of wireless telephones. Jerald P. Busse, et al. v. Motorola, Inc. et al., filed October 26, 1995 in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, Chancery Division, is a class action alleging that defendants have failed to adequately warn consumers of the alleged dangers of cellular telephones and challenging ongoing safety studies as invasions of privacy. On October 9, 2002, the Circuit Court entered summary judgment in defendants favor. Plaintiffs have appealed the judgment. Kane, et al., v. Motorola, Inc., et al., filed December 13, 1993 in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, alleges that plaintiffs brain cancer was caused or aggravated by a prototype communication device. On May 11, 2000, the Court entered summary judgment in Motorolas favor holding that there was no evidence to support plaintiffs theory of causation. On September 26, 2002, the Illinois Appellate Court affirmed the entry of summary judgment for Motorola and denied plaintiffs appeal. Plaintiffs have sought leave to appeal the decision to the Illinois Supreme Court. On June 6, 2003, the Illinois Supreme court denied the petition for leave to appeal. All avenues of appeal have now been exhausted. Medica et al., v. Motorola, Inc., et al., filed September 7, 1999 in the District Court of Clark County, Nevada, alleges that use of a cellular phone caused a malignant brain tumor. Newman et al., v. Motorola, Inc., et al., filed August 1, 2000, in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland and subsequently removed to the U.S. District Court, alleges that use of a cellular phone caused a malignant brain tumor. On September 30, 2002, the district court in Newman ruled that plaintiffs expert testimony did not meet the standards Table of Contents 23 of admissibility in the federal courts. With no admissible expert evidence to establish causation, the court subsequently entered summary judgment for defendants. Plaintiffs appealed the judgment. On October 22, 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed the lower courts decision. During 2001, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ruled that five cases, Naquin, et al., v. Nokia Mobile Phones, et al., Pinney and Colonell v. Nokia, Inc., et al., Gillian et al., v. Nokia, Inc., et al., Farina v. Nokia, Inc., et al., and Gimpelson v. Nokia Inc, et. al., which allege that the failure to incorporate a remote headset into cellular phones rendered the phones defective and that cellular phones cause undisclosed injury to cells and other health risks, be transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings in the matter called In re Wireless Telephone Radio Frequency Emissions Products Liability Litigation (the MDL Proceeding). On March 5, 2003, the MDL Court dismissed with prejudice the five cases consolidated during 2001. In doing so, the Court stated that the subject matter is preempted and not appropriate for litigation, but is entrusted by Congress to federal agencies. On April 2, 2003, plaintiffs appealed the dismissal as well as the courts jurisdictional ruling. During 2002, the MDL panel transferred and consolidated seven additional cases, Horn v. Motorola, Inc., et. al., Murray v. Motorola, Inc., et al., Agro et. al., v. Motorola, Inc., et al., Cochran et. al., v. Audiovox Corporation, et al., Schofield et. al., v. Matsushita Electric Corporation of America, et al., each of which alleges that use of a cellular phone caused a malignant brain tumor, Dahlgren v. Motorola, Inc., et. al., which alleges that defendants manufactured and sold cell phones that increase the risk of adverse cellular reaction and or cellular dysfunction and failed to disclose biological effects, and Brower v. Motorola, Inc., et al., which contains allegations similar to Horn and Dahlgren, with the MDL Proceeding. On November 18, 2003, the MDL Court entered an order dismissing Horn without prejudice. Cases relating to Two Way Radio Usage On January 23, 2004, Motorola was added as a co defendant with New York City in Virgilio et al. v. Motorola et al., filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The suit was originally filed in December 2003 (against New York City alone) on behalf of twelve New York City firefighters who died in the attack on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. The amended complaint alleges that the twelve firefighters died because the Motorola two way radios they were using were defective and did not receive evacuation orders and because the City of New York and Motorola committed wrongful acts in connection with a bid process that was designed to provide new radios to the New York City Fire Department. Plaintiffs have asserted claims for wrongful death due to a defect in product design, wrongful death for failure to warn, wrongful death due to fraudulent misrepresentations and deceitful conduct, wrongful death due to negligent misrepresentations, and concerted action against both Motorola and the City of New York. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages against Motorola in excess of $5 billion. On March 10, 2004, the court, to which all September 11 litigation has been assigned, granted Motorolas and the other defendants motion to dismiss the complaint on the grounds that all of the Virgilio plaintiffs have filed claims with the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund, that Congress intended the Fund to be their remedy, and they have therefore waived their right to bring the lawsuit. Iridium Related Cases Class Action Securities Lawsuits Motorola has been named as one of several defendants in putative class action securities lawsuits pending in the District of Columbia arising out of alleged misrepresentations or omissions regarding the Iridium satellite communications business. The plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages. On March 15, 2001, the federal court judge consolidated the various securities cases under Freeland v. Iridium World Communications, Inc., et, al., originally filed on April 22, 1999. Motorola moved to dismiss the plaintiffs complaint on July 15, 2002, and that motion has not yet been decided. Bankrupcy Court Lawsuit Motorola has been sued by the Official Committee of the Unsecured Creditors of Iridium in the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York on July 19, 2001. In re Iridium Operating LLC, et, al. v. Motorola Table of Contents 24 asserts claims for breach of contract, warranty, fiduciary duty, and fraudulent transfer and preferences, and seeks in excess of $4 billion in damages. Iridium India Lawsuits Motorola and certain of its current and former officers and directors were named as defendants in a private criminal complaint filed by Iridium India Telecom Ltd. (Iridium India) in October 2001 in the Court of the Extra Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Khadki, Pune, India. Iridium India is the purchaser of certain rights from Iridium LLC (Iridium) to set up, develop and operate a gateway for the Iridium system in South Asia. The Iridium India Telecom Ltd. v. Motorola, Inc. et al. complaint alleges that the defendants conspired to, and did, commit the criminal offense of cheating by fraudulently inducing Iridium India to purchase gateway equipment from Motorola, acquire Iridium stock, and invest in developing a market for Iridium services in India. Under the Indian penal code, cheating is punishable by imprisonment for up to 7 years and a fine of any amount. The court may also require the defendants to compensate the victim for its losses suffered as a result of the offense, which the complaint estimates at about $100 million. In August 2003, the Bombay High Court granted Motorolas petition to dismiss the criminal action as to Motorola and the individual defendants. Iridium India has petitioned the Indian Supreme Court to exercise its discretion to review that dismissal, and that petition is pending. In September 2002, Iridium India also filed a civil suit in the Bombay High Court against Motorola and Iridium. The suit alleges fraud, intentional misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation by Motorola and Iridium in inducing Iridium India to purchase gateway equipment from Motorola, acquire Iridium stock, and invest in developing a market for Iridium services in India. Iridium India claims in excess of $200 million in damages and interest. In conjunction with the filing of the civil suit, Iridium India moved for interim relief and obtained, without notice to Motorola, an order prohibiting Motorola from removing assets from India. In August 2003, Motorola obtained dismissal of Iridium Indias motions for interim relief in the civil suit, but Iridium India appealed that dismissal to the appellate division of the Bombay High Court. An order prohibiting removal of certain assets from India remains in effect pending disposition of that appeal. Shareholder Derivative Case M&C Partners III v. Galvin, et al., filed January 10, 2002, in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, is a shareholder derivative suit filed derivatively on behalf of Motorola against fifteen current and former members of the Motorola Board of Directors and Motorola as a nominal defendant. The lawsuit alleges that the Motorola directors breached their fiduciary duty to the Company and or committed gross mismanagement of Motorolas business and assets by allowing Motorola to engage in improper practices with respect to Iridium. The suit seeks an unspecified amount of damages. In October 2003, the court dismissed plaintiffs amended complaint in its entirety without prejudice. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the Iridium related cases still pending could have a material adverse effect on Motorolas consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Telsim Related Cases Motorola is owed approximately $2 billion under loans to Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A.S. (Telsim), a wireless telephone operator in Turkey. Telsim defaulted on the payment of these loans in April 2001. The Company fully reserved the carrying value of the Telsim loans in the second quarter of 2002. The Company is involved in the following legal proceedings related to Telsim. The Uzan family controls Telsim. U.S. Case On January 28, 2002, Motorola Credit Corporation (MCC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Motorola, initiated a civil action with Nokia Corporation (Nokia), Motorola Credit Corporation and Nokia Corporation v. Kemal Uzan, et al., against several members of the Uzan family, as well as one of their employees and controlled companies, alleging that the defendants engaged in a pattern of racketeering activity and violated various state and federal laws. The suit alleged 13 separate counts of wrongdoing, including (i) three counts alleging violations of Table of Contents 25 Illinois fraud and conspiracy laws; (ii) three federal statutory counts alleging computer hacking; (iii) one count alleging violations of the Illinois Trade Secrets Act; (iv) one count seeking imposition of an equitable lien and constructive trust; (v) one count seeking declaratory relief; and (vi) four counts of criminal activity in violation of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, commonly known as RICO. The suit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the U.S. District Court). The U.S. District Court issued its final ruling on July 31, 2003 as described below. Upon filing the action, MCC and Nokia were able to attach various Uzan owned real estate in New York. Subsequently, this attachment order was expanded to include a number of bank accounts, including those owned indirectly by the Uzans. On May 9, 2002, the U.S. District Court entered a preliminary injunction confirming the prejudgment relief previously granted. These attachments remain in place. The U.S. District Court tried the case without a jury to conclusion on February 19, 2003. Subsequent to the trial of the case, and before a final ruling had been issued, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the Appellate Court) issued an opinion on March 7, 2003 regarding a series of appeals filed by the Uzans from the U.S. District Courts earlier rulings. In its opinion, the Appellate Court remanded the case back to the U.S. District Court on the grounds that the RICO claims were premature and not yet ripe for adjudication, but concluded that the claims might become timely at some future point. The Appellate Court directed that the RICO claims be dismissed without prejudice to their being later reinstated. The Appellate Court, however, upheld the May 2002 Preliminary Injunction, finding that it was sufficiently supported by the fraud claims under Illinois law, and did not rule on the merits of the Uzans claim that this matter may only be resolved through arbitration in Switzerland. A discussion of the arbitration in Switzerland can be found in the section below entitled Foreign Proceedings. In accordance with the mandate from the Appellate Court, on April 3, 2003, the U.S. District Court dismissed the RICO claims without prejudice. On July 8, 2003, MCC filed a motion seeking to have its RICO claims reinstated on the grounds that pursuing further actions against Telsim would be futile. On July 31, 2003, the U.S. District Court entered a judgment in favor of MCC for $4.26 billion. The U.S. District Court declined to reinstate the RICO claims, but held that the court had jurisdiction to decide the merits of the Illinois fraud claims. MCCs fraud claims under Illinois common law fraud and civil conspiracy were sufficient to support a full judgment on behalf of MCC in the amount of $2.13 billion in compensatory damages. The U.S. District Court also awarded $2.13 billion in punitive damages. In addition, the preliminary injunction was converted into a permanent injunction, essentially unaltered in scope, and the U.S. District Court also ordered the Uzans arrested and imprisoned if they are found within 100 miles of the courts jurisdiction for being in contempt of court. On August 8, 2003, the U.S. District Court denied the Uzans request for a stay of execution of the judgment pending appeal. To stay execution, the Uzans were required to post a bond of $1 billion by August 15, 2003. The Uzans did not post the bond and instead appealed the U.S. District Court decision to the Appellate Court. On August 18, 2003, the Appellate Court assigned the appeal to a three judge panel and ruled that the statutory stay (which was to expire on August 18) would remain in place until the panel ruled. On August 18, 2003, Motorola and Nokia requested that the Appellate Court dismiss the Uzans appeal, based on the Uzans repeated failures to comply with court orders and their fugitive status. This motion was assigned to the same panel hearing the Uzans stay application. On September 27, 2003, the Appellate Court granted MCCs and Nokias motion, in part, dismissed the individual Uzans appeals and denied any stay of execution on the judgment against the individual Uzans. In addition, the Appellate Court vacated the judgment against the three corporate defendants and remanded certain questions to the U.S. District Court to decide in connection with the proceedings against the corporate defendants. The stay of execution was kept in place as against the corporate defendants. On October 3, 2003, the Uzans filed a motion seeking rehearing by the motions panel and or the entire Appellate Court and sought another stay of execution as against all of the defendants pending that determination. On February 6, 2004, the motions panel of the Appellate Court denied the Individual Defendants motion for reconsideration and stay of execution and issued a mandate. On February 18, 2004, the Individual Defendants filed with the Appellate Court a Petition for Rehearing En Banc to Review the Panels Order Directing that the Mandate Issue Forthwith. The motions panel of the Appellate Court, on February 19, 2004, on its own motion, sent a letter to the U.S. District Court purporting to withdraw the mandate it had issued on February 6, 2004. Table of Contents 26 The Company continues its recovery efforts and following the denial of the Uzans motion for a stay by the Appellate Court, MCC has begun liquidating Uzan assets in the United States, the United Kingdom and France. However, the Company continues to believe that the litigation, collection and or settlement processes will be very lengthy in light of the Uzans decision to violate various courts orders, including orders holding them in contempt of court. In addition, the Turkish government has asserted control over Telsim and certain other interests of the Uzans and this may make Motorolas collection efforts more difficult. Foreign Proceedings In 2002, the United Kingdoms High Court of Justice, Queens Bench Division (the UK Court), on motion of MCC, entered a worldwide freezing injunction against Cem Uzan, Hakan Uzan, Kemal Uzan and Aysegul Akay, freezing each of their assets up to a value of $200 million. The Uzans were ultimately held in contempt of court and ordered to be incarcerated for failing to make a full disclosure concerning their worldwide assets. On June 12, 2003, the UK Court of Appeal affirmed the lower courts decision against Cem Uzan and Aysegul Akay, but concluded that MCC was not able to enforce the freezing order against Hakan Uzan and Kemal Uzan because they had no assets in England and Wales. Consequently, the lower courts rulings as to Hakan Uzan and Kemal Uzan were reversed. MCC has appealed this aspect of the Court of Appeals decision. The Court of Appeal agreed to stay its Orders in relation to Hakan Uzan and Kemal Uzan, so that the Worldwide Freezing Orders remain effective against them and their worldwide assets, pending MCCs appeal to the House of Lords. As a result of the Court of Appeals decision, the UK assets of Cem Uzan and Aysegul Akay, which total approximately $12.7 million, remain frozen and MCC has commenced the execution process in satisfaction of the New York judgment. In December 2003, the House of Lords issued a final judgment, declining to hear an appeal from the Court of Appeals decision, thus keeping the Court of Appeals decision in place. Motorola has also filed attachment proceedings in several other foreign jurisdictions resulting in the preliminary seizure of assets owned by the Uzans and various entities within their control. On February 5, 2002, Telsim initiated arbitration against MCC in Switzerland at the Zurich Chamber of Commerce. In Telsims request for arbitration, Telsim acknowledged its debt, but has alleged that the disruption in the Turkish economy during 2001 should excuse Telsims failure to make payments on the MCC loans as required under the agreements between the parties. Telsim seeks a ruling excusing its failure to adhere to the original payment schedule and establishing a new schedule for repayment of Telsims debt to MCC. Telsim has failed to comply with its proposed new schedule, missing the first three payments totaling approximately $85 million. In August 2003, MCC moved the arbitration panel for a partial award, seeking a judgment for the $85 million. Telsim opposed the motion. On January 26, 2004, the arbitral tribunal granted MCCs request and entered a Partial Final Award in favor of MCC and against Telsim in the amount of $85 million. MCC will seek to enforce this award against Telsim in Turkey. MCC has requested a second partial award of $40 million from the arbitration panel to account for a loan payment that would have been due at year end 2003 even under Telsims proposed loan repayment schedule. The arbitration panel has not yet ruled on this request. On June 7, 2002, Rumeli Telfon (Rumeli) initiated arbitration against MCC in the Zurich Chamber of Commerce seeking a ruling requiring that MCC consent to Rumelis request to place the Diluted Stock into an escrow account in Switzerland. Both of these arbitrations are proceeding. On June 19, 2002, Telsim initiated arbitration against Motorola, Ltd. and Motorola Kom&uuml;nikasyon Ticaret ve Servis Ltd. Sti., both wholly owned subsidiaries of Motorola, before the International Chamber of Commerce in Zurich, Switzerland, initially seeking approximately 179 million pounds (approximately US$281 million) as damages for the defendants alleged sale of defective products to Telsim. Telsim increased the amount of its claim to approximately 300 million pounds (approximately US$479 million). Motorola has denied the claims and has filed a counterclaim. Hearings were held in January 2004 and further hearings are scheduled for mid March 2004 and June 2004. Class Action Securities Lawsuits A purported class action lawsuit, Barry Family LP v. Carl F. Koenemann, was filed against the former chief financial officer of Motorola, Inc. on December 24, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b 5. Thereafter, 18 additional putative class action complaints were filed in various federal courts against the Company, its former chief financial officer and various other individuals. The above complaints were all essentially identical and alleged that the price of Motorolas stock was artificially inflated by a failure to disclose vendor financing to Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A.S. (Telsim), in connection with the sale of telecommunications equipment by Motorola. In each of the complaints, plaintiffs proposed a class period of February 3, 2000 through May 14, 2001, and sought an unspecified amount of damages. Table of Contents 27 All of the above identified cases have been consolidated before the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (the Illinois District Court). A lead plaintiff has been selected by the Illinois District Court and on October 10, 2003, the plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated complaint. Motorola filed its motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint on November 5, 2003. The court has scheduled a status conference with all of the parties on March 24, 2004, at which time the court may rule on the motion to dismiss or otherwise indicate when a ruling may be forthcoming. In addition, a purported class action, Howell v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against Motorola and various of its officers and employees in the Illinois District Court alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The complaint alleged that the defendants had improperly permitted participants in Motorolas 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan (the Plan) to purchase or hold shares of common stock of Motorola because the price of Motorolas stock was artificially inflated by a failure to disclose vendor financing to Telsim in connection with the sale of telecommunications equipment by Motorola. The plaintiff sought to represent a class of participants in the Plan for whose individual accounts the Plan purchased or held shares of common stock of Motorola from May 16, 2000 to the present, and sought an unspecified amount of damages. On October 3, 2003, plaintiff filed an amended complaint asserting three claims for breach of fiduciary duties under ERISA against 24 defendants grouped into five categories. The amended complaint alleges the defendants violated ERISA by: (1) continuing to offer Motorola stock as an investment option under the Plan, even though it had become an imprudent investment due to Motorolas dealings with Telsim and other third parties; (2) negligently making misrepresentations and negligently failing to disclose material information necessary for Participants to make informed decisions concerning their participation in the Plan; and (3) failing to appoint fiduciaries with the knowledge and expertise necessary to manage Plan assets, failing to monitor those fiduciaries properly, and failing to provide sufficient information to Participants and other Plan fiduciaries. On December 9, 2003, all but one of the defendants filed their motion to dismiss. No date has been set by the Court for a ruling on the motion to dismiss. Charter Communications Class Action Securities Litigation On August 5, 2002, Stoneridge Investment Partners LLC filed a purported class action in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri against Charter Communications, Inc. (Charter) and certain of its officers, alleging violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5. This complaint did not name Motorola as a defendant, but asserted that Charter and the other named defendants had violated the securities laws in connection with, inter alia, a transaction with Motorola. In August 2003, the plaintiff amended its complaint to add Motorola, Inc. as a defendant. The amended complaint alleges that Motorola participated in a scheme with Charter in connection with this transaction to artificially inflate Charters earnings. On October 2, 2003, Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. No date has been set by the court for a ruling on the motion to dismiss. In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation On December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in two cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation (the Adelphia MDL). The Adelphia MDL consists of at least eleven individual cases and one purported class action that were filed in or have been transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. First, Motorola was named as a defendant in the Second Amended Complaint in the individual case of W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. v. Deloitte & Touche, et al. This case was originally filed by W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. on June 7, 2002, in the United States District Court for the Western District of New York and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as related to the Adelphia MDL. Several other individual and corporate defendants are also named in the amended complaint along with Motorola. As to Motorola, the complaint alleges a claim arising under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder, and seeks recovery of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia debt securities, compensatory damages, costs and expenses of litigation and other relief. Motorola has recently been served with this complaint, the case is in its early stages, and fact discovery has not yet begun. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss this complaint on March 8, 2004 and Motorola is vigorously defending the litigation. Also on December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in Stocke v. John J. Rigas, et al. This case was originally filed in Pennsylvania and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as Table of Contents 28 related to the Adelphia MDL. Several other individual and corporate defendants are also named in the amended complaint along with Motorola. As to Motorola, the complaint alleges a federal law claim arising under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder and a state law claim of aiding and abetting fraud relating to Adelphia securities. The complaint seeks return of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia securities, punitive damages, pre judgment and post judgment interest, costs and expenses of litigation and other relief. Motorola has recently received this complaint, and fact discovery has not yet begun. Motorola plans to file a motion to dismiss this complaint and Motorola is vigorously defending the litigation. Motorola is a defendant in various other suits, claims and investigations that arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, and other than discussed above with respect to the Iridium cases, the ultimate disposition of the Companys pending legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Following are the persons who were the executive officers of Motorola as of February 29, 2004, their ages as of January 1, 2004, their current titles and positions they have held during the last five years: Edward J. Zander; age 56; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 2004. Prior to joining Motorola, Mr. Zander was a managing director of Silver Lake Partners from July 2003 to December 2003. Prior to holding that position, Mr. Zander was President and COO of Sun Microsystems, Inc. from January 1998 until June 2002. Scott A. Anderson; age 50; Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Semiconductor Products Sector (SPS) since July 2003; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Transportation Systems Group, SPS from November 2000 to July 2003; Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Transportation Systems Group, SPS from February 1999 to November 2000; Corporate Vice President and Director, SPS Transition Management Organization from September 1998 to February 1999. Robert L. Barnett; age 63; Executive Vice President since January 2003; Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Commercial, Government and Industrial Solutions Sector from July 1998 to January 2003. Gregory Q. Brown; age 43; Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Commercial, Government and Industrial Solutions Sector since January 2003; Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Micromuse, Inc. from February 1999 to December 2002; President, Ameritech Custom Business Services from September 1996 to February 1999. Dennis J. Carey; age 57; Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Integrated Electronic Systems Sector since November 2002; Executive Vice President, Business Development, Strategy and Corporate Operations of The Home Depot, Inc. from May 2001 to March 2002; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Home Depot, Inc. from May 1998 to May 2001. Eugene A. Delaney; age 47; Executive Vice President and President, Global Relations and Resources Organization since July 2002; Senior Vice President and President, Global Relations and Resources Organization from February 2002 to July 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Customer Solutions Operations Asia/Pacific from October 2001 to February 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Telecom Carrier Solutions Group, Global Telecom Solutions Sector from August 2000 to October 2001; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Telecom Solutions Group, Communications Enterprise from April 1999 to August 2000; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Network Solutions Sector from May 1998 to April 1999. David W. Devonshire; age 58; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2002; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ingersoll Rand Company from January 2000 to January 2002; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ingersoll Rand Company from January 1998 to January 2000. Table of Contents 29 Glenn A. Gienko; age 51; Executive Vice President and Motorola Director of Human Resources since May 1996. A. Peter Lawson; age 57; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 1998. Thomas J. Lynch; age 49; Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Personal Communications Sector (PCS) since August 2002; Executive Vice President and President, Integrated Electronic Systems Sector from January 2001 to August 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Satellite & Broadcast Network Systems, Broadband Communications Sector from February 2000 to January 2001; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Satellite & Broadcast Network Systems, General Instrument Corporation from May 1998 to February 2000. Daniel M. Moloney; age 44; Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Broadband Communications Sector (BCS) since June 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, IP Systems Group, BCS from February 2000 to June 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Advanced Networks and Telecom Business Unit, General Instrument Corporation from July 1998 to January 2000. Adrian R. Nemcek; age 56; Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Global Telecom Solutions Sector (GTSS) since August 2002; Senior Vice President and President, GTSS from September 2001 to August 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Office of Strategy, GTSS from August 2000 to September 2001; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Customer Solutions Group, Network Solutions Sector from January 1999 to August 2000; Corporate Vice President and General Manager, EMEA Group, Cellular Infrastructure Group from March 1998 to January 1999. Leif G. Soderberg; age 49; Senior Vice President and Director, Global Strategy and Corporate Development since November 2002; Senior Vice President and Director, Corporate Strategy from April 2002 to November 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Strategy, Corporate Development and Industry Relations, Personal Communications Sector from September 2000 to April 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Systems Solutions Group, Commercial, Government and Industrial Solutions Sector from December 1998 to September 2000. Padmasree Warrior; age 43; Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since January 2003; Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Energy Systems Group, Integrated Electronic Systems Sector from April 2002 to January 2003; Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Thoughtbeam, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Motorola, Inc., from October 2001 to April 2002; Corporate Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and Director, DigitalDNA Laboratories, Semiconductor Products Sector (SPS) from December 2000 to October 2001; Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and Director, DigitalDNA Laboratories, SPS from July 2000 to December 2000; Vice President and Assistant Director, DigitalDNA Laboratories, SPS from August 1999 to July 2000; Vice President and Director, HiPerMOS and RFLDMOS Device Center of Excellence, SPS from February 1999 to August 1999; Director, HiPerMOS and RFLDMOS Device Center of Excellence, SPS from June 1997 to February 1999. Mike S. Zafirovski; age 50; President and Chief Operating Officer since July 2002; Executive Vice President and President, Personal Communications Sector from June 2000 to July 2002. Prior to joining Motorola, Mr. Zafirovski was at the General Electric Company for more than 24 years in several senior positions, including President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Lighting, General Electric Company from July 1999 to May 2000; President of GE Lighting, Europe, Middle East and Africa, General Electric Company from April 1996 to June 1999. The above executive officers will serve as executive officers of Motorola until the regular meeting of the Board of Directors in May 2004 or until their respective successors shall have been elected. There is no family relationship between any of the executive officers listed above. Table of Contents 30 PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Motorolas common stock is listed on the New York, Chicago and Tokyo Stock Exchanges. The number of stockholders of record of Motorola common stock on January 31, 2004 was 96,856. The remainder of the response to this Item incorporates by reference Note 15, Quarterly and Other Financial Data (unaudited) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on page 131 under 
 
