Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this document. Available Information We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorola.com/investor, our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements, other Exchange Act reports and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SECs website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents: Motorola, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation Motorola, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws Motorola, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines Motorola, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola, Inc. Board of Directors Motorola Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer) Audit and Legal Committee Charter Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter Governance and Nominating Committee Charter All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E mail: investors@motorola.com, phone: 1 800 262 8509. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Table of Contents 20 Item 2: Properties Motorolas principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. Motorola also operates manufacturing facilities and sales offices in other U.S. locations and in many other countries. (See Item 1: Business for information regarding the location of the principal manufacturing facilities for each of Motorolas business segments.) Motorola owns 55 facilities (manufacturing, sales, service and office), 31 of which are located in North America and 24 of which are located in other countries. Motorola leases 295 facilities, 118 of which are located in North America and 177 of which are located in other countries. As compared to 2003, the number of facilities owned or leased was reduced primarily because of the spin off of Freescale Semiconductor, the entity comprised of Motorolas former semiconductor operations, during 2004. In addition, as part of Motorolas overall strategy to reduce operating costs and improve the financial performance of the corporation, a number of businesses and facilities have either been sold or are currently for sale. During 2004, facilities in Tempe, Arizona; Northbrook, Illinois; Mesa, Arizona; and Swindon, England were sold. A facility in Harvard, Illinois is currently up for sale. Motorola generally considers the productive capacity of the plants operated by each of its business segments to be adequate and sufficient for the requirements of each business group. The extent of utilization of such manufacturing facilities varies from plant to plant and from time to time during the year. A substantial portion of Motorolas products are manufactured in Asia, primarily China, either in our own facilities or in the facilities of others who manufacture and assemble products for Motorola. If manufacturing in the region was disrupted, Motorolas overall productive capacity could be significantly reduced. Item 3: Legal Proceedings Personal Injury Cases Cases relating to Wireless Telephone Usage Motorola has been a defendant in several cases arising out of its manufacture and sale of wireless telephones. Jerald P. Busse, et al. v. Motorola, Inc. et al., filed October 26, 1995 in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, is a class action alleging the defendants have failed to adequately warn consumers of the alleged dangers of cellular telephones and challenging ongoing safety studies as invasions of privacy. The Circuit Court entered summary judgment in defendants favor in 2002. In June 2004, the Illinois Appellate Court affirmed the summary judgment and dismissal of the case. In January 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court denied plaintiffs Petition for Leave to Appeal. During 2001, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred five cases, Naquin, et al., v. Nokia Mobile Phones, et al., Pinney and Colonell v. Nokia, Inc., et al., Gillian et al., v. Nokia, Inc., et al., Farina v. Nokia, Inc., et al., and Gimpelson v. Nokia Inc, et. al., which allege that the failure to incorporate a remote headset into cellular phones rendered the phones defective and that cellular phones cause undisclosed injury to cells and other health risks, to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings in the matter called In re Wireless Telephone Radio Frequency Emissions Products Liability Litigation. On March 5, 2003, the MDL Court dismissed with prejudice, on federal preemption grounds, the five cases. Plaintiffs appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit; the appeal has been briefed and argued, but no decision has been announced. During 2002, the MDL panel transferred and consolidated six additional cases, Murray v. Motorola, Inc., et al., Agro et. al., v. Motorola, Inc., et al., Cochran et. al., v. Audiovox Corporation, et al., Schofield et al., v. Matsushita Electric Corporation of America, et al., each of which alleges that use of a cellular phone caused a malignant brain tumor, Dahlgren v. Motorola, Inc., et al., which alleges that defendants manufactured and sold cell phones that increase the risk of adverse cellular reaction and or cellular dysfunction and failed to disclose biological effects, and Brower v. Motorola, Inc., et al., which contains allegations similar to Murray and Dahlgren, with the MDL Proceeding. On July 19, 2004, the District Court for the District of Maryland found that there was no federal court jurisdiction over Murray, Agro, Cochran and Schofield and remanded those cases to the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. On November 30, 2004, defendants moved to dismiss the Murray, Agro, Cochran and Schofield complaints. Table of Contents 21 Case relating to Two Way Radio Usage On January 23, 2004, Motorola was added as a co defendant with New York City in Virgilio et al. v. Motorola et al., filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The suit was originally filed in December 2003 (against New York City alone) on behalf of twelve New York City firefighters who died in the attack on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. The amended complaint alleges that the twelve firefighters died because the Motorola two way radios they were using were defective and did not receive evacuation orders and because the City of New York and Motorola committed wrongful acts in connection with a bid process that was designed to provide new radios to the New York City Fire Department. Plaintiffs have asserted claims for wrongful death due to a defect in product design, wrongful death for failure to warn, wrongful death due to fraudulent misrepresentations and deceitful conduct, wrongful death due to negligent misrepresentations, and concerted action against both Motorola and the City of New York. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages against Motorola in excess of $5 billion. On March 10, 2004, the court, to which all September 11 litigation has been assigned, granted Motorolas and the other defendants motion to dismiss the complaint on the grounds that all of the Virgilio plaintiffs had filed claims with the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund, that the statutory scheme clearly required injured parties to elect between the remedy provided by this Fund and the remedy of traditional litigation and that plaintiffs, by pursuing the Fund, had chosen not to pursue litigation. On April 12, 2004, plaintiffs appealed to the United States Court of Appeal for the Second Circuit. Iridium Related Cases Class Action Securities Lawsuits Motorola has been named as one of several defendants in putative class action securities lawsuits arising out of alleged misrepresentations or omissions regarding the Iridium satellite communications business, which on March 15, 2001, were consolidated in the District of Columbia under Freeland v. Iridium World Communications, Inc., et al., originally filed on April 22, 1999. On August 31, 2004, the court denied the motions to dismiss that had been filed on July 15, 2002 by Motorola and the other defendants. Bankruptcy Court Lawsuit Motorola was sued by the Official Committee of the Unsecured Creditors of Iridium in the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York on July 19, 2001. In re Iridium Operating LLC, et al. v. Motorola asserts claims for breach of contract, warranty, fiduciary duty, and fraudulent transfer and preferences, and seeks in excess of $4 billion in damages. Iridium India Lawsuits Motorola and certain of its current and former officers and directors were named as defendants in a private criminal complaint filed by Iridium India Telecom Ltd. (Iridium India) in October 2001 in the Court of the Extra Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Khadki, Pune, India. The Iridium India Telecom Ltd. v. Motorola, Inc. et al. complaint alleges that the defendants conspired to, and did, commit the criminal offense of cheating by fraudulently inducing Iridium India to purchase gateway equipment from Motorola, acquire Iridium stock, and invest in developing a market for Iridium services in India. Under the Indian penal code, cheating is punishable by imprisonment for up to 7 years and a fine of any amount. The court may also require defendants to compensate the victim for its losses, which the complaint estimates at about $100 million. In August 2003, the Bombay High Court granted Motorolas petition to dismiss the criminal action against Motorola and the individual defendants. Iridium India has petitioned the Indian Supreme Court to exercise its discretion to review that dismissal, and that petition is pending. In September 2002, Iridium India also filed a civil suit in the Bombay High Court against Motorola and Iridium. The suit alleges fraud, intentional misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation by Motorola and Iridium in inducing Iridium India to purchase gateway equipment from Motorola, acquire Iridium stock, and invest in developing a market for Iridium services in India. Iridium India claims in excess of $200 million in damages and interest. Following extensive proceedings in the trial court and on appeal related to Iridium Indias motion for Table of Contents 22 interim relief, Motorola has deposited approximately $44 million in a specially designated account in India, and the Indian Supreme Court has accepted for a full hearing at a later date Motorolas appeal regarding interim relief. Shareholder Derivative Case M&C Partners III v. Galvin, et al., filed January 10, 2002, in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, is a shareholder derivative action filed derivatively on behalf of Motorola against fifteen current and former members of the Motorola Board of Directors and Motorola as a nominal defendant. The lawsuit alleges that the Motorola directors breached their fiduciary duty to the Company and or committed gross mismanagement of Motorolas business and assets by allowing Motorola to engage in improper practices with respect to Iridium. In October 2003, the court dismissed plaintiffs amended complaint in its entirety without prejudice. In May 2004, plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint and served a demand on the Motorola Board of Directors to investigate the alleged wrongful conduct. At a July 10, 2004 Special Board Meeting, Motorolas Board appointed an investigatory committee to: (i) evaluate the plaintiffs demand, and (ii) report back to the Board with a recommendation. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the Iridium related cases still pending could have a material adverse effect on Motorolas consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Telsim Related Cases Motorola is owed approximately $2 billion under loans to Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A.S. (Telsim), a wireless telephone operator in Turkey. Telsim defaulted on the payment of these loans in April 2001. The Company fully reserved the carrying value of the Telsim loans in the second quarter of 2002. The Company is involved in the following legal proceedings related to Telsim. The Uzan family formerly controlled Telsim. Telsim and its related companies are now under the control of the Turkish government. U.S. Case On January 28, 2002, Motorola Credit Corporation (MCC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Motorola, initiated a civil action with Nokia Corporation (Nokia), Motorola Credit Corporation and Nokia Corporation v. Kemal Uzan, et al., against several members of the Uzan family, as well as one of their employees and controlled companies, alleging that the defendants engaged in a pattern of racketeering activity and violated various state and federal laws including Illinois common law fraud and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, commonly known as RICO. The suit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the U.S. District Court). The U.S. District Court issued its final ruling on July 31, 2003 as described below. Upon filing the action, MCC and Nokia were able to attach various Uzan owned real estate in New York. Subsequently, this attachment order was expanded to include a number of bank accounts, including those owned indirectly by the Uzans. On May 9, 2002, the U.S. District Court entered a preliminary injunction confirming the prejudgment relief previously granted. These attachments remain in place. The U.S. District Court tried the case without a jury to conclusion on February 19, 2003. Subsequent to the trial of the case, and before a final ruling had been issued, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the Appellate Court) issued an opinion on March 7, 2003 regarding a series of appeals filed by the Uzans from the U.S. District Courts earlier rulings. In its opinion, the Appellate Court remanded the case back to the U.S. District Court on the grounds that the RICO claims were premature and not yet ripe for adjudication. The Appellate Court directed that the RICO claims be dismissed without prejudice to their being later reinstated. The Appellate Court, however, upheld the May 2002 Preliminary Injunction, finding that it was sufficiently supported by the fraud claims under Illinois law. In accordance with the mandate from the Appellate Court, on April 3, 2003, the U.S. District Court dismissed the RICO claims without prejudice. On July 8, 2003, MCC filed a motion seeking to have its RICO claims reinstated on the grounds that pursuing further actions against Telsim would be futile. On July 31, 2003, the U.S. District Court entered a judgment in favor of MCC for $4.26 billion. The U.S. District Court declined to reinstate the RICO claims (without prejudice to reinstatement), but held that the court had jurisdiction to decide the merits of the Illinois fraud claims. MCCs fraud claims under Illinois common Table of Contents 23 law fraud and civil conspiracy were sufficient to support a full judgment on behalf of MCC in the amount of $2.13 billion in compensatory damages. The U.S. District Court also awarded $2.13 billion in punitive damages. In addition, the preliminary injunction was converted into a permanent injunction, essentially unaltered in scope, and the U.S. District Court also ordered the Uzans arrested and imprisoned if they are found within 100 miles of the courts jurisdiction for being in contempt of court. Thereafter, the Uzans appealed the U.S. District Court decision to the Appellate Court. Over the next nine months, execution on the judgment was, at different times, allowed to go forward and then stayed by the Appellate Court. For some period of time, the Uzans appeal was dismissed by the Appellate Court. On April 16, 2004, the Appellate Court reinstated the Uzans appeal and reinstated a stay of execution on the judgment. On August 11, 2004, the Appellate Court lifted the stay of execution, in part, and allowed MCC to execute on its judgment up to the full amount of the compensatory damages, $2.13 billion. The Appellate Court kept the stay in place with respect to the punitive damages and on that portion of the judgment which would have allowed Motorola to execute against entities owned and controlled by the Uzans. As a result, MCCs efforts to execute on its judgment against the Uzans were recommenced in the United States, United Kingdom, Bermuda and France, and the Company has begun to realize some collections on its judgment. On October 22, 2004, the Appellate Court affirmed the July 31, 2003 judgment as to the compensatory damages of $2.13 billion. The Appellate Court remanded three issues to the U.S. District Court for additional findings and analysis. The issues are: (1) whether the U.S. District Court was correct in imposing a constructive trust over the stolen shares in favor of Motorola (the constructive trust was affirmed as to Nokia); (2) whether Motorola may collect its judgment against non party companies owned and controlled by the Uzans, and (3) the amount of punitive damages the U.S. District Court may impose against defendants in favor of Motorola. As a result of this decision, enforcement actions have also recommenced in Switzerland and Germany. On November 5, 2004, defendants filed a petition for rehearing and rehearing en banc by the entire Appellate Court. On December 16, 2004, the Appellate Court denied the Uzans petition for rehearing and rehearing en banc with respect to the Appellate Courts October 22, 2004 decision affirming the July 31, 2003 judgment as to compensatory damages of $2.13 billion. The mandate was issued by the Second Circuit on December 30, 2004, making this decision final. A remand to the district court on the issues on which the Appellate Court requested clarification is pending. As the result of the lifting of the stay and the re commencing of the Companys collection efforts, Motorola realized $44 million in the fourth quarter of 2004 on its judgment against the Uzans. The Company continues to believe that the litigation, collection and or settlement processes will be very lengthy in light of the Uzans continued resistance to satisfy the judgment against them and their decision to violate various courts orders, including orders holding them in contempt of court. In addition, the Turkish government has asserted control and priority over Telsim and certain other interests and assets of the Uzans and this may make Motorolas collection efforts in Turkey more difficult. Foreign Proceedings In 2002, the United Kingdoms High Court of Justice, Queens Bench Division (the UK Court), on motion of MCC, entered a worldwide freezing injunction against Cem Uzan, Hakan Uzan, Kemal Uzan and Aysegul Akay, freezing each of their assets up to a value of $200 million. The Uzans were ultimately held in contempt of court and ordered to be incarcerated for failing to make a full disclosure concerning their worldwide assets. On June 12, 2003, the UK Court of Appeal affirmed the lower courts decision against Cem Uzan and Aysegul Akay, but concluded that MCC was not able to enforce the freezing order against Hakan Uzan and Kemal Uzan because they had no assets in England and Wales. Consequently, the lower courts rulings as to Hakan Uzan and Kemal Uzan were reversed. As a result of the Court of Appeals decision, the UK assets of Cem Uzan and Aysegul Akay, which total approximately $12.7 million, remain frozen and MCC previously commenced the execution process in satisfaction of the U.S. District Court judgment. A hearing was held on December 6, 2004 at MCCs request to domesticate its U.S. District Court judgment in the United Kingdom. MCCs request was granted and the U.S. judgment is now recognized in the United Kingdom, allowing MCC to execute on Uzan assets in the UK. Motorola has also filed attachment proceedings in several other foreign jurisdictions resulting in the preliminary seizure of assets owned by the Uzans and various entities within their control. As set forth above, some of these execution proceedings are now ongoing (with some resulting payments to the Company), while others remain stayed. Table of Contents 24 On February 5, 2002, Telsim initiated arbitration against MCC in Switzerland at the Zurich Chamber of Commerce. In Telsims request for arbitration, Telsim acknowledged its debt, but has alleged that the disruption in the Turkish economy during 2001 should excuse Telsims failure to make payments on the MCC loans as required under the agreements between the parties. Telsim seeks a ruling excusing its failure to adhere to the original payment schedule and establishing a new schedule for repayment of Telsims debt to MCC. Telsim has failed to comply with its proposed new schedule, missing the first three payments totaling approximately $85 million. In August 2003, MCC made a motion to the arbitration panel for a partial award, seeking a judgment for the $85 million. On January 26, 2004, the arbitral tribunal granted MCCs request and entered a Partial Final Award in favor of MCC and against Telsim in the amount of $85 million. MCC has initiated proceedings to enforce this award against Telsim in Turkey. This proceeding has been discontinued (without prejudice) while MCC appeals the Turkish courts ruling that MCC pay a multi million dollar court fee. MCC requested a second partial award of $40 million from the arbitration panel to account for a loan payment that would have been due at year end 2003 even under Telsims proposed loan repayment schedule. In June 2004, MCC filed a request for a further award of $1.73 billion based on alleged further breaches of the financing agreements and a reply in support of MCCs request for the $40 million partial award. On November 25, 2004, the arbitral tribunal granted MCCs request and entered a Partial Final Award in favor of MCC and against Telsim in the amount of $40 million. Motorola expects to initiate proceedings to enforce this award against Telsim in Turkey. Motorola is awaiting a ruling from the arbitral tribunal with respect to the request for $1.73 billion. In December 2004, a final round of hearings was held on all outstanding issues and the case is now before the panel for final adjudication. On June 7, 2002, Rumeli Telfon (Rumeli) initiated arbitration against MCC in the Zurich Chamber of Commerce seeking a ruling requiring that MCC consent to Rumelis request to place the stock that was pledged to MCC (including improperly issued new shares, that effectively diluted MCCs pledge from the contractually mandated 66% interest to a 22% interest) into an escrow account in Switzerland. Pursuant to the request of Rumeli, this arbitration was stayed. Upon the Companys request, the panel has re started this arbitration. On June 19, 2002, Telsim initiated arbitration against Motorola, Ltd. and Motorola Komunikasyon Ticaret v.p. Servis Ltd. Sti., both wholly owned subsidiaries of Motorola, before the International Chamber of Commerce in Zurich, Switzerland, initially seeking approximately 179 million pounds as damages for the defendants alleged sale of defective products to Telsim. Telsim increased the amount of its claim to approximately 300 million pounds. Motorola has denied the claims and has filed a counterclaim valued at approximately $20 million. On July 16, 2004, the arbitral panel ruled in favor of Motorolas contention that an overall cap of liability applied to Telsims claims, but has not yet ruled on how the cap is to be computed. On October 13, 2004, Motorola filed an arbitration claim in Washington, D.C., under a United States Turkey bilateral investment treaty involving the Turkish government, which currently controls Telsim and claims priority over Motorolas interest in Telsim. Motorola claims that the Turkish government has expropriated Motorolas investment in Telsim by taking over Telsim, obtaining injunctions purportedly prohibiting Telsim from paying MCCs debt, and passing legislation requiring that Telsim be sold and that the proceeds of the sale be distributed first to the Turkish government, in priority over MCCs claims. Motorola seeks, among other things, a judgment in the amount of $2 billion. On December 28, 2004, the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes registered Motorolas Request for Arbitration, thus finding that, at a minimum, there is a possibility of jurisdiction for Motorolas claims. Class Action Securities Lawsuits A purported class action lawsuit, Barry Family LP v. Carl F. Koenemann, was filed against the former chief financial officer of Motorola on December 24, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b 5. It has been consolidated before the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (the Illinois District Court) with 18 additional putative class action complaints which were filed in various federal courts against the Company, its former chief financial officer and various other individuals, alleging that the price of Motorolas stock was artificially inflated by a failure to disclose vendor financing to Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A.S. (Telsim), in connection with the sale of telecommunications equipment by Motorola. In each of the complaints, plaintiffs proposed a class period of February 3, 2000 through May 14, 2001, and sought an unspecified amount of damages. On August 25, 2004, the Illinois District Court issued its decision on Motorolas motion to dismiss, granting the motion in part and denying it in part. The court dismissed without prejudice the fraud claims against the individual defendants and denied the motion to dismiss as to Motorola. The plaintiffs chose not to file an amended complaint; therefore, the fraud claims against the individual defendants are Table of Contents 25 dismissed. The court, however, declined to dismiss the plaintiffs claims that the individual defendants were controlling persons of Motorola. In addition, a purported class action, Howell v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against Motorola and various of its officers and employees in the Illinois District Court on July 21, 2003, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The complaint alleged the defendants had improperly permitted participants in Motorolas 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan (the Plan) to purchase or hold shares of common stock of Motorola because the price of Motorolas stock was artificially inflated by a failure to disclose vendor financing to Telsim in connection with the sale of telecommunications equipment by Motorola. The plaintiff sought to represent a class of participants in the Plan for whose individual accounts the Plan purchased or held shares of common stock of Motorola from May 16, 2000 to the present, and sought an unspecified amount of damages. On October 3, 2003, plaintiff filed an amended complaint asserting three claims for breach of fiduciary duties under ERISA against 24 defendants grouped into five categories. The amended complaint alleges the defendants violated ERISA by: (1) continuing to offer Motorola stock as an investment option under the Plan, even though it had become an imprudent investment due to Motorolas dealings with Telsim and other third parties; (2) negligently making misrepresentations and negligently failing to disclose material information necessary for Participants to make informed decisions concerning their participation in the Plan; and (3) failing to appoint fiduciaries with the knowledge and expertise necessary to manage Plan assets, failing to monitor those fiduciaries properly, and failing to provide sufficient information to Participants and other Plan fiduciaries. On December 9, 2003, all but one of the defendants filed their motion to dismiss. On September 23, 2004, the Illinois District Court granted the motion in part and denied it in part. The court dismissed the plan committee defendants from the case, without prejudice, and left all other defendants in the lawsuit. On October 15, 2004, Howell filed a second amended complaint and a motion for class certification. On December 3, 2004, Defendants filed a Motion for Summary Judgment seeking to dismiss Plaintiff Howells individual claims. Charter Communications Class Action Securities Litigation On August 5, 2002, Stoneridge Investment Partners LLC filed a purported class action in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri against Charter Communications, Inc. (Charter) and certain of its officers, alleging violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5. This complaint did not name Motorola as a defendant, but asserted that Charter and the other named defendants had violated the securities laws in connection with, inter alia, a transaction with Motorola. In August 2003, the plaintiff amended its complaint to add Motorola, Inc. as a defendant. The amended complaint alleges that Motorola participated in a scheme with Charter in connection with this transaction to artificially inflate Charters earnings. On October 12, 2004, the court granted Motorolas motion to dismiss, holding that there is no civil liability under the federal securities laws for aiding and abetting. On October 26, 2004, the plaintiff filed a motion for the reconsideration of the courts decision. On December 20, 2004, the court issued its ruling denying plaintiffs motion for reconsideration of its earlier decision to dismiss the complaint against Motorola. The court issued a final judgement dismissing Motorola from the case on February 15, 2005. In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation On December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in two cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation (the Adelphia MDL). The Adelphia MDL consists of at least eleven individual cases and one purported class action that were filed in or have been transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. First, Motorola was named as a defendant in the Second Amended Complaint in the individual case of W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. v. Deloitte & Touche, et al. This case was originally filed by W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. on June 7, 2002, in the United States District Court for the Western District of New York and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as related to the Adelphia MDL. Several other individual and corporate defendants are also named in the amended complaint along with Motorola. As to Motorola, the complaint alleges a claim arising under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder, and seeks recovery of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia debt securities, compensatory damages, costs and expenses of litigation and other relief. Motorola has recently been served with this complaint, the case is in its early stages, and fact discovery has not yet begun. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss this complaint on March 8, 2004. Table of Contents 26 Also on December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in Stocke v. John J. Rigas, et al. This case was originally filed in Pennsylvania and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as related to the Adelphia MDL. Several other individual and corporate defendants are also named in the amended complaint along with Motorola. As to Motorola, the complaint alleges a federal law claim arising under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder and a state law claim of aiding and abetting fraud relating to Adelphia securities. The complaint seeks return of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia securities, punitive damages, pre judgment and post judgment interest, costs and expenses of litigation and other relief. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss this complaint on April 12, 2004. On July 23, 2004, Motorola was named as a defendant in Argent Classic Convertible Arbitrage Fund L.P., et al. v. Scientific Atlanta, Inc., et al. (the Argent Complaint). The Argent Complaint was filed against Scientific Atlanta and Motorola in the Southern District of New York. The Argent Complaint alleges a federal law claim arising under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder relating to Adelphia securities. On October 12, 2004, Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the Argent Complaint. On September 15, 2004, Motorola was named in a complaint filed in state court in Los Angeles, California, naming Motorola and Scientific Atlanta and certain officers of Scientific Atlanta, Los Angeles County Employees Retirement Association et al. v. Motorola, Inc., et al. The complaint raises claims under California law for aiding and abetting fraud and conspiracy to defraud and generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have been transferred to the Southern District of New York. There are no new substantive allegations. On October 8, 2004, Motorola filed a motion to remove the California state court case to federal court in California. On December 1, 2004, the Multi District Litigation Panel issued a conditional transfer order transferring the case to federal court in New York. Plaintiffs did not object to the conditional transfer order, and the order transferring the case to New York is now final. On October 25, 2004, Motorola was named in a complaint filed in state court in Fulton County, Georgia, naming Motorola and Scientific Atlanta and certain officers of Scientific Atlanta, AIG DKR SoundShore Holdings, Ltd., et al. v. Scientific Atlanta, et al. The complaint raises claims under Georgia law of conspiracy to defraud and generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have already been filed and transferred or are in the process of being transferred to the Southern District of New York. On November 22, 2004, Motorola filed a petition to remove the state court case to federal court in Georgia and a notice with the Multi District Panel requesting the case be transferred to New York. On January 5, 2005, the Multi District Panel issued a conditional transfer order, transferring the case to federal court in New York. On January 20, 2005, the plaintiffs filed an objection before the Multi District Panel, contesting the conditional transfer order. Motorola has filed an opposition brief to their objection. Motorola is a defendant in various other suits, claims and investigations that arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, and other than discussed above with respect to the Iridium cases, the ultimate disposition of the Companys pending legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Table of Contents 27 Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Following are the persons who were the executive officers of Motorola as of February 28, 2005, their ages as of January 1, 2005, their current titles and positions they have held during the last five years: Edward J. Zander; age 57; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 2004. Prior to joining Motorola, Mr. Zander was a managing director of Silver Lake Partners from July 2003 to December 2003. Prior to holding that position, Mr. Zander was President and COO of Sun Microsystems, Inc. from January 1998 until June 2002. Gregory Q. Brown; age 44; Executive Vice President and President, Government & Enterprise Mobility Solutions since January 2005; Executive Vice President and President, Commercial, Government and Industrial Solutions Sector from January 2003 to January 2005; Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Micromuse, Inc. from February 1999 to December 2002. Dennis J. Carey; age 58; Executive Vice President since January 2005; Executive Vice President and President, Integrated Electronic Systems Sector from November 2002 to January 2005; Executive Vice President, Business Development, Strategy and Corporate Operations of The Home Depot, Inc. from May 2001 to March 2002; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Home Depot, Inc. from May 1998 to May 2001. Eugene A. Delaney; age 48; Executive Vice President and President, Global Relations and Resources Organization since July 2002; Senior Vice President and President, Global Relations and Resources Organization from February 2002 to July 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Customer Solutions Operations Asia/ Pacific from October 2001 to February 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Telecom Carrier Solutions Group, Global Telecom Solutions Sector from August 2000 to October 2001; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Telecom Solutions Group, Communications Enterprise from April 1999 to August 2000. David W. Devonshire; age 59; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2002; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ingersoll Rand Company from January 2000 to January 2002. Ruth A. Fattori; age 52; Executive Vice President, Human Resources since November 2004; Senior Vice President, JP Morgan Chase & Co., from April 2003 to November 2004; Executive Vice President, Process and Productivity, Conseco, Inc. from January 2001 to December 2002; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Siemens Corporation from October 1999 to January 2001. Ronald Garriques; age 40; Executive Vice President and President, Mobile Devices since January 2005; Executive Vice President and President, Personal Communications Sector (PCS) from September 2004 to January 2005; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Europe, Middle East & Africa, PCS from September 2002 to September 2004; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Worldwide Product Line Management, PCS from February 2001 to September 2002; Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Goal Oriented Product Line, PCS from September 2000 to February 2001; Vice President and Director, Program Management, PCS from April 2000 to September 2000; Vice President and General Manager, Performance Category, Communications Enterprise from December 1998 to April 2000. A. Peter Lawson; age 58; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 1998. Daniel M. Moloney; age 45; Executive Vice President and President, Connected Home Solutions since January 2005; Executive Vice President and President, Broadband Communications Sector (BCS) from June 2002 to January 2005; Senior Vice President and General Manager, IP Systems Group, BCS from February 2000 to June 2002. Adrian R. Nemcek; age 57; Executive Vice President and President, Networks since January 2005; Executive Vice President and President, Global Telecom Solutions Sector (GTSS) from August 2002 to January 2005; Senior Vice President and President, GTSS from September 2001 to August 2002; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Office of Strategy, GTSS from August 2000 to September 2001; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Customer Solutions Group, Network Solutions Sector from January 1999 to August 2000. Table of Contents 28 Richard N. Nottenburg; age 50; Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer since March 2005; Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer from July 2004 to March 2005; Strategic Advisor to Motorola, Inc. February 2004 to July 2004; Vice President and General Manager of Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation from August 2003 to January 2004; Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Multilink from January 1995 to August 2003. Padmasree Warrior; age 44; Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since March 2005; Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer from January 2003 to March 2005; Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Energy Systems Group, Integrated Electronic Systems Sector from April 2002 to January 2003; Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Thoughtbeam, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Motorola, Inc., from October 2001 to April 2002; Corporate Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and Director, DigitalDNA Laboratories, Semiconductor Products Sector (SPS) from December 2000 to October 2001; Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and Director, DigitalDNA Laboratories, SPS from July 2000 to December 2000; Vice President and Assistant Director, DigitalDNA Laboratories, SPS from August 1999 to July 2000. The above executive officers will serve as executive officers of Motorola until the regular meeting of the Board of Directors in May 2005 or until their respective successors shall have been elected. There is no family relationship between any of the executive officers listed above. Table of Contents 29 PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Motorolas common stock is listed on the New York, Chicago and Tokyo Stock Exchanges. The number of stockholders of record of Motorola common stock on January 31, 2005 was 85,517. The remainder of the response to this Item incorporates by reference Note 15, Quarterly and Other Financial Data (unaudited) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on page 125 under 
 
