Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item A: Risk Factors of this document. Available Information We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorola.com/investor, our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SECs website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents: Motorola, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation Motorola, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws Motorola, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines Motorola, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola, Inc. Board of Directors Motorola Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer) Audit and Legal Committee Charter Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter Governance and Nominating Committee Charter All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E mail: investors@motorola.com, phone: 1 800 262 8509. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Table of Contents 16 Item 1A: Risk Factors We wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this report or our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. The demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of the industries in which we participate. A market decline in any one of these industries could have an adverse effect on our business. The rate at which the portions of the telecommunications industry in which we participate continue to grow is critical to our ability to improve our overall financial performance and we could be negatively impacted by a slowdown. Our business was very negatively impacted by the economic slowdown and the corresponding reduction in capital spending by the telecommunications industry from 2001 to 2003. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and more than half of our net sales are made to customers outside of the U.S. In addition, we have many manufacturing, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and more than half of our employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our suppliers are outside the U.S. and most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. As with all companies that have sizeable sales and operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to: (1) tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes; (2) regulations related to customs and import/export matters; (3) longer payment cycles; (4) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., and difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner; (5) currency fluctuations, particularly in the Euro, Chinese renminbi and Brazilian real; (6) foreign exchange regulations, which may limit the Companys ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency; (7) challenges in collecting accounts receivable; (8) cultural and language differences; (9) employment regulations and local labor conditions; (10) difficulties protecting IP in foreign countries; (11) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; (12) natural disasters; (13) public health issues or outbreaks; and (14) the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. Many of our products that are manufactured outside of the U.S. are manufactured in Asia. In particular, we have sizeable operations in China, including manufacturing operations, and 11% of our net sales are made to customers in China. The legal system in China is still developing and is subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in China could be adversely impacted by changes to or interpretation of Chinese law. Further, if manufacturing in the region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. We also are increasing our presence and or selling more of our products in emerging markets such as India and Russia. We face challenges in emerging markets, including creating demand for our products and the negative impact of changes in the laws, or the interpretation of the laws, in those countries. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be adversely affected. Occasionally, some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. These issues may be caused by the components we purchase from other manufacturers. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our distributors or end user customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such pre shipment and post shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer imposed penalties on Motorola for failure to meet contractual requirements, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation. Table of Contents 17 In some cases, if the quality issue affects the products safety or regulatory compliance, then such a defective product may need to be recalled. Depending on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the field, it can cause the Company to incur substantial recall costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders, and the damage to the Companys goodwill or brand/reputation. In addition, the Company may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that the Company receives from the contracts. Recalls involving regulatory agencies can also result in fines and additional costs. Finally, recalls can result in third party litigation, including class action litigation by persons alleging common harm resulting from the purchase of the products. We operate in highly competitive markets and our financial results will be affected if we are not able to compete effectively. The markets for our products are highly competitive with respect to, among other factors: pricing, product and service quality, and the time required to introduce new products and services. The markets for many of our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, or may offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer. We can give no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions makes budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce demand for our products. Current conditions in the domestic and global economies are uncertain. The U.S. involvement in Iraq and other global conflicts, including in the Middle East, as well as public health issues, have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted the global economy. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth for the world economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth in various parts of the world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures difficult. We have sizable manufacturing operations and engineering resources in Israel that could be disrupted as a result of hostilities in the region. We also sell our products and services throughout the Middle East and demand for our products and services could be negatively impacted by hostilities. The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies will have a significant impact on our overall performance. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts and public health issues has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components to meet the demands of our customers. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. We have experienced shortages in the past that have adversely affected our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Furthermore, certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by our significant investments in new products and technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products and upgrades of current products to comply with emerging industry standards and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our Table of Contents 18 competitors. The research and development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted and are not commercially viable. In addition, products may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment. If our products are not competitive or do not work properly, our business will suffer. Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products, such as: seamless mobility products; advanced wireless handsets; WiMAX and other advanced technologies for wireless broadband networks; products for transmission of telephony and high speed data over hybrid fiber coaxial cable systems; integrated digital radios; and integrated public safety systems. These risks include: (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products; (ii) customer acceptance of products; (iii) the development of, approval and compliance with industry standards; (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technology; and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets. Our success, in part, will be affected by the ability of our wireless businesses to successfully compete in the ever evolving markets in which we participate. We face intense competition in these markets from both established companies and new entrants. Product life cycles can be short and new products are expensive to develop and bring to market. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to form successful strategic alliances. If these arrangements do not develop as expected, our business may be adversely impacted. We currently partner with industry leaders to meet customer product and service requirements and to develop innovative advances in design and technology. Some of our partnerships allow us to supplement internal manufacturing capacity and share the cost of developing next generation technologies. Other partnerships allow us to offer more services and features to our customers. If such arrangements do not develop as expected, our business could be adversely impacted. We rely on third party distributors, representatives and retailers to sell certain of our products. In addition to our own distribution force, we offer our products through a variety of third party distributors, representatives and retailers. Certain of our distributors or representatives may market products that compete with the Companys products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers, could affect the Companys ability to bring its products to market. Our business will be harmed if we are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, or if our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect our proprietary rights. Because our products are comprised of complex technology, we are involved in litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, claims against us alleging that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Also, defending these claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property rights as proprietary and attempt to protect them with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business. As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new areas may not be as developed as in Table of Contents 19 our longer standing businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new markets. Our future operating results may be negatively impacted if we are not successful in licensing our intellectual property. As part of business strategy, primarily in our Mobile Devices business, we strategically license our intellectual property. Our existing intellectual property may not continue to generate sales and operating earnings at current levels and we may not be successful at licensing new intellectual property. Many of our components and products are manufactured by third parties and if third party manufacturers lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third party manufacturers, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third party suppliers for many of the components used in our products and we rely on third party manufacturers to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products. If we are not able to engage such manufacturers with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also have third party arrangements for the design or manufacture of certain products, parts and components. If we are not able to engage such parties with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. There is no guarantee that design wins will become actual orders and sales. A design win occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated with the customers product. There can be delays of several months or more between the design win and when a customer initiates actual orders. The design win may never become an actual order or sale. Further, if the customers plans change, we may commit significant resources to design wins that do not result in actual orders. We have taken, and continue to take, cost reduction actions. Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost reduction actions, in turn, may expose us to additional production risk and have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We have been reducing costs and simplifying our product portfolios in all of our businesses. We have discontinued product lines, exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations, increased manufacturing with third parties and reduced our employee population. The impact of these cost reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by factors including, but not limited to: (1) our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts; (2) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete; (3) delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia; (4) decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees; (5) our ability to retain or recruit key employees; (6) our manufacturing capacity, including capacity from third parties; and (7) the performance of other parties under contract manufacturing arrangements on which we rely for the manufacture of certain products, parts and components. An important cost reduction action has been to reduce the number of our facilities, including manufacturing facilities. All of our businesses have exited certain facilities or consolidated facilities so that our products are manufactured in fewer facilities. While we have business continuity and risk management plans in place in case capacity is significantly reduced or eliminated at a given facility, the reduced number of alternative facilities could cause the period of any manufacturing disruptions to be longer. As a result, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. Table of Contents 20 We may not continue to have access to the capital markets to obtain long term and short term financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded. From time to time we access the long term and short term capital markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that we can continue to access the capital markets in 2007 on acceptable terms and conditions, our access and the availability of acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings; (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets; and (iii) the current state of the economy, including the telecommunications industry. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to the Company. The Companys debt ratings are considered investment grade. If our credit ratings were to decline three levels from the current rating, we would no longer be considered investment grade and our financial flexibility would be reduced and our cost of borrowing would increase. Some of the factors that impact our credit ratings, including the overall economic health of the telecommunications industry, are outside of our control. There can be no assurances that our current credit ratings will continue. Our commercial paper is rated A 1/ P 2/ F 1. Although we continue to issue commercial paper, there can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the commercial paper markets on terms acceptable to the Company. We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility if we are not able to meet the conditions to borrowing in our facility. We view our existing five year revolving domestic credit facility as a source of available liquidity. This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We have never borrowed under this facility or previous domestic revolving credit facilities. However, if we wish to borrow under this facility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (2) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (3) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (4) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (5) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (6) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (7) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (8) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (9) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. In 2006 and early 2007, we made several strategic acquisitions. In January 2007, we acquired Symbol Technologies, Inc. (Symbol). Symbol, which is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Motorola, is being integrated with Motorola and will form the core of Motorolas enterprise mobility business within our Networks and Enterprise segment. As a result of the acquisition, approximately 5,200 employees joined Motorola. In light of the size of this transaction, some of the risks described above may be more significant. Acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on their earnings) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher valuation than Motorola may be dilutive to our earnings, especially when the acquired business has little or no revenue. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near term earnings and have, in the past, foregone certain of these acquisitions. Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of change in control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be difficult to retain certain key employees. Table of Contents 21 The value of our investments in the securities of various companies fluctuates and it may be difficult for us to realize the value of these investments. We hold a portfolio of investments in various companies. Since the majority of these securities represent investments in technology companies, the fair market values of these securities are subject to significant price volatility. In addition, the realizable value of these securities is subject to market and other conditions. We also have invested in numerous privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in startup or developmental stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose all or substantially all of our investments in these companies, and in some cases have. We purchase a large amount of credit insurance to mitigate some of our credit risks. Our ability to sell certain of our receivables could be negatively impacted if we are not able to continue to purchase credit insurance in certain countries and in sufficient quantities. In addition, our success in certain countries may be dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient credit insurance. It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of highly skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive. Competition for key technical personnel in high technology industries is intense. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel needed to compete and develop successful new products. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly skilled personnel. The unfavorable outcome of litigation pending or future litigation could materially impact the Company. Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation. We are subject to a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and or sell are subject to a wide range of global environmental, health and safety laws. Compliance with existing or future environmental, health and safety laws could subject us to future costs, liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to hazardous substances. In the United States, laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or action regardless of fault. Motorola continues to incur disposal cost and has ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to U.S. environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on Motorola. Over the last several years, environmental laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; electronic products and packaging, recycling; and reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products have expanded dramatically. These laws impact our products and make it more expensive to manufacture and sell product. It may also be difficult to comply with the laws in a timely way and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, thereby impacting our sales and profitability. For example, electronic products sold into Europe were required to meet stringent chemical restrictions by July 1, 2006 under the EU RoHS Directive. China is adopting similar requirements, the first of which require labeling and chemical content disclosure for all electronic products sold into or within China after February 28, 2007. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate increased consumer demand for the voluntary reduction or elimination of certain hazardous constituents from our wireless handsets. Table of Contents 22 We may provide financing and financial guarantees to our customers, some of which may be for significant amounts. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to provide long term customer financing to a customer in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services. In some circumstances, these loans can be very large. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources and may also provide financial guarantees on behalf of our customers. Our success, particularly in our infrastructure businesses, may be dependent, in part, upon our ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our customers creditworthiness. We also provide revolving, short term financing to certain customers and distributors that purchase our equipment. Our success may be dependent, in part, on our ability to provide this financing. Our financial results could be negatively impacted if our customers or distributors fail to repay this revolving, short term debt and or our sales to such customers or distributors could be reduced in the event of real or perceived issues about the credit quality of the customer or distributor. When we lend our customers money in connection with the sale of our equipment, we are at risk of not being repaid. While we have generally been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third party lenders, a portion of these financings are supported directly by us. There can be higher risks of default associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start up operations such as local network providers, customers in developing countries, or customers in specific financing intensive areas of the industry (such as 3G wireless operators). Should customers fail to meet their obligations on new or existing loans, losses could be incurred and such losses could negatively impact our financial results. Our large system contracts for infrastructure equipment and the resulting reliance on large customers may negatively impact our business. We are exposed to risks due to large system contracts for infrastructure equipment and the resulting reliance on large customers. These include: (1) the technological risks of such contracts, especially when the contracts involve new technology, and (2) financial risks under these contracts, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large contracts and the related impact on operating results. We are also facing increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated. Political developments can impact the nature and timing of these large contracts. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance we are forced to retain the risk. The Company has many types of insurance coverage and also self insures for some risks and obligations. The insurance market was disrupted after the events of September 11, 2001 and the 2005 hurricanes. While the cost and availability of most insurance has stabilized, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain unavailable. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims and public liability are potential self insured events that could negatively impact our financial performance. Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of the wireless communications industry or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors. Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries throughout the world and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal communications industry may be affected if adequate frequencies are not allocated or, alternatively, if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth has been and may continue to be affected by the cost of new licenses required to use frequencies and any related frequency relocation costs. The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing new wireless communications technologies to be developed and offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network systems, such as WiFi, and wide area network systems, such as WiMAX. Other countries have also deregulated portions of the available spectrum to allow these and other technologies, which can be offered without spectrum license costs. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new opportunities for Motorola and our customers. Table of Contents 23 Changes in government policies and laws or economic conditions may adversely affect our financial results. Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our operations, including in emerging markets in Asia, India, Latin America and Eastern Europe, and in markets subject to ongoing political hostilities and war, including the Middle East. In addition, there are currently few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to, or commerce on, the Internet. We could be adversely affected by any such regulation in any country where we operate. The adoption of such measures could decrease demand for our products and at the same time increase the cost of selling such products. Consolidations in both the cable and telecommunication industries may adversely impact our business. The cable and telecommunication industries have experienced consolidation, and this trend is expected to continue according to industry estimates. Industry consolidation could result in delays of purchases or in the selection of new suppliers by the merged companies to equipment suppliers such as Motorola and our competitors. Due to continuing consolidation within the cable industry worldwide, a small number of operators own a majority of cable television systems and account for a significant portion of the capital spending made by cable television system operators. Net sales to the Connected Home Solutions segments largest customer, Comcast represented approximately 29% of the Connected Home Solutions segments total net sales in 2006. Regulatory changes impacting our cable products may adversely impact our business. Currently, reception of digital television programming from the cable broadband network requires a set top box with certain technology. This security technology has limited the availability of set top boxes to those manufactured by a few cable network manufacturers, including Motorola. The FCC has enacted regulations requiring separation of security functionality from set top boxes to increase competition and encourage the sale of set top boxes in the retail market by July 1, 2007. Traditionally, cable service providers sold or leased the set top box to their customer. If the retail market develops for set top boxes and televisions capable of accepting the security modules, sales of our set top boxes may be negatively impacted. In addition, we risk lost sales if competitors bring set top boxes with separable security to market before we do. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally volatile securities markets, and the volatility in the telecommunications and technology companies securities markets in particular. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to, market expectations of our performance, capital spending plans of our customers, and the level of perceived growth in the industries in which we participate. The level of returns on pension and retirement plan assets could affect our earnings in future periods. The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations we could be Table of Contents 24 required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of required contributions in the future increases. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and changes to the New York Stock Exchange rules, has required us to expend significant resources and incur additional expenses and will continue to do so. We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we will continue to invest necessary resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities. The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties Motorolas principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. Motorola also operates manufacturing facilities and sales offices in other U.S. locations and in many other countries. (See Item 1: Business for information regarding the location of the principal manufacturing facilities for each of Motorolas business segments.) Motorola owns 41 facilities (manufacturing, sales, service and office), 21 of which are located in North America and 20 of which are located in other countries. Motorola leases 295 facilities, 90 of which are located in North America and 205 of which are located in other countries. As compared to 2005, the number of facilities owned or leased, excluding new acquisitions, was reduced primarily because of the optimization of space and workplace mobility programs being utilized instead of adding sites and space. New business acquisitions closed to date have added 21 sites to the Motorola real estate portfolio worldwide. In addition, as part of Motorolas overall strategy to reduce operating costs and improve the financial performance of the corporation, a number of businesses and facilities have either been sold or are currently for sale. During 2006, facilities in Rohnert Park, California and Ichon, Korea and land parcels in Elgin, Illinois and Tempe, Arizona were sold. A facility in Deer Park, Illinois was sold as part of the sale of the automotive electronics business. Sites at Glen Rock, New Jersey and Guangzhou, China and land parcels in Anderson, South Carolina and Tempe, Arizona are currently up for sale. Motorola generally considers the productive capacity of the plants operated by each of its business segments to be adequate and sufficient for the requirements of each business group. The extent of utilization of such manufacturing facilities varies from plant to plant and from time to time during the year. A substantial portion of Motorolas products are manufactured in Asia, primarily China, either in our own facilities or in the facilities of others who manufacture and assemble products for Motorola. If manufacturing in the region was disrupted, Motorolas overall productive capacity could be significantly reduced. Table of Contents 25 Item 3: Legal Proceedings Personal Injury Cases Cases relating to Wireless Telephone Usage On May 26, 2000, a purported nationwide class action suit Naquin, et al., v. Nokia Mobile Phones, et al. was filed against Motorola and several other cellular phone manufacturers and carriers in the Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans, State of Louisiana. The case alleges the failure to incorporate a remote headset into cellular phones rendered the phones defective by exposing users to biological injury and health risks and plaintiffs seek compensatory damages and injunctive relief. Similar state class action suits were filed on April 19, 2001, in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland, Pinney and Colonell v. Nokia, Inc. et al., and in the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, Farina v. Nokia, Inc., et al.; and on April 20, 2001, in the Supreme Court of the Sate of New York, County of Bronx, Gilliam et al., v. Nokia, Inc., et al. During 2001, after removal to federal court, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (MDL Panel) transferred the above four cases to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland (the MDL Court) for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings in the matter called In re Wireless Telephone Radio Frequency Emissions Products Liability Litigation (the MDL Proceeding). The Pinney and Gilliam plaintiffs dismissed these cases without prejudice in April and March 2006, respectively. On November 6, 2006, plaintiffs dismissed the Naquin case without prejudice. In 2005, as a result of a decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, the Farina case was remanded to Pennsylvania state courts from which it was removed. In late 2005 and early 2006, Plaintiffs in Farina amended their complaints to add allegations that cellular telephones sold without headsets are defective because they present a safety risk when used while driving and to seek punitive damages. Farina also seeks declaratory relief and treble and statutory damages. After the Farina complaint was amended, on February 17, 2006, a newly added defendant to the Farina case removed the case to federal court. As of June 15, 2006, the MDL Panel formally transferred the newly removed Farina case to the MDL Court. On November 10, 2006, defendants moved to dismiss Farina and filed a motion for referral to the FCC. On November 10, 2006, plaintiff moved to remand Farina to state court. Plaintiff also filed an alternative motion for suggestion of remand to the transferor court in Philadelphia. All Farina motions are pending before the MDL Court. During 2001 and 2002, several additional cases were filed alleging that use of a cellular phone caused a malignant brain tumor: Murray v. Motorola, Inc., et al., filed November 15, 2001, in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia; Agro et. al., v. Motorola, Inc., et al., filed February 26, 2002, in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia; Cochran et. al., v. Audiovox Corporation, et al., filed February 26, 2002, in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia and Schofield et. al., v. Matsushita Electric Corporation of America, et al., filed February 26, 2002, in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. Each complaint seeks compensatory damages in excess of $25 million, consequential damages in excess of $25 million and punitive and or exemplary damages in excess of $100 million. These cases were removed to federal court and transferred to the MDL Court. On July 19, 2004, the MDL Court found that there was no federal court jurisdiction over Murray, Agro, Cochran and Schofield and remanded those cases to the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. On November 30, 2004, defendants moved to dismiss the Murray, Agro, Cochran and Schofield complaints. That motion remains pending before the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. Brower v. Motorola, Inc., et al., filed April 19, 2001, in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Diego, also seeks relief on behalf of an individual who had brain cancer. A first amended complaint was filed in Brower to add class allegations that defendants engaged in deceptive and misleading actions by falsely stating that cellular phones are safe and by failing to disclose studies that allegedly show cellular phones can cause harm. Brower seeks injunctive relief, restitution, compensatory and punitive damages and disgorgement of profits. On September 9, 2002, Dahlgren v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed in the D.C. Superior Court containing class claims similar to Brower. Dahlgren seeks injunctive and equitable relief, actual damages, treble or statutory damages, punitive damages and a constructive trust. These two cases were also removed to federal court and transferred to the MDL Court. On June 10, 2005, the Dahlgren case was remanded to the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. On December 9, 2005, plaintiff filed an amended complaint in Dahlgren. Defendants moved to dismiss Dahlgren on February 3, 2006. That motion is still pending. On February 15, 2006, the MDL Court remanded Brower to California state court. The California state court set a deadline of January 19, 2007, for the filing of an amended complaint. To date, no amended complaint has been filed. Table of Contents 26 Iridium Related Cases Class Action Securities Lawsuits Motorola has been named as one of several defendants in putative class action securities lawsuits arising out of alleged misrepresentations or omissions regarding the Iridium satellite communications business, which on March 15, 2001, were consolidated in the federal district court in the District of Columbia under Freeland v. Iridium World Communications, Inc., et al., originally filed on April 22, 1999. Plaintiffs motion for class certification was granted on January 9, 2006 and the trial is scheduled to begin on May 22, 2008. Bankruptcy Court Lawsuit Motorola was sued by the Official Committee of the Unsecured Creditors of Iridium in the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York on July 19, 2001. In re Iridium Operating LLC, et al. v. Motorola asserts claims for breach of contract, warranty, fiduciary duty and fraudulent transfer and preferences, and seeks in excess of $4 billion in damages. Trial began on the solvency portion of these claims on October 23, 2006. On March 30, 2001, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York presiding over the Iridium bankruptcy proceeding approved a settlement between the unsecured creditors of the Iridium Debtors and the Iridium Debtors pre petition secured lenders. The settlement agreement creates and provides for the funding of a litigation vehicle for the purpose of pursuing litigation against Motorola. Motorola appealed the approval of the settlement to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On April 7, 2005, the District Court entered an order denying Motorolas appeal and affirming the settlement. On May 4, 2005, Motorola filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The appeal is fully briefed and argued and remains pending. Iridium India Lawsuits Motorola and certain of its current and former officers and directors were named as defendants in a private criminal complaint filed by Iridium India Telecom Ltd. (Iridium India) in October 2001 in the Court of the Extra Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Khadki, Pune, India. The Iridium India Telecom Ltd. v. Motorola, Inc. et al. complaint alleges that the defendants conspired to, and did, commit the criminal offense of cheating by fraudulently inducing Iridium India to purchase gateway equipment from Motorola, to acquire Iridium stock, and to invest in developing a market for Iridium services in India. Under the Indian penal code, cheating is punishable by imprisonment for up to 7 years and a fine of any amount. The court may also require defendants to compensate the victim for its losses, which the complaint estimates at about $100 million. In August 2003, the Bombay High Court granted Motorolas petition to dismiss the criminal action against Motorola and the individual defendants. Iridium India has petitioned the Indian Supreme Court to exercise its discretion to review that dismissal, and that petition is pending. In September 2002, Iridium India also filed a civil suit in the Bombay High Court against Motorola and Iridium. The suit alleges fraud, intentional misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation by Motorola and Iridium in inducing Iridium India to purchase gateway equipment from Motorola, to acquire Iridium stock, and to invest in developing a market for Iridium services in India. Iridium India claims in excess of $200 million in damages and interest. Following extensive proceedings in the trial court and on appeal related to Iridium Indias motion for interim relief, Motorola has deposited approximately $44 million in a specially designated account in India, and the Indian Supreme Court has accepted for a full hearing at a later date Motorolas appeal regarding interim relief. Shareholder Derivative Case Iridium and Telsim M&C Partners III v. Galvin, et al., filed January 10, 2002, in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, is a shareholder derivative action against fifteen current and former members of the Motorola Board of Directors and Motorola as a nominal defendant. The lawsuit alleges that the Motorola directors breached their fiduciary duty to the Company and or committed gross mismanagement of Motorolas business and assets by allowing Motorola to engage in improper practices with respect to Iridium and Telsim (as defined below). In April 2006, the Court held that the plaintiff could not pursue its Iridium related claims, but denied without prejudice plaintiffs motion to file a Third Amended Complaint with respect to new allegations pertaining to Telsim. Following the Courts ruling for defendants on the Iridium related claims and plaintiffs July 20, 2006 demand with respect to Telsim related claims, the Motorola Board of Directors appointed an investigatory committee to investigate those Telsim related claims. Table of Contents 27 An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the Iridium related cases still pending could have a material adverse effect on Motorolas consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Telsim Related Cases In April 2001, Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A.S. (Telsim), a wireless telephone operator in Turkey, defaulted on the payment of approximately $2 billion of loans owed to Motorola and its subsidiaries (the Telsim Loans). Motorola fully reserved the carrying value of the Telsim Loans in the second quarter of 2002. The Uzan family controlled Telsim until 2004 when an agency of the Turkish government took over control of Telsim. Telsim was sold by the Turkish government to Vodafone in 2006. Motorola received payment from the sale, pursuant to the settlement described below. Motorola is involved in several matters related to Telsim. October 2005 Settlement In 2005, Motorola signed an agreement resolving its disputes regarding the Telsim Loans with Telsim and the Government of Turkey (the Telsim Dispute Agreement). Under the Telsim Dispute Agreement, Motorola was paid $410 million on May 24, 2006 (in addition to the $500 million Motorola received pursuant to the Telsim Dispute Agreement in 2005) upon Vodafones completion of its acquisition of Telsim as final payment. Motorola also agreed that it will not pursue collection efforts against the three corporate defendants under TMSF control (Unikom Iletisim Hizmetleri Pazarlama A.S., Standart Pazarlama A.S., and Standart Telekomunikasyon Bilgisayar Hizmetleri A.S.) (the Corporate Defendants), that are subject to its final judgment in the U.S. courts related to the matter. The Telsim Dispute Agreement permits Motorola to continue its efforts (except in Turkey and three other countries, which restriction is subject to certain conditions) to enforce the U.S. Judgment described below against the Uzan family. In addition, pursuant to the Telsim Dispute Agreement, Telsim and its related companies have dismissed all litigation, including arbitrations, pending against Motorola. U.S. Judgment The Company continues its efforts to collect on its judgment of $2.13 billion (the U.S. Judgment) for compensatory damages rendered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the District Court) against the Uzans on July 31, 2003 and affirmed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the Second Circuit) in 2004 and in connection with foreign proceedings against the Uzan family. However, the Company believes that the ongoing litigation, collection and or settlement processes against the Uzan family will be very lengthy in light of the Uzans continued resistance to satisfy the judgment against them and their decision to violate various courts orders, including orders holding them in contempt of court. Following a remand from the Second Circuit of the U.S. Judgment by the District Court, on February 8, 2006, the District Court awarded a judgment in favor of Motorola for $1 billion in punitive damages against the Uzan family and their co conspirator, Antonio Luna Bettancourt. The defendants have appealed this judgment to the Second Circuit. Class Action Securities Lawsuits A purported class action lawsuit, Barry Family LP v. Carl F. Koenemann, was filed against the former chief financial officer of Motorola on December 24, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b 5. In 2003, it was consolidated with a number of related cases as In re Motorola Securities Litigation in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (the Illinois District Court). The plaintiffs allege that the price of Motorolas stock was artificially inflated by a failure to disclose vendor financing to Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A.S. (Telsim), in connection with the sale of telecommunications equipment by Motorola as well as other related aspects of Motorolas dealings with Telsim. On August 25, 2004, the Illinois District Court issued its decision on Motorolas motion to dismiss, granting the motion in part and denying it in part. The court dismissed without prejudice the fraud claims against the individual defendants and denied the motion to dismiss as to Motorola. The plaintiffs chose not to file an amended complaint; therefore, the fraud claims against the individual defendants are dismissed. The court, however, declined to dismiss the plaintiffs claims that the individual defendants were controlling persons of Motorola. During 2005, the court certified the case as a class action. The case is scheduled for trial beginning April 16, 2007. A purported class action, Howell v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against Motorola and various of its directors, officers and employees in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on July 21, 2003, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act Table of Contents 28 (ERISA). The complaint alleged that the defendants had improperly permitted participants in the Motorola 401(k) Plan (the Plan) to purchase or hold shares of common stock of Motorola because the price of Motorolas stock was artificially inflated by a failure to disclose vendor financing to Telsim in connection with the sale of telecommunications equipment by Motorola. The plaintiff sought to represent a class of participants in the Plan for whose individual accounts the Plan purchased or held shares of common stock of Motorola from May 16, 2000 to the present, and sought an unspecified amount of damages. On September 30, 2005, the district court dismissed the second amended complaint filed on October 15, 2004 (the Howell Complaint). Plaintiff filed an appeal to the dismissal on October 27, 2005. In addition, on October 19, 2005, plaintiffs counsel filed a motion seeking to add a new lead plaintiff and assert the same claims set forth in the Howell Complaint (the October 19th Motion). On August 11, 2006, the district court denied the October 19th Motion, finding the second purported plaintiff lacked standing to sue. Plaintiff filed an appeal. On November 20, 2006, the appeals court dismissed the second appeal. Three new purported lead plaintiffs have since intervened in the case, and have filed a motion for class certification seeking to represent Plan participants for whose individual accounts the Plan purchased and or held shares of Motorola common stock from May 16, 2000 through December 31, 2002. Securities and Exchange Commission Investigation Motorola was involved in an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regarding Telsim matters. On February 5, 2007, the investigation was terminated by the SEC and the Company was notified that no enforcement action was recommended by the SEC. Charter Communications Class Action Securities Litigation On August 5, 2002, Stoneridge Investment Partners LLC filed a purported class action in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri (District Court) against Charter Communications, Inc. (Charter) and certain of its officers, alleging violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder relating to Charter securities. This complaint did not name Motorola as a defendant, but asserted that Charter and the other named defendants had violated the securities laws in connection with, inter alia, a transaction with Motorola. On August 5, 2003, the plaintiff amended its complaint to add Motorola, Inc. as a defendant. As to Motorola, the amended complaint alleges a claim under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5(a) (c) promulgated thereunder relating to Charter securities and seeks an award of compensatory damages. The District Court issued a final judgment dismissing Motorola from the case which plaintiff appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit (Court of Appeals). On April 11, 2006, the Court of Appeals affirmed the final judgment of the District Court dismissing Motorola from the case. On July 7, 2006 plaintiff filed a petition for certiorari seeking review of the Court of Appeals decision by the United States Supreme Court. On October 20, 2006, Motorola submitted its response opposing the petition. In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation On December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in two cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation (the Adelphia MDL). The Adelphia MDL consists of at least fourteen individual cases and one purported class action that were filed in or have been transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. First, Motorola was named as a defendant in the Second Amended Complaint in the individual case of W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. v. Deloitte & Touche LLP, et al. (the Huff Complaint) This case was originally filed by W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. on June 7, 2002, in the United States District Court for the Western District of New York and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as related to the Adelphia MDL. Several other individual and corporate defendants are also named in the amended complaint along with Motorola. As to Motorola, the complaint alleges a claim arising under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder relating to Adelphia securities, and seeks recovery of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia debt securities, compensatory damages, costs and expenses of litigation and other relief. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss this complaint on March 8, 2004, which is awaiting decision. Also on December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in Stocke v. John J. Rigas, et al. This case was originally filed in Pennsylvania and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as related to the Adelphia MDL. Several other individual and corporate defendants are also named in the amended complaint along with Motorola. As to Motorola, the complaint generally makes the same allegations as the Huff Complaint and a state law claim of aiding and abetting fraud relating to Adelphia securities. The complaint seeks Table of Contents 29 return of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia securities, punitive damages and other relief. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss this complaint on April 12, 2004 which is awaiting decision. On July 23, 2004, Motorola was named as a defendant in Argent Classic Convertible Arbitrage Fund L.P., et al. v. Scientific Atlanta, Inc., et al. (the Argent Complaint). The Argent Complaint was filed against Scientific Atlanta and Motorola in the Southern District of New York. The Argent Complaint generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have been transferred to the Southern District of New York. The complaint seeks compensatory damages and other relief. On October 12, 2004, Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the Argent Complaint which is awaiting decision. On September 14, 2004, Motorola was named in a complaint filed in state court in Los Angeles, California, naming Motorola and Scientific Atlanta and certain officers of Scientific Atlanta, Los Angeles County Employees Retirement Association et al. v. Motorola, Inc., et al. The complaint raises claims under California law for aiding and abetting fraud and conspiracy to defraud and generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have been transferred to the Southern District of New York. There are no new substantive allegations. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, opportunity cost damages, punitive and other exemplary damages and other relief. In late 2004, the Multi District Litigation Panel transferred the case to federal court in New York, which transfer is now final. On September 19, 2005, Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in this action which is awaiting decision. On October 25, 2004, Motorola was named in a complaint filed in state court in Fulton County, Georgia, naming Motorola and Scientific Atlanta and certain officers of Scientific Atlanta, AIG DKR SoundShore Holdings, Ltd., et al. v. Scientific Atlanta Inc., et al. The complaint raises claims under Georgia law of conspiracy to defraud and generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have already been filed and transferred to the Southern District of New York. The complaint seeks damages and statutory compensation, punitive damages and other relief. On April 18, 2005, the Multi District Litigation Panel issued a final order transferring the case to New York and that transfer is final. On September 19, 2005, Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in this action which is awaiting decision. Adelphia Communications Corp. Related Cases Bankruptcy Court Lawsuit On June 23, 2006, Adelphia objected to Motorolas claim for payment of $67 million and asserted causes of action against Motorola including preferences, avoidance of liens, fraudulent transfers, equitable subordination and aiding and abetting fraud as part of the ongoing Adelphia bankruptcy action in the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Plaintiff is alleging damages in excess of $1 billion against Motorola for the above stated causes of action. Securities and Exchange Commission Investigation Motorola is involved in an ongoing investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding Adelphia matters, which remains outstanding. However, the Company has reached a settlement agreement with the staff of the Northeast Regional office of the SEC that is subject to final approval of the Commission. Motorola is a defendant in various other suits, claims and investigations that arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, and other than discussed above with respect to the Iridium cases, the ultimate disposition of the Companys pending legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Table of Contents 30 Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Following are the persons who were the executive officers of Motorola as of February 28, 2007, their ages as of January 1, 2007, their current titles and positions they have held during the last five years: Edward J. Zander; age 59; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 2004; Managing Director of Silver Lake Partners from July 2003 to December 2003; President and COO of Sun Microsystems, Inc. from January 1998 until June 2002. Gregory Q. Brown; age 46; Executive Vice President, President, Networks and Enterprise since January 2005; Executive Vice President and President, Commercial, Government and Industrial Solutions Sector from January 2003 to January 2005; Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Micromuse, Inc. from February 1999 to December 2002. David W. Devonshire; age 61; Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since April 2002; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ingersoll Rand Company from January 2000 to January 2002. Ruth A. Fattori; age 54; Executive Vice President, Human Resources since November 2004; Senior Vice President, JP Morgan Chase & Co., from April 2003 to November 2004; Executive Vice President, Process and Productivity, Conseco, Inc. from January 2001 to December 2002; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Siemens Corporation from October 1999 to January 2001. Kenneth C. Keller, Jr.; age 45; Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer since October 2006; Global Leader, Infant Nutrition, HJ Heinz Company from July 2006 October 2006; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Heinz Italy from June 2004 to June 2006; Chief Growth Officer of HJ Heinz Company from January 2003 to May 2004; Managing Director (US) and Global Leader Ketchup, Condiments and Sauces, HJ Heinz Company from January 2000 to December 2003. A. Peter Lawson; age 60; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 1998. Daniel M. Moloney; age 47; Executive Vice President, President, Connected Home Solutions since January 2005; Executive Vice President and President, Broadband Communications Sector (BCS) from June 2002 to January 2005; Senior Vice President and General Manager, IP Systems Group, BCS from February 2000 to June 2002. Patricia B. Morrison; age 47; Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer since February 2007; Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer since July 2005; Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer of Office Depot, Inc. from January 2002 to April 2005. Richard N. Nottenburg; age 52; Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer since March 2005; Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer from July 2004 to March 2005; Strategic Advisor to Motorola, Inc. February 2004 to July 2004; Vice President and General Manager of Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation from August 2003 to January 2004; Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Multilink from January 1995 to August 2003. Stuart C. Reed; age 45; Executive Vice President, Chief Supply Chain Officer since February 2006; Senior Vice President, Chief Supply Chain Officer from April 2005 to February 2006; Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing and Engineering, Integrated Supply Chain, IBM Corporation (IBM) from January 2005 to April 2005; Vice President, Systems, Storage and Software Products, IBM from August 2004 to January 2005; Vice President, Systems and Storage, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations, IBM from January 2003 to August 2004; Vice President, Strategy, Process and Systems, IBM from January 2002 to January 2003; Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain, IBM from June 1999 to January 2002. Padmasree Warrior; age 46; Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer since March 2005; Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer from January 2003 to March 2005; Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Energy Systems Group, Integrated Electronic Systems Sector from April 2002 to January 2003; Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Thoughtbeam, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Motorola, Inc., from October 2001 to April 2002. The above executive officers will serve as executive officers of Motorola until the regular meeting of the Board of Directors in May 2007 or until their respective successors shall have been elected. There is no family relationship between any of the executive officers listed above. Table of Contents 31 PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Motorolas common stock is listed on the New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges. The number of stockholders of record of Motorola common stock on January 31, 2007 was 75,892. The remainder of the response to this Item incorporates by reference Note 16, Quarterly and Other Financial Data (unaudited) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing under 
 
