Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item A: Risk Factors of this document. Available Information We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorola.com/investor, our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Table of Contents 17 Commission (SEC). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SECs website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents: Motorola, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation Motorola, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws Motorola, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines Motorola, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola, Inc. Board of Directors Motorola Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola employees, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer) Audit and Legal Committee Charter Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter Governance and Nominating Committee Charter All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E mail: investors@motorola.com, phone: 1 800 262 8509. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Table of Contents 18 Item 1A: Risk Factors We wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this report or our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. We operate in highly competitive markets and our financial results will be affected if we are not able to compete effectively. The markets for our products are highly competitive with respect to, among other factors: pricing, product features, product and service quality, and the time required to introduce new products and services. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, or may offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer. We can give no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products and upgrades of current products to comply with emerging industry standards and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our competitors. The research and development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted or are not commercially viable. In addition, our products may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment. If our products are not competitive or do not work properly, our business will suffer. Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products, such as: advanced wireless handsets; WiMAX; 4G technologies for wireless broadband networks; products for transmission of telephony and high speed data over hybrid fiber coaxial cable systems; integrated digital radios; and integrated public safety systems. These risks include: (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products; (ii) customer acceptance of products; (iii) the development of, approval and compliance with industry standards; (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technology; and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets. Our success, in part, will be affected by our ability to successfully compete in the ever evolving markets in which we participate. We face intense competition in these markets from both established companies and new entrants. Product life cycles can be short and new products are expensive to develop and bring to market. Our evaluation of structural and strategic realignment alternatives for our businesses may have an adverse effect on business operations and our assets. In January 2008, we announced that we are evaluating alternatives for the structural and strategic realignment of our businesses. This may include the separation of the Mobile Devices business from our other businesses. We have not determined all structural and strategic alternatives that may be available to us, whether we will elect to pursue any such strategic alternatives, or what impact any particular strategic alternative will have on our business operations or stock price if pursued. There are various uncertainties and risks relating to our exploration of structural and strategic alternatives that could have an adverse effect on our business operations or assets, including: (i) exploration of structural and strategic alternatives may distract management and disrupt operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; (ii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in increased difficulties in recruiting and retaining employees, particularly highly qualified employees; (iii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers, suppliers, vendors and partners and may result in the loss of business opportunities; (iv) the process of exploring strategic alternatives may be time consuming and expensive and may result in the loss of business opportunities; and (v) we may not be able to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative undertaken by us. Table of Contents 19 We have taken, and continue to take, cost reduction actions. Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost reduction actions, in turn, may expose us to additional production risk and have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We have been reducing costs and simplifying our product portfolios in all of our businesses. We have discontinued product lines, exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations, increased manufacturing with third parties and reduced our employee population. The impact of these cost reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by factors including, but not limited to: (i) our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts; (ii) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete; (iii) delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia; (iv) decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees; (v) our ability to retain or recruit key employees; (vi) the adequacy of our manufacturing capacity, including capacity provided by third parties; and (vii) the performance of other parties under contract manufacturing arrangements on which we rely for the manufacture of certain products, parts and components. All of our businesses have consolidated or exited certain facilities and our products are now manufactured in fewer facilities than in the past. While we have business continuity and risk management plans in place in case capacity is significantly reduced or eliminated at a given facility, the reduced number of alternative facilities could cause the duration of any manufacturing disruption to be longer. As a result, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. The demand for our products depends on the continued growth of the industries in which we participate. A market decline in any one of these industries could have an adverse effect on our business. The rate at which the portions of the telecommunications industry in which we participate continue to grow is critical to our ability to improve our overall financial performance and we could be negatively impacted by a slowdown. Our business was very negatively impacted by the economic slowdown and the corresponding reduction in capital spending by the telecommunications industry from 2001 to 2003. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and approximately half of our net sales are made to customers outside the U.S. In addition, we have many manufacturing, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and more than half of our employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our suppliers are outside the U.S. and most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. As with all companies that have sizeable sales and operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to: (i) tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs classifications and certifications, including but not limited to changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to such classifications and certifications; (ii) changes in U.S. and non U.S. rules related to trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards consumer protection; (iii) longer payment cycles; (iv) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., and difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner; (v) currency fluctuations, particularly in the Euro, Chinese renminbi and Brazilian real; (vi) foreign exchange regulations, which may limit the Companys ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency; (vii) challenges in collecting accounts receivable; (viii) cultural and language differences; (ix) employment regulations and local labor conditions; (x) difficulties protecting IP in foreign countries; (xi) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; (xii) natural disasters; (xiii) public health issues or outbreaks; (xiv) changes in laws or regulations that adversely impact benefits being received by the Company; and (xv) the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. Many of our products that are manufactured outside the U.S. are manufactured in Asia. In particular, we have sizeable operations in China, including manufacturing operations, and 7% of our net sales are to customers in China. The legal system in China is still developing and is subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in China could be adversely impacted by changes to or interpretation of Chinese law. Further, if manufacturing in the region is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. Table of Contents 20 We also are increasing our presence and or selling more of our products in emerging markets such as India and Russia. We face challenges in emerging markets, including creating demand for our products and the negative impact of changes in the laws, or the interpretation of the laws, in those countries. Changes in our development activities, operations or sales in non U.S. markets could result in lost benefits and increase our cost of doing business. The Company has entered into various agreements with non U.S. governments, agencies, or similar organizations under which the Company receives certain benefits relating to its development activities, operations and or sales in the jurisdiction. If the Companys circumstances change or development activities, sales or operations are not at levels originally anticipated, the Company may be at risk of losing some or all of these benefits and increasing our cost of doing business. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be adversely affected. Occasionally, some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our customers, distributors or end users, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such pre shipment and post shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer imposed penalties on Motorola for failure to meet contractual requirements, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation. In some cases, if the quality issue affects the products safety or regulatory compliance, then such a defective product may need to be recalled. Depending on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the field, it can cause the Company to incur substantial recall costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders, and the damage to the Companys goodwill or brand/reputation. In addition, the Company may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that the Company receives from the contracts. Recalls involving regulatory agencies can also result in fines and additional costs. Finally, recalls can result in third party litigation, including class action litigation by persons alleging common harm resulting from the purchase of the products. If the volume of our sales decrease or do not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs that may make our products less competitive. We have negotiated favorable pricing terms with many of our suppliers, some of which have volume based pricing. In the case of volume based pricing arrangements, we may experience higher than anticipated costs if current volume based purchase projections are not met. Some contracts have minimum purchase commitments and we may incur large financial penalties if these commitments are not met. We also may have unused production capacity if our current volume projections are not met, increasing our cost of production. In the future, as we establish new pricing terms, our volume demand could adversely impact future pricing from suppliers. All of these outcomes may result in our products being more costly to manufacture and less competitive. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions makes budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce demand for our products. Current conditions in the domestic and global economies are uncertain. The U.S. involvement in Iraq and other global conflicts, including in the Middle East, as well as public health issues, have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted the global economy. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth for the world economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth in various parts of the world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures difficult. We have sizable manufacturing operations and engineering resources in Israel that could be disrupted as a result of hostilities in the region. We also sell our products and services throughout the Middle East and demand for our products and services could be adversely impacted by hostilities. Table of Contents 21 The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies will have a significant impact on our overall performance. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts and public health issues has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components to meet the demands of our customers. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. We have experienced shortages in the past that have adversely affected our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Furthermore, certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to form successful strategic alliances. If these arrangements do not develop as expected, our business may be adversely impacted. We currently partner with industry leaders to meet customer product and service requirements and to develop innovative advances in design and technology. Some of our partnerships allow us to supplement internal manufacturing capacity and share the cost of developing next generation technologies. Other partnerships allow us to offer more services and features to our customers. If such arrangements do not develop as expected, our business could be adversely impacted. We rely on third party distributors, representatives and retailers to sell certain of our products. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third party distributors, representatives and retailers. Certain of our distributors or representatives may also market other products that compete with our products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers, could affect our ability to bring its products to market. We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights. Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers and or our suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, (ii) if the intellectual property indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover damages and losses due to infringement of third party intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) if we are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities to our customers, or (iv) if our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect our proprietary rights. Because our products are comprised of complex technology, much of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or impacted by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our customers and suppliers. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or supplier are subject to a final injunction. We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations or that a suppliers indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by Motorola and our customers due to the infringing products or that a supplier may choose to accept a license or modify or replace its products with non infringing products which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, Motorola may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any ultimate resolution or outcome that may adversely impact Motorolas sales if a court enters an injunction that enjoins the suppliers products or if the International Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks Motorola products from importation into the U.S. Table of Contents 22 In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from intellectual property litigation against them. Because our customers often derive much larger revenue streams by reselling or leasing our products than we generate from the same products, these indemnity claims by our customers have the potential to expose us to damages that are much higher than we would be exposed to if we were sued directly. Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property rights as proprietary and attempt to protect them with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business. As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new areas may not be as developed as in our longer standing businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new markets. Our future operating results may be negatively impacted if we are not successful in licensing our intellectual property. As part of the business strategy of some of our business segments, primarily our Mobile Devices business, we generate revenue through the licensing of intellectual property rights. The licensed rights include those that are essential to telecommunications standards, such as the GSM standard. Previously agreed upon terms of some of our long standing license agreements and the aging of our essential patent portfolio have reduced our royalty revenue over the past several years and are likely to continue to reduce that revenue. Uncertainty in the legal environment makes it difficult to assure that we will be able to enter into new license agreements that will be sufficient to offset that reduction in our revenue. Many of our components and products are designed or manufactured by third parties and if third party manufacturers lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third party manufacturers, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third party suppliers for many of the components used in our products and we rely on third party manufacturers to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products. If we are not able to engage such manufacturers with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also have third party arrangements for the design or manufacture of certain products, parts and components. If we are not able to engage such parties with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. There is no guarantee that design wins will become actual orders and sales. A design win occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated with the customers product. There can be delays of several months or more between the design win and when a customer initiates actual orders. The design win may never become an actual order or sale. Further, if the customers plans change, we may commit significant resources to design wins that do not result in actual orders. If design wins do not result in actual sales, our business could be adversely affected. We may not continue to have access to the capital markets to obtain long term and short term financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded. From time to time we access the long term and short term capital markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that we can continue to access the capital markets in 2008 on acceptable terms and conditions, our access and the availability of acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings, which have been lowered in 2007 and 2008; (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets, which has Table of Contents 23 been negatively impacted by the U.S. sub prime mortgage situation; and (iii) the current state of the economy, including the telecommunications industry. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. Our debt ratings are considered investment grade. If our credit ratings were to decline two levels from the current Fitch and SP ratings, the Companys long term debt would no longer be considered investment grade and our financial flexibility would be reduced and our cost of borrowing would increase. Some of the factors that impact our credit ratings, including the overall economic health of the telecommunications industry and the U.S. economy, are outside of our control. There can be no assurances that our current credit ratings will continue. Our commercial paper is rated A 2/P 2/F 2. Our A 2 and F 2 ratings include a watch negative. Although we currently have access to the commercial paper markets, there can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the commercial paper markets on terms acceptable to us. We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility if we are not able to meet the conditions to borrowing in our facility. We view our existing five year revolving domestic credit facility as a source of available liquidity. This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We have never borrowed under this facility or previous domestic revolving credit facilities. However, if we wish to borrow under this facility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (iii) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (iv) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (v) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (vi) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (vii) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (viii) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (ix) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. Acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on their earnings) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher valuation than Motorola may be dilutive to our earnings, especially when the acquired business has little or no revenue. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near term earnings and have, in the past, foregone certain of these acquisitions. Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of change in control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be difficult to retain certain key employees. Our future operating results may be negatively impacted if we do not execute a successful silicon and software strategy for our Mobile Devices business. As part of our ongoing effort to improve the product portfolio of our Mobile Devices business, we are in the process of transitioning our silicon and software platforms to lower our cost to produce devices and to enable richer consumer experiences. Failure to execute this transition in a timely and effective manner may cause us to be competitively disadvantaged in many areas, including but not limited to, cost, time to market and the ability to ramp up production in a timely fashion with acceptable quality and improved/additional features. Table of Contents 24 The value of our investments in the securities of various companies fluctuates and it may be difficult for us to realize the value of these investments. We hold a portfolio of investments in various companies. Since the majority of these securities represent investments in technology companies, the fair market values of these securities are subject to significant price volatility. In addition, the realizable value of these securities is subject to market and other conditions. We also have invested in numerous privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in startup or developmental stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose all or substantially all of the value of our investments in these companies, and in some cases have. The Sigma Fund, an investment fund owned by the Company, holds U.S. Dollar denominated debt obligations which include corporate bonds and asset and mortgage backed securities. The fair value of these holdings may experience temporary or other than temporary declines due to the widening credit spreads in several debt market segments and impairment if the underlying debtor should default on its obligations. If we are unable to purchase sufficient credit insurance, our business may be negatively impacted. We purchase a large amount of credit insurance to mitigate some of our credit risks. Our ability to sell certain of our receivables could be negatively impacted if we are not able to continue to purchase credit insurance in certain countries and in sufficient quantities. In addition, our success in certain countries may be dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient credit insurance. It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of highly skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive. Competition for key technical personnel in high technology industries is intense. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel needed to compete and develop successful new products. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly skilled personnel. In particular, we may have more difficulty attracting or retaining highly skilled personnel during periods of poor operating performance. The unfavorable outcome of litigation pending or future litigation could materially impact the Company. Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and or sell are subject to a wide range of global laws. Compliance with existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to hazardous substances. In the United States, laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or action regardless of fault. Motorola continues to incur disposal costs and has ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to U.S. environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on Motorola. Over the last several years, laws focused on: the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; and reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products have expanded significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, sound levels of music playing devices, and other aspects are also proliferating. These laws impact our products and make it more expensive to manufacture and sell product. It may also be difficult to comply with the laws in a timely way and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, thereby impacting our sales and profitability. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain hazardous constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Table of Contents 25 We may provide financing and financial guarantees to our customers, some of which may be for significant amounts. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to provide long term customer financing to a customer in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services. In some circumstances, these loans, leases and extended payment terms can be very large. We also provide revolving, short term financing to certain customers and distributors that purchase our equipment. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources and may also provide financial guarantees on behalf of our customers. Our success, particularly in our infrastructure businesses, may be dependent, in part, upon our ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our customers creditworthiness. While we have generally been able to place a portion of our customer financings with third party lenders, a portion of these financings are supported directly by us. There can be higher risks of default associated with some of these financings, particularly when provided to start up operations such as local network providers, customers in developing countries, or customers in specific financing intensive areas of the industry (such as 3G wireless operators). Should customers fail to meet their obligations on new or existing loans, losses could be incurred and such losses could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, our sales to such customers or distributors could be reduced in the event of real or perceived issues about the credit quality of the customer or distributor. We are exposed to risks under large multi year system contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large multi year system contracts with large customers. This exposes us to risks, including: (i) the technological risks of such contracts, especially when the contracts involve new technology, and (ii) financial risks under these contracts, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large contracts and the related impact on operating results. We are also facing increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated. Political developments also can impact the nature and timing of these large contracts. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance we are forced to retain the risk. The Company has many types of insurance coverage and also self insures for some risks and obligations. The insurance market was disrupted after the events of September 11, 2001 and the 2005 hurricanes. While the cost and availability of most insurance has stabilized, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain unavailable. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims and public liability are potential self insured events that could negatively impact our financial performance. Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of the wireless communications industry or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors. Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal communications industry may be affected: (i) by regulations relating to the access to allocated spectrum for wireless communication users, especially in urban areas, (ii) if adequate frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth has been and may continue to be affected by the cost of new licenses required to use frequencies and any related frequency relocation costs. The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing new wireless communications technologies to be developed and offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network systems, such as WiFi, mesh technologies and wide area network systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other technologies, which can be offered without spectrum license costs. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new opportunities for Motorola and our customers. Changes in government policies and laws or economic conditions may adversely affect our financial results. Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our operations, including in emerging markets in Asia, India, Latin America and Eastern Europe, and in markets subject to ongoing political hostilities and war, including the Middle East. Table of Contents 26 In addition, the laws and regulations that apply directly to access to, or commerce on, the Internet are still evolving. We could be adversely affected by any such regulation in any country where we operate. The adoption of such measures could decrease demand for our products and at the same time increase the cost of selling such products. Consolidations in both the cable and telecommunication industries may adversely impact our business. The cable and telecommunication industries have experienced consolidation and this trend is expected to continue according to industry estimates. Industry consolidation could result in delays of purchases or in the selection of new suppliers by the merged companies. This could adversely effect equipment suppliers like Motorola and our competitors. Due to continuing consolidation within the cable and telecommunications industries worldwide, a small number of operators own a majority of cable television systems and account for a significant portion of the capital spending made by cable telecommunications systems operators. Recent FCC regulations requiring separation of security functionality from set tops could negatively impact our sales of set tops. Historically, reception of digital television programming from a cable broadband network has required a set top with security technology. As a result, sourcing of these set tops was traditionally limited to a few cable network manufacturers, including Motorola. FCC regulations requiring separation of security functionality from set tops that are aimed to increase competition and encourage the sale of set tops in the retail market became effective for most customers on July 1, 2007. Traditionally, cable service providers sold or leased the set top to their customer. As the retail market develops for set tops and televisions capable of accepting the security modules, sales of our set tops may be negatively impacted. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks some of which are within Motorola and some are outsourced. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally volatile securities markets, and the volatility in the telecommunications and technology companies securities markets in particular. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to, market expectations of our performance, capital spending plans of our customers, and the level of perceived growth in the industries in which we participate. The level of returns on pension and retirement plan assets could affect our earnings in future periods. The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations we could be required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of required contributions in the future increases. The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS could impact our financial results. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to Table of Contents 27 determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. We face risks related to ongoing patent related disputes between Qualcomm and Broadcom. Motorola is a purchaser of CDMA EV DO baseband processor chips and chipsets from Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm), and we recently announced an intention to design certain of Qualcomms W CDMA chipsets into certain of our 3G handsets. Qualcomm and Broadcom Corporation (Broadcom) are engaged in several patent related legal actions. In certain of these actions, Broadcom is seeking orders to ban the importation into the U.S. of Qualcomms infringing EV DO and W CDMA baseband processor chipsets and certain downstream products that contain them (including Motorola handsets) and or limit Qualcomms ability to provide certain services and products in the U.S. relating to such infringing chipsets. A final outcome adverse to Qualcomm in any of the patent related legal actions could have a material adverse impact on Motorolas performance by making it difficult, more expensive or impossible for Motorola to make and or import products destined for the U.S. market that use certain infringing Qualcomm chipsets. While we continue to work with Qualcomm and others on contingency plans relating to these cases, there is no guarantee that such plans will prove successful or avoid further legal challenge. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties Motorolas principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. Motorola also operates manufacturing facilities and sales offices in other U.S. locations and in many other countries. (See Item 1: Business for information regarding the location of the principal manufacturing facilities for each of Motorolas business segments.) Motorola owns 43 facilities (manufacturing, sales, service and office), 26 of which are located in Americas Region (USA, Canada, Mexico and Latin America) and 17 of which are located in other countries. Motorola leases 313 facilities, 122 of which are located in Americas Region and 191 of which are located in other countries. During 2007, facilities in: Guangzhou, China; Cork, Ireland; Arlington Heights, Illinois (Ridge Buildings); and a land parcel in Anderson, South Carolina were sold. Sites at Beijing, China; Flensburg, Germany; Glen Rock, New Jersey; Champaign, Illinois; and Chandler, Arizona, are currently for sale. Motorola generally considers the productive capacity of the plants operated by each of its business segments to be adequate and sufficient for the requirements of each business group. The extent of utilization of such manufacturing facilities varies from plant to plant and from time to time during the year. A substantial portion of Motorolas products are manufactured in Asia, primarily China, either in our own facilities or in the facilities of others who manufacture and assemble products for Motorola. If manufacturing in the region was disrupted, Motorolas overall productive capacity could be significantly reduced. Item 3: Legal Proceedings Personal Injury Cases Cases relating to Wireless Telephone Usage On April 19, 2001, Farina v. Nokia, Inc., et al., was filed in the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County. Farina claimed that the failure to incorporate a remote headset into cellular phones rendered the phones defective by exposing users to biological injury and health risks and sought compensatory damages and injunctive relief. After removal to federal court, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (MDL Panel) transferred Farina and three similar but now dismissed cases to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland (the MDL Court) for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings in the matter called In re Wireless Telephone Radio Frequency Emissions Products Liability Litigation (the MDL Proceeding). In 2005, as a result of a decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, the Farina case was remanded to the Pennsylvania state courts. In late 2005 and early 2006, plaintiffs in Farina amended their Table of Contents 28 complaints to add allegations that cellular telephones sold without headsets are defective because they present a safety risk when used while driving and to seek punitive damages. Plaintiffs in Farina also seek declaratory relief and treble and statutory damages. After the Farina complaint was amended, on February 17, 2006, a newly added defendant to the Farina case removed the case to federal court. After initial consolidation with the MDL Proceeding, on June 11, 2007, the MDL Panel transferred Farina back to the federal district court in Philadelphia. Plaintiffs motion to remand to Pennsylvania state courts was denied on February 13, 2008. The federal district court requested that defendants refile and rebrief their motions to dismiss. On September 9, 2002, Dahlgren v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed in the D.C. Superior Court containing class claims alleging deceptive and misleading actions by defendants in falsely stating that cellular phones are safe and by failing to disclose studies that allegedly show cellular phones can cause harm. Dahlgren seeks injunctive and equitable relief, actual damages, treble or statutory damages, punitive damages and a constructive trust. On December 9, 2005, plaintiff filed an amended complaint in Dahlgren. Defendants moved to dismiss Dahlgren on February 3, 2006. That motion is still pending. During 2001 and 2002, several cases were filed in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia alleging that use of a cellular phone caused a malignant brain tumor: Murray v. Motorola, Inc., et al., filed November 15, 2001, Agro, et al. v. Motorola, Inc., et al., filed February 26, 2002; Cochran, et al. v. Audiovox Corporation, et al., filed February 26, 2002, and Schofield, et al. v. Matsushita Electric Corporation of America, et al., filed February 26, 2002,. Each complaint seeks compensatory damages in excess of $25 million, consequential damages in excess of $25 million and punitive and or exemplary damages in excess of $100 million. These cases were removed to federal court and transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland (the MDL Court). On July 19, 2004, the MDL Court found that there was no federal court jurisdiction over Murray, Agro, Cochran and Schofield and remanded those cases to the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. On November 30, 2004, defendants moved to dismiss the Murray, Agro, Cochran and Schofield complaints. On August 24, 2007, the Superior Court for the District of Columbia granted the defendants motion and dismissed the cases with prejudice on federal preemption grounds. On September 20, 2007, plaintiffs appealed the dismissal to the District of Columbia Court of Appeals and that appeal is still pending. Iridium Related Cases Class Action Securities Lawsuits Motorola has been named as one of several defendants in putative class action securities lawsuits arising out of alleged misrepresentations or omissions regarding the Iridium satellite communications business which, on March 15, 2001, were consolidated in the federal district court in the District of Columbia under Freeland v. Iridium World Communications, Inc., et al., originally filed on April 22, 1999. Plaintiffs motion for class certification was granted on January 9, 2006 and the trial is scheduled to begin on May 22, 2008. Bankruptcy Court Lawsuit Motorola was sued by the Official Committee of the Unsecured Creditors of Iridium (the Committee) in the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York on July 19, 2001. In re Iridium Operating LLC, et al. v. Motorola asserts claims for breach of contract, warranty, fiduciary duty and fraudulent transfer and preferences, and seeks in excess of $4 billion in damages. On September 20, 2007, following trial on the solvency and capital adequacy portion of the Committees fraudulent transfer and preference claims, the Iridium Bankruptcy Court granted judgment for Motorola on all those claims. The remaining claims for breach of contract, warranty, fiduciary duty and equitable subordination remain pending. On March 30, 2001, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York presiding over the Iridium bankruptcy proceeding approved a settlement between the unsecured creditors of the Iridium Debtors and the Iridium Debtors pre petition secured lenders. The settlement agreement creates and provides for the funding of a litigation vehicle for the purpose of pursuing litigation against Motorola. Motorola appealed the approval of the settlement first to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and thereafter to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On March 5, 2007, the Court of Appeals vacated the District Court order approving the settlement and directed that the case be remanded to the Iridium Bankruptcy Court for further proceedings. On June 1, 2007, the Unsecured Creditors Committee filed with the bankruptcy court a renewed motion for approval of the Settlement Agreement, to which Motorola objected. That motion remains pending. Table of Contents 29 Iridium India Lawsuits Motorola and certain of its current and former officers and directors were named as defendants in a private criminal complaint filed by Iridium India Telecom Ltd. (Iridium India) in October 2001 in the Court of the Extra Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Khadki, Pune, India. The Iridium India Telecom Ltd. v. Motorola, Inc. et al. complaint alleges that the defendants conspired to, and did, commit the criminal offense of cheating by fraudulently inducing Iridium India to purchase gateway equipment from Motorola, to acquire Iridium stock, and to invest in developing a market for Iridium services in India. Under the Indian penal code, cheating is punishable by imprisonment for up to 7 years and a fine of any amount. The court may also require defendants to compensate the victim for its losses, which the complaint estimates at about $100 million. In August 2003, the Bombay High Court granted Motorolas petition to dismiss the criminal action against Motorola and the individual defendants. Iridium India has petitioned the Indian Supreme Court to exercise its discretion to review that dismissal, and that petition is pending. In September 2002, Iridium India also filed a civil suit in the Bombay High Court against Motorola and Iridium. The suit alleges fraud, intentional misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation by Motorola and Iridium in inducing Iridium India to purchase gateway equipment from Motorola, to acquire Iridium stock, and to invest in developing a market for Iridium services in India. Iridium India claims in excess of $200 million in damages and interest. Following extensive proceedings in the trial court and on appeal related to Iridium Indias motion for interim relief, Motorola has deposited approximately $44 million in a specially designated account in India, and the Indian Supreme Court has accepted for a full hearing at a later date Motorolas appeal regarding interim relief. Shareholder Derivative Case Iridium and Telsim MC Partners III v. Galvin, et al., filed January 10, 2002, in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, is a shareholder derivative action against fifteen current and former members of the Motorola Board of Directors and Motorola as a nominal defendant. The lawsuit alleges that the Motorola directors breached their fiduciary duty to the Company and or committed gross mismanagement of Motorolas business and assets by allowing Motorola to engage in improper practices with respect to Iridium and Telsim (as defined below). In April 2006, the Court held that the plaintiff could not pursue its Iridium related claims, but denied without prejudice plaintiffs motion to file a Third Amended Complaint with respect to new allegations pertaining to Telsim. Following the Courts ruling for defendants on the Iridium related claims and plaintiffs July 20, 2006 demand with respect to Telsim related claims, the Motorola Board of Directors appointed an investigatory committee to investigate those Telsim related claims. On November 13, 2007, after considering the July 2006 demand, proposed complaint, and recommendations made by the Boards investigatory committee, the Board concluded that the evidence does not support MC Partners IIIs proposed claims and prosecution of these claims would not be in the best interests of Motorolas shareholders. Accordingly, the Board rejected MC Partners IIIs demand. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of the Iridium related cases still pending could have a material adverse effect on Motorolas consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Telsim Related Cases In April 2001, Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A.S. (Telsim), a wireless telephone operator in Turkey, defaulted on the payment of approximately $2 billion of loans owed to Motorola and its subsidiaries (the Telsim Loans). The Uzan family controlled Telsim until 2004 when an agency of the Turkish government took over control of Telsim. Telsim was sold by the Turkish government to Vodafone and Motorola received an aggregate payment from the sale of $910 million. Table of Contents 30 U.S. Judgment The Company continues its efforts to collect on its judgment of $2.13 billion (the U.S. Judgment) for compensatory damages rendered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the District Court) against the Uzans on July 31, 2003 and affirmed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the Second Circuit) in 2004 and in connection with foreign proceedings against the Uzan family. However, the Company believes that the ongoing litigation, collection and or settlement processes against the Uzan family will be very lengthy in light of the Uzans continued resistance to satisfy the judgments against them and their decision to violate various courts orders, including orders holding them in contempt of court. Following a remand from the Second Circuit of the U.S. Judgment, on February 8, 2006, the District Court awarded a judgment in favor of Motorola for $1 billion in punitive damages against the Uzan family and their co conspirator, Antonio Luna Bettancourt. That decision was affirmed by the Second Circuit on November 21, 2007. In re Motorola Securities Litigation A purported class action lawsuit, Barry Family LP v. Carl F. Koenemann, was filed against the former chief financial officer of Motorola on December 24, 2002, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b 5. In 2003, it was consolidated with a number of related cases as In re Motorola Securities Litigation in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (Illinois District Court). During 2005, the Illinois District Court certified the case as a class action. In April 2007, the parties entered into a settlement agreement, pursuant to which Motorola paid $190 million to the class and all claims against Motorola by the class have been dismissed and released. Howell v. Motorola, Inc., et al. A class action, Howell v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against Motorola and various of its directors, officers and employees in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (Illinois District Court) on July 21, 2003, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The complaint alleged that the defendants had improperly permitted participants in the Motorola 401(k) Plan (the Plan) to purchase or hold shares of common stock of Motorola because the price of Motorolas stock was artificially inflated by a failure to disclose vendor financing to Telsim in connection with the sale of telecommunications equipment by Motorola. The plaintiff sought to represent a class of participants in the Plan and sought an unspecified amount of damages. On September 30, 2005, the district court dismissed the second amended complaint filed on October 15, 2004 (the Howell Complaint). Three new purported lead plaintiffs have since intervened in the case, and have filed a motion for class certification seeking to represent a class of Plan participants. On September 28, 2007, the Illinois District Court granted the motion for class certification but narrowed the requested scope of the class. On October 25, 2007, the Illinois District Court modified the scope of the class, granted summary judgment dismissing two of the individually named defendants in light of the narrowed class, and ruled that the judgment as to the original named plaintiff, Howell, would be immediately appealable. The class as certified includes all Plan participants for whose individual accounts the Plan purchased and or held shares of Motorola common stock from May 16, 2000 through May 14, 2001, with certain exclusions. On February 15, 2008 plaintiffs and defendants each filed motions for summary judgment in the Illinois District Court. On February 22, 2008 the appellate court granted defendants motion for leave to appeal from the Illinois District Courts class certification decision. In addition, the original named plaintiff, Howell, has appealed the dismissal of his claim. Silverman/Williams Federal Securities Lawsuits and Related Derivative Matters A purported class action lawsuit on behalf of the purchasers of Motorola securities between July 19, 2006 and January 5, 2007, Silverman v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors of the Company on August 9, 2007, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b 5 as well as, in the case of the individual defendants, the control person provisions of the Securities Exchange Act. The factual assertions in the complaint consist primarily of the allegation that the defendants knowingly made incorrect statements concerning Motorolas projected revenues for the third and fourth quarter of 2006. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief relating to the purported inflation in the price of Motorola shares during the class period. An amended complaint was filed December 20, 2007. Table of Contents 31 In addition, on August 24, 2007, two lawsuits were filed as purportedly derivative actions on behalf of Motorola, Williams v. Zander, et al., and Cinotto v. Zander, et al., in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. These complaints make similar factual allegations to those made in the Silverman complaint and assert causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment. The complaints seek unspecified damages associated with the alleged loss to the Company deriving from the defendants actions and demand that Motorola make a number of changes to its internal procedures. An amended complaint was filed on December 14, 2007, and defendants moved to dismiss that complaint in January 2008. Charter Communications Class Action Securities Litigation On August 5, 2002, Stoneridge Investment Partners LLC filed a purported class action in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri (District Court) against Charter Communications, Inc. (Charter) and certain of its officers, alleging violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder relating to Charter securities. This complaint did not name Motorola as a defendant, but asserted that Charter and the other named defendants had violated the securities laws in connection with, inter alia, a transaction with Motorola. On August 5, 2003, the plaintiff amended its complaint to add Motorola, Inc. as a defendant. As to Motorola, the amended complaint alleged a claim under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5(a) (c) promulgated thereunder relating to Charter securities and seeks an award of compensatory damages. The District Court issued a final judgment dismissing Motorola from the case which plaintiff appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit (Court of Appeals). On April 11, 2006, the Court of Appeals affirmed the final judgment of the District Court dismissing Motorola from the case. On January 15, 2008, the Supreme Court affirmed the decision of the Court of Appeals. In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation On December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in two cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation (the Adelphia MDL). The Adelphia MDL consists of at least fourteen individual cases and one purported class action that were filed in or have been transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. First, Motorola was named as a defendant in the Second Amended Complaint in the individual case of W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. v. Deloitte Touche LLP, et al. (the Huff Complaint) This case was originally filed by W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. on June 7, 2002, in the United States District Court for the Western District of New York and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as related to the Adelphia MDL. Motorola and several other individual and corporate defendants are named in the amended complaint. As to Motorola, the complaint alleges a claim arising under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder relating to Adelphia securities, and seeks recovery of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia debt securities, compensatory damages, costs and expenses of litigation and other relief. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss this complaint on March 8, 2004, which is awaiting decision. Also on December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in Stocke v. John J. Rigas, et al. This case was originally filed in Pennsylvania and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as related to the Adelphia MDL. Motorola and several other individual and corporate defendants are named in the amended complaint. As to Motorola, the complaint generally makes the same allegations as the Huff Complaint and a state law claim of aiding and abetting fraud relating to Adelphia securities. The complaint seeks return of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia securities, punitive damages and other relief. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss this complaint on April 12, 2004, which is awaiting decision. On July 23, 2004, Motorola was named as a defendant in Argent Classic Convertible Arbitrage Fund L.P., et al. v. Scientific Atlanta, Inc., et al. (the Argent Complaint). The Argent Complaint was filed against Scientific Atlanta and Motorola in the Southern District of New York. The Argent Complaint generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have been transferred to the Southern District of New York. The complaint seeks compensatory damages and other relief. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the Argent Complaint on October 12, 2004, which is awaiting decision. On September 14, 2004, Motorola was named in a complaint filed in state court in Los Angeles, California, naming Motorola and Scientific Atlanta and certain officers of Scientific Atlanta, Los Angeles County Employees Retirement Association et al. v. Motorola, Inc., et al. The complaint raises claims under California law for aiding Table of Contents 32 and abetting fraud and conspiracy to defraud and generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have been transferred to the Southern District of New York. There are no new substantive allegations. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, opportunity cost damages, punitive and other exemplary damages and other relief. In late 2004, the Multi District Litigation Panel transferred the case to federal court in New York, which transfer is now final. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in this action on September 19, 2005, which is awaiting decision. On October 25, 2004, Motorola was named in a complaint filed in state court in Fulton County, Georgia, naming Motorola and Scientific Atlanta and certain officers of Scientific Atlanta, AIG DKR SoundShore Holdings, Ltd., et al. v. Scientific Atlanta Inc., et al. The complaint raises claims under Georgia law of conspiracy to defraud and generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have already been filed and transferred to the Southern District of New York. The complaint seeks damages and statutory compensation, punitive damages and other relief. On April 18, 2005, the Multi District Litigation Panel issued a final order transferring the case to New York and that transfer is final. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in this action on September 19, 2005, which is awaiting decision. Adelphia Communications Corp. Bankruptcy Court Lawsuit On June 23, 2006, Adelphia objected to Motorolas claim for payment of $67 million and asserted causes of action against Motorola including preferences, avoidance of liens, fraudulent transfers, equitable subordination and aiding and abetting fraud as part of the ongoing Adelphia bankruptcy action in the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Plaintiff is alleging damages in excess of $1 billion against Motorola for the above stated causes of action. Intellectual Property Related Cases Tessera, Inc. v. Motorola, Inc., et al. Motorola is a purchaser of semiconductor chips with certain ball grid array (BGA) packaging from suppliers including Qualcomm, Inc. (Qualcomm), Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (Freescale Semiconductor), ATI Technologies, Inc. (ATI), Spansion Inc. (Spansion), and STMicroelectronics N.V. (STMicro). On April 17, 2007, Tessera, Inc. (Tessera) filed patent infringement legal actions against Qualcomm, Freescale Semiconductor, ATI, Spansion, STMicro and Motorola in the U.S. International Trade Commission (the ITC) (In the Matter of Certain Semiconductor Chips with Minimized Chip Package Size and Products Containing Same, Inv. No. 337 TA 605) and the United States District Court, Eastern District of Texas, Tessera, Inc. v. Motorola, Inc., Qualcomm, Inc., Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. and ATI Technologies, Inc., alleging that certain BGA packaged semiconductors infringe patents that Tessera claims to own. Tessera is seeking orders to ban the importation into the U.S. of certain semiconductor chips with BGA packaging and certain downstream products that contain them (including Motorola products) and or limit suppliers ability to provide certain services and products or take certain actions in the U.S. relating to the packaged chips. The patent claims being asserted by Tessera are subject to reexamination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO). In the reexamination proceedings, the PTO has issued rejections of Tesseras asserted patent claims. On February 26, 2008, the ITC action was stayed pending the completion of the PTOs reexamination proceedings. Motorola is a defendant in various other suits, claims and investigations that arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, and other than discussed above with respect to the Iridium cases, the ultimate disposition of the Companys pending legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Table of Contents 33 Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Following are the persons who were the executive officers of Motorola as of February 28, 2008, their ages as of January 1, 2008, their current titles and positions they have held during the last five years: Gregory Q. Brown; age 47; President and Chief Executive Officer since January 1, 2008; President and Chief Operating Officer from June 2007 to January 2008; Executive Vice President, President, Networks and Enterprise from January 2005 to June 2007; Executive Vice President and President, Commercial, Government and Industrial Solutions Sector from January 2003 to January 2005. Eugene A. Delaney; age 51; Senior Vice President, Government and Public Safety, Enterprise Mobility Solutions since May 2007; Senior Vice President, International Sales Operations, Networks and Enterprise from May 2006 to May 2007; Senior Vice President, International Sales Operations, Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions from May 2005 to May 2006; Executive Vice President and President, Global Relations and Resources Organization from January 2003 to May 2005. Rita S. Lane; age 45; Senior Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain since July 2007; Corporate Vice President and Chief Procurement Officer from June 2006 to July 2007; Vice President Brand Advocate, Total Storage x Series, Integrated Supply Chain, IBM Corporation (IBM) from July 2005 to June 2006; Vice President, x Series, Integrated Supply Chain, IBM from July 2004 to July 2005; Director, Total Storage, Integrated Supply Chain, IBM from April 2002 to July 2004. A. Peter Lawson; age 61; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 1998. Gregory A. Lee; age 58; Senior Vice President, Human Resources since January 2008; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Coca Cola Enterprises from August 2006 to January 2008; Independent consultant, providing advice and counsel on talent management strategies from May 2005 to August 2006; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Sears, Roebuck and Co., from January 2001 to May 2005. Thomas J. Meredith; age 57; Executive Vice President, Acting Chief Financial Officer since April 2007; General Partner and Co Founder, Meritage Capital, L.P. from May 2003 to present; Chief Executive Officer of MFI Capital from July 2001 to present. Daniel M. Moloney; age 48; Executive Vice President, President, Home and Networks Mobility since April 2007; Executive Vice President, President, Connected Home Solutions from January 2005 to April 2007; Executive Vice President and President, Broadband Communications Sector from June 2002 to January 2005. Patricia B. Morrison; age 48; Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer since February 2007; Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer from July 2005 to February 2007; Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer of Office Depot, Inc. from January 2002 to April 2005. Richard N. Nottenburg; age 53; Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy and Technology Officer since December 2007; Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer from March 2005 to December 2007; Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer from July 2004 to March 2005; Strategic Advisor to Motorola, Inc. from February 2004 to July 2004; Vice President and General Manager of Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation from August 2003 to January 2004; Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Multilink from January 1995 to August 2003. The above executive officers will serve as executive officers of Motorola until the regular meeting of the Board of Directors in May 2008 or until their respective successors shall have been elected. There is no family relationship between any of the executive officers listed above. Table of Contents 34 PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Motorolas common stock is listed on the New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges. The number of stockholders of record of Motorola common stock on January 31, 2008 was 79,907. Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to the information under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information of Motorolas Proxy Statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The remainder of the response to this Item incorporates by reference Note 16, Quarterly and Other Financial Data (unaudited) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing under 
 
