Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item A: Risk Factors of this document. Available Information We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorola.com/investor, our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SECs website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents: Motorola, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation Motorola, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws Motorola, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines Motorola, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines Table of Contents 17 Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola, Inc. Board of Directors Motorola Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola employees, including the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer) Audit and Legal Committee Charter Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter Governance and Nominating Committee Charter All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E mail: investors@motorola.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10 K and Definitive Proxy Statement may also be requested in hardcopy by clicking on Printed Materials at www.motorola.com/investor. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Table of Contents 18 Item 1A: Risk Factors We wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this report or our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. We have had substantial operating losses in 2008 and 2007 and may continue to incur losses as we reposition our Mobile Devices business. In 2008 and 2007, Motorola had substantial operating losses as a result of the financial performance of our Mobile Devices business. While we have plans in place intended to improve the performance of this business, we cannot be certain that we will be successful or that we will be profitable in 2009. The wireless mobile handset market experienced slowing growth in 2008 and the market is expected to decline in 2009 which could negatively impact transition plans for our Mobile Devices business. In 2009, worldwide wireless handset industry unit shipments are expected to decline by approximately 10%. This would be the first annual decline in industry handset unit shipments since 2001. A declining mobile handset market may make it more difficult to improve our business, due to excess manufacturing capacity, increased price competition and other market factors. We have lost significant market share in our Mobile Devices businesses and such loss has negatively impacted our performance and may continue to negatively impact our financial results. Our share of the worldwide wireless handset market has declined significantly in the last two years, from approximately 22% in 2006, to 14% in 2007, to 8% in 2008. While we reduced our costs during this period of time, these market share declines and resulting volume reductions have had an adverse effect on our results of operations. If market share in our Mobile Devices business continues to decline, it will adversely impact our financial results. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions makes budgeting and forecasting difficult and may reduce demand for our products. Current conditions in the domestic and world economies are very uncertain. The global financial crisis, as well as ongoing political conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere, have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted worldwide markets. As a result, it is difficult to estimate changes in various parts of the world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures difficult. We have manufacturing operations and engineering resources in Israel that could be disrupted as a result of hostilities in the region. We also sell our products and services throughout the Middle East and demand for our products and services could be adversely impacted by hostilities in this region. The potential for future terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts and public health issues has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products. We operate in highly competitive markets and our financial results will be affected if we are not able to compete effectively. The markets for our products are highly competitive with respect to, among other factors: pricing, product features, product and service quality, and the time required to introduce new products and services. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, or may offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer. We can give no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. We face intense competition in these Table of Contents 19 markets from both established companies and new entrants. Product life cycles can be short and new products are expensive to develop and bring to market. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products and upgrades of current products to comply with emerging industry standards and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our competitors. The research and development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology and market trends. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted or are not commercially viable. In addition, our products may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment. If our products are not competitive or do not work properly, our business will suffer. Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products, such as: advanced wireless handsets, including smartphones; WiMAX, LTE and other advanced technologies for wireless broadband networks; products for transmission of telephony and high speed data over hybrid fiber coaxial cable systems; integrated digital radios; and integrated public safety systems. These risks include: (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products; (ii) customer acceptance of products; (iii) the development of, approval and compliance with industry standards; (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technology; and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets. We face a number of risks related to the ongoing financial crisis and severe tightening in the global credit markets. The ongoing global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in the worldwide credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. This financial crisis has impacted, and could continue to impact, Motorolas business in a number of ways, including: Potential Deferment or Cancellation of Purchases and Orders by Customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause, and in some cases has caused, consumers, businesses and governments to defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. If future demand for our products declines, it will adversely impact our financial results. Customers Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from Motorola and or Maintain Their Business: Some of our customers require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from Motorola. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and or meet their payment obligations to us could have, and in some cases has had, an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, if the financial crisis results in insolvencies for our customers, it will adversely impact our financial results. Increased Requests by Customers for Vendor Financing by Motorola: Certain of the Companys customers, particularly, but not limited to, those who purchase large infrastructure systems, request that their suppliers provide financing in connection with equipment purchases. In response to the recent tightening in the credit markets, these types of requests continue to increase in volume and scope. Motorola has increased its commitments to provide financing in light of these requests and a continuation of the current credit crisis could force Motorola to choose between further increasing its level of vendor financing or potentially losing sales to these customers. Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Third Party Dealers, Distributors and Retailers: A number of our businesses make sales in certain regions through third party dealers, distributors and retailers. Although many of these third parties have significant operations and maintain access to available credit, others are smaller and more likely to be impacted by the significant decrease in available credit that has resulted from the current financial crisis. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for important third parties and Motorola is unable to successfully transition end customers to purchase our products from other third parties or from us directly, it will adversely impact our financial results. Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key Suppliers: Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of Table of Contents 20 supplies and adversely impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at key suppliers have resulted in accelerated payment of accounts payable by Motorola, impacting our cash flow. This trend could continue and may even accelerate, impacting our cash flow. Increased Risk of Losses or Impairment Charges Related to Debt Securities and Equity and Other Investments Held by Motorola: The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. In 2008, Motorola has recognized $186 million of impairment charges and $101 million of temporary unrealized losses on debt securities held in its Sigma Fund, a broadly diversified portfolio of highly rated, short duration debt securities. There can be no assurance that the value of Sigma Fund investments will not decline further in the future. Also, many of the Companys equity investments are in early stage technology companies and, therefore, may be particularly subject to substantial price volatility and heightened risk from the tightening in the credit markets. Increased Risk of Financial Counterparty Failures Could Negatively Impact our Financial Position: The Company uses financial instruments to reduce its overall exposure to the effects of currency fluctuations on cash flows. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to these financial instruments. In order to minimize this risk, the contracts are distributed among several leading financial institutions, all of whom presently have investment grade credit ratings. Although the Company has not experienced and does not anticipate nonperformance by its counterparties, in light of the ongoing threats to financial institutions from the global financial crisis, there can be no assurance of performance by the counterparties to these financial instruments. Returns on Pension and Retirement Plan Assets and Interest Rate Changes Could Affect Our Earnings in Future Periods: The funding position of our pension plans is impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and the discount rates used to calculate our pension obligations for funding and expense purposes. Recent significant declines in the financial markets have negatively impacted the value of the assets in the Companys pension plans. In addition, lower bond yields may reduce our discount rates resulting in increased pension contributions and expense. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of higher contributions in the future increases. Impact on Ability to Sell Receivables: The Company sells accounts receivable and long term receivables to third parties. Sales are made both on a one time, non recourse basis and under committed facilities that involve contractual commitments from third parties to purchase qualifying receivables up to monetary limits. These sales of receivables provide the Company the ability to accelerate cash flow when it is prudent to do so. The ability to sell (or factor) receivables, particularly under committed facilities, is often subject to the credit quality of the obligor and the Companys ability to obtain sufficient levels of credit insurance from independent insurance companies. In early 2009, a $400 million committed facility expired and was not renewed. Although the Company is negotiating replacement facilities, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to implement these facilities. Reduction in the volume of committed receivable purchasing facilities could limit the Companys ability to sell receivables in the future. Further, the severe tightening in the credit markets due to the ongoing global financial crisis could limit the Companys ability to sell receivables in the future, particularly if the creditworthiness of our customers declines. Impact on Ability to Purchase Sufficient Credit Insurance: We purchase a large amount of credit insurance to mitigate some of our credit risks. In particular, our ability to sell receivables, particularly under committed receivables facilities, is often subject to obtaining sufficient levels of credit insurance from independent insurance companies. Accordingly, our ability to sell certain of our receivables, and therefore our cash flows, could be negatively impacted if we are not able to continue to purchase credit insurance in certain countries and in sufficient quantities. Although credit insurance remains generally available to the Company, it has become more expensive to obtain and often requires higher deductibles than in the past. Table of Contents 21 There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of credit insurance in the necessary locations in the future. We face a number of risks related to the recent downgrade of the Companys long term debt to non investment grade by one credit rating agency: In December, Standard and Poors downgraded the Companys long term debt to BB+ (one level below investment grade) from BBB and removed the short term rating. In February 2009, Fitch Ratings downgraded the Companys long term debt to BBB from BBB and downgraded the short term debt rating to F 3 from F 2. Also in February 2009, Moodys Investor Service downgraded the Companys long term debt to Baa3 from Baa2 and downgraded the short term debt rating to P 3 from P 2. Since the Company has a non investment grade rating from one rating agency, it is referred to as a split rated credit. Our access to short term borrowing in the commercial paper market is very limited: While the Company did not issue commercial paper in 2008, if the Company needs access to very short term borrowing, it may no longer be able to access the unsecured commercial paper market because of its P 3/F 3 short term ratings. Other sources of short term borrowing may be more limited, if available at all, and will have higher cost to borrow than the commercial paper market. Our access to the long term debt market may be limited: As a split rated credit, our ability to issue long term debt is more limited and the market into which split rated debt is offered can be very volatile and can be unavailable for periods of time. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to quickly issue long term debt and any debt issued may be more costly. These factors may impact our operating flexibility. Our ability to provide performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds could be severely limited: Commercial contracts with Motorolas customers often require performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds (collectively, referred to as Performance Bonds) to be issued on behalf of the Company by banks and insurance companies. As a split rated credit, issuers of these Performance Bonds may be less likely to provide Performance Bonds on the Companys behalf in the future, unless the Company provides collateral. These limitations on issuance may apply to the renewal and extension of existing Performance Bonds, as well as the issuance of new Performance Bonds. Such collateral requirements could result in less liquidity for other operational needs. Also, as a result of the Companys current credit ratings, there has been an increase in the cost of issuance of Performance Bonds. Our ability to hedge foreign exchange risk could be severely limited: As a split rated credit, counterparties may be unwilling to provide trading and derivative lines for the Company without cash collateral. This would severely limit our ability to reduce volatility in earnings and cash flow. Should cash collateral be provided, less liquidity would be available for operational needs. Our ability to fund our foreign affiliates could be limited: The Company relies on uncommitted lines of credit from banks to provide daylight overdraft, short term loans and other sources of liquidity for foreign affiliates. As a split rated credit, lenders may be unwilling to provide credit to our foreign affiliates. This could result in the Company using U.S. cash to make loans to these affiliates or provide permanent equity where loans are not possible. Trade terms with suppliers could become less favorable: Given the Companys split rating, suppliers may require letters of credit, cash collateral or other forms of security as part of standard payment conditions. This could result in reduced liquidity and less leverage in pricing negotiations. Our ability to sell receivables could be impacted: As a split rated credit, the conditions placed on us by the parties that we sell our receivables to will become more stringent. If we are unable, or choose not to, meet these new conditions, our ability to sell the receivables will be negatively impacted. We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility if we are not able to meet the conditions for borrowing required by our facility. Our existing $2 billion five year domestic syndicated revolving credit facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. Although there are no borrowings outstanding under the facility, if we wish to borrow under this facility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations. Table of Contents 22 We may not generate sufficient future taxable income, which may require additional deferred tax asset valuation allowances. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. and certain other jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, the Company could be required to increase its valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in an increase in its effective tax rate and an adverse impact on future operating results. We may be required to record additional goodwill or amortizable intangible assets impairment charges, which could result in an additional significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in the Companys stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. During 2008, the Company recorded goodwill impairment charges of $1.6 billion and intangible assets impairment charges of $129 million. The goodwill impairment charges resulted from lower asset values in the overall market and the impact of the macroenvironment on the Companys near term forecasts. The intangible asset impairments resulted from a change in a technology platform strategy. Further declines in the Companys stock price, the markets or reductions in the Companys future cash flow estimates and future operating results may require the Company to record significant additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in our financial statements in future periods, negatively impacting our financial results. Our strategy to separate our businesses into two publicly traded companies may have an adverse effect on business operations and our assets. The Company has announced a strategy to separate into two publicly traded companies in the future, if and when market and businesses conditions support a separation. There are various uncertainties and risks relating to the proposed separation of our businesses into two publicly traded companies, which are enhanced because we have not announced a target date for the separation or determined the structure that will best serve the strategic realignment. The uncertainties and risks that could have an adverse effect on our business operations or assets include: (i) the distraction of management and disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; (ii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in increased difficulties in recruiting and retaining employees, particularly highly qualified employees; (iii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers, suppliers, vendors and partners and may result in the loss of business opportunities; (iv) the process of exploring strategic alternatives may be time consuming and expensive and may result in the loss of business opportunities; and (v) we may not be able to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative undertaken by us. Our future financial results may be negatively impacted if we do not execute on our hardware and software strategy for our Mobile Devices business. As part of our ongoing effort to improve the product portfolio of our Mobile Devices business, we are in the process of rationalizing our hardware and software platforms to reduce the complexity of our product platforms and system architecture to lower our cost to produce devices and to enable richer consumer experiences. Failure to execute these rationalization plans in a timely and effective manner may cause us to be competitively disadvantaged in many areas, including but not limited to, cost, time to market and the ability to ramp up production in a timely fashion with acceptable quality and improved/additional features. If our operating system strategy is not successful, our Mobile Devices business could be negatively impacted. We have made a strategic decision to use third party and or open source operating systems, such as Googles Android operating system and Microsofts Windows Mobile operating system in our wireless products. As a result of this, we are at risk due to our dependency on third parties continued development of operating systems and third parties software application ecosystem infrastructures. With respect to Googles Android operating system which is a newer operating system for wireless handsets, in the event that Googles Android team no longer develops the Android code base and this development is not taken up by the open source community, this would increase the burden of development on Motorola. From an overall risk perspective, the industry is currently engaged in an extremely competitive phase with respect to operating system platforms and software generally. Table of Contents 23 Android is viewed as a competitive platform in the Linux and smartphone categories. If Android fails to gain operator and or developer adoption, the Companys financial results could be negatively impacted. We have taken, and continue to take, cost reduction actions. Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost reduction actions, in turn, may expose us to additional production risk and have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability and ability to attract and retain employees. We have been reducing costs and simplifying our product portfolios in all of our businesses, with sizable reductions in our Mobile Devices business. We have discontinued product lines, exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations, increased manufacturing with third parties, reduced our employee population and changed our compensation and benefit programs. The impact of these cost reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by many factors including, but not limited to: (i) our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts; (ii) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete; (iii) delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia; (iv) decline in employee morale and the potential inability to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees; (v) our ability to retain or recruit key employees, particularly as a result of recent actions to suspend the Companys 401(k) contributions to employee accounts, permanently freeze all future benefit accruals under U.S. pension plans and eliminate merit increase programs in the U.S. and many other markets; (vi) the adequacy of our manufacturing capacity, including capacity provided by third parties; and (vii) the performance of other parties under contract manufacturing arrangements on which we rely for the manufacture of certain products, parts and components. All of our businesses have consolidated or exited certain facilities and our products are manufactured in fewer facilities than in the past. While we have business continuity and risk management plans in place in case capacity is significantly reduced or eliminated at a given facility, the reduced number of alternative facilities could cause the duration of any manufacturing disruption to be longer. As a result, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. The demand for our products depends, in part, on the continued growth of the industries in which we participate. A market decline in any one of these industries could have an adverse effect on our business. The rate at which the portions of the telecommunications industry in which we participate continue to grow is critical to our ability to improve our overall financial performance and we could be negatively impacted by a slowdown. Our business was very negatively impacted by the economic slowdown and the corresponding reduction in capital spending by the telecommunications industry from 2001 to 2003, and we are forecasting declines and slower growth in 2009 for the industries we compete in. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and more than half of our net sales are made to customers outside the U.S. In addition, we have many manufacturing, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and more than half of our employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our suppliers operations are outside the U.S., and most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. As with all companies that have sizeable sales and operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to: (i) tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs classifications and certifications, including but not limited to changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to such classifications and certifications; (ii) changes in U.S. and non U.S. rules related to trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards consumer protection; (iii) longer payment cycles; (iv) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., obligations under tax incentive agreements, and difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner; (v) currency fluctuations, particularly in the Chinese renminbi, Euro, Brazilian real, Taiwan dollar and Japanese yen; (vi) foreign exchange regulations, which may limit the Companys ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency; (vii) challenges in collecting accounts receivable; (viii) cultural and language differences; (ix) employment regulations and local labor conditions; (x) difficulties protecting IP in foreign countries; (xi) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; (xii) natural disasters; (xiii) public health issues or outbreaks; Table of Contents 24 (xiv) changes in laws or regulations that adversely impact benefits being received by the Company; and (xv) the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. Many of our products that are manufactured outside the U.S. are manufactured in Asia and Mexico. If manufacturing in these regions is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the legal system in China is still developing and is subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in China could be adversely impacted by changes to, or interpretation of, Chinese law. We also have presence in emerging markets such as India and Russia. We face challenges in emerging markets, including creating demand for our products and the negative impact of changes in the laws, or the interpretation of the laws, in those countries. Changes in our operations or sales outside the U.S. markets could result in lost benefits in impacted countries and increase our cost of doing business. The Company has entered into various agreements with non U.S. governments, agencies, or similar organizations under which the Company receives certain benefits relating to its operations and or sales in the jurisdiction. If the Companys circumstances change and operations or sales are not at levels originally anticipated, the Company may be at risk of losing some or all of these benefits and increasing our cost of doing business. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be adversely affected. Some of the products we sell have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our customers, distributors or end users, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such pre shipment and post shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer imposed penalties on Motorola for failure to meet contractual requirements, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation. In some cases, if the quality issue affects the products safety or regulatory compliance, then such a defective product may need to be recalled. Depending on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the field, it could cause the Company to incur substantial recall costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders, and the damage to the Companys goodwill or brand/reputation. In addition, the Company may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that the Company receives from the contracts. Recalls involving regulatory agencies could also result in fines and additional costs. Finally, recalls could result in third party litigation, including class action litigation by persons alleging common harm resulting from the purchase of the products. If the volume of our sales decrease or do not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs that may make our products less competitive. We have negotiated favorable pricing terms with many of our suppliers, some of which have volume based pricing. In the case of volume based pricing arrangements, we may experience higher than anticipated costs if current volume based purchase projections are not met. Some contracts have minimum purchase commitments and we may incur large financial penalties if these commitments are not met. We also may have unused production capacity if our current volume projections are not met, increasing our production cost per unit. In the future, as we establish new pricing terms, our volume demand could adversely impact future pricing from suppliers. All of these outcomes may result in our products being more costly to manufacture and less competitive. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components to meet the demands of our customers. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. We have experienced shortages in the past that have adversely affected our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Furthermore, certain Table of Contents 25 of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to form successful strategic alliances. If these arrangements do not develop as expected, our business may be adversely impacted. We currently partner with industry leaders to meet customer product and service requirements and to develop innovative advances in design and technology. Some of our partnerships allow us to supplement internal manufacturing capacity and share the cost of developing next generation technologies. Other partnerships allow us to offer more services and features to our customers. If such arrangements do not develop as expected, our business could be adversely impacted. We rely on third party distributors, representatives and retailers to sell certain of our products. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third party distributors, representatives and retailers. Certain of our distributors or representatives may also market other products that compete with our products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers, could affect our ability to bring products to market. We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights. Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers and or our suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, (ii) if the intellectual property indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover damages and losses due to infringement of third party intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) if we are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities to our customers, or (iv) if our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect our proprietary rights. We may be harmed if we are forced to make publicly available, under the relevant open source licenses, certain internally developed software related intellectual property as a result of either our use of open source software code or the use of third party software that contains open source code. Because our products are comprised of complex technology, much of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or impacted by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our customers and suppliers. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Increasingly, third parties have sought broad injunctive relief which could limit our ability to sell our products in the U.S. or elsewhere with intellectual property subject to the claims. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or supplier are subject to a final injunction. We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations or that a suppliers indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by Motorola and our customers due to the infringing products or that a supplier may choose to accept a license or modify or replace its products with non infringing products which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, Motorola may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any ultimate resolution or outcome that may adversely impact Motorolas sales if a court enters an injunction that enjoins the suppliers products or if the International Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks Motorola products from importation into the U.S. In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from intellectual property litigation against them. Because our customers often derive much larger revenue streams by reselling or leasing our products than we generate from the same products, these indemnity claims by our customers have the potential to expose us to damages that are much higher than we would be exposed to if we were sued directly. Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property rights as proprietary and attempt to protect them Table of Contents 26 with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business. As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new areas may not be as developed as in our longer standing businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new markets. We face risks related to ongoing patent related disputes between Qualcomm and Broadcom. Motorola is a purchaser of CDMA EV DO baseband processor chips and chipsets from Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm), and we previously announced an intention to design certain of Qualcomms W CDMA chipsets into certain of our 3G handsets. Qualcomm and Broadcom Corporation (Broadcom) are engaged in several patent related legal actions. In certain of these actions, Broadcom is seeking orders to ban the importation into the U.S. of Qualcomms infringing EV DO and W CDMA baseband processor chipsets and certain downstream products that contain them (including Motorola handsets) and or limit Qualcomms ability to provide certain services and products in the U.S. relating to such infringing chipsets. A final outcome adverse to Qualcomm in any of the patent related legal actions could have a material adverse impact on Motorolas performance by making it difficult, more expensive or impossible for Motorola to make and or import products destined for the U.S. market that use certain infringing Qualcomm chipsets. While we continue to work with Qualcomm and others on contingency plans relating to these cases, there is no guarantee that such plans will prove successful or avoid further legal challenge. Our future financial results may be negatively impacted if we are not successful in licensing our intellectual property. As part of the business strategy of some of our business segments, primarily our Mobile Devices business, we generate revenue through the licensing of intellectual property rights. The licensed rights include those that are essential to telecommunications standards, such as the GSM standard. Previously agreed upon terms of some of our long standing license agreements and the aging of our essential patent portfolio have reduced our royalty revenue over the past several years and are likely to continue to reduce that revenue. Uncertainty in the legal environment makes it difficult to assure that we will be able to enter into new license agreements that will be sufficient to offset that reduction in our revenue. Many of our components and products are designed or manufactured by third parties and if third party manufacturers lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third party manufacturers, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third party suppliers for many of the components used in our products and we rely on third party manufacturers to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products. If we are not able to engage such manufacturers with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also have third party arrangements for the design or manufacture of certain products, parts and components. If we are not able to engage such parties with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or if these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (iii) the risk Table of Contents 27 that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (iv) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (v) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (vi) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (vii) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (viii) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (ix) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. Acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on their earnings) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher valuation than Motorola may be dilutive to our earnings, especially when the acquired business has little or no revenue. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near term earnings and have, in the past, foregone certain of these acquisitions. Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of change in control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be difficult to retain certain key employees. The value of our investments in the securities of various companies fluctuates and it may be difficult for us to realize the value of these investments. We hold a portfolio of investments in various companies. Since the majority of these securities represent investments in technology companies, the fair market values of these securities are subject to significant price volatility. In addition, the realizable value of these securities is subject to market and other conditions. We also have invested in numerous privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in startup or developmental stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose all or substantially all of the value of our investments in these companies, and in some cases have. The Sigma Fund holds U.S. Dollar denominated debt obligations which include, among other securities, corporate bonds, asset and mortgage backed securities. As issuers of these securities continue to be negatively impacted by the weakened global economic environment and dislocation in the financial markets, the total fair value of the Sigma Fund holdings is less than its total original cost. The fair value of these holdings may experience further declines due to the widening credit spreads in several debt market segments or if the underlying debtors should default on their obligations. Such events could result in additional temporary unrealized losses or impairment charges in the Sigma Fund investments. It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of highly skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive. Competition for key technical personnel in high technology industries is intense. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel needed to compete and develop successful new products. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly skilled personnel. In particular, we may have more difficulty attracting or retaining highly skilled personnel during periods of poor operating performance, and as a result of recent actions to suspend the Companys 401(k) contributions to employee accounts, permanently freeze all future benefit accruals under U.S. pension plans and eliminate merit increase programs in the U.S. and many other markets. The unfavorable outcome of litigation pending or future litigation could materially impact the Company. Our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and or sell are subject to a wide range of global laws. Compliance with existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, and generally impact our financial Table of Contents 28 performance. Some of these laws relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to hazardous substances. In the United States, laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or action regardless of fault. Motorola continues to incur disposal costs and has ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to U.S. environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on Motorola. Over the last several years, laws focused on: the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; and reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products have expanded significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, sound levels of music playing devices, and other aspects are also proliferating. These laws impact our products and make it more expensive to manufacture and sell product. It may also be difficult to comply with the laws in a timely way and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, thereby impacting our sales and profitability. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain hazardous constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. We are exposed to risks under large multi year system contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large multi year system contracts with large customers. This exposes us to risks, including: (i) the technological risks of such contracts, especially when the contracts involve new technology, and (ii) financial risks under these contracts, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large contracts and the related impact on operating results. We are also facing increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated. Political developments also can impact the nature and timing of these large contracts. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance we are forced to retain the risk. The Company has many types of insurance coverage and also self insures for some risks and obligations. The insurance market was disrupted after the events of September 11, 2001 and the 2005 hurricanes. While the cost and availability of most insurance has stabilized, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain unavailable. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims and public liability are potential self insured events that could negatively impact our financial results. Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of the wireless communications industry or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors. Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services. The growth of the wireless and personal communications industry may be affected: (i) by regulations relating to the access to allocated spectrum for wireless communication users, especially in urban areas, (ii) if adequate frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth has been and may continue to be affected by the cost of new licenses required to use frequencies and any related frequency relocation costs. The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing new wireless communications technologies to be developed and offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network systems, such as WiFi, mesh technologies and wide area network systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other technologies. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new opportunities for Motorola and our customers. Changes in government policies and laws or economic conditions may adversely affect our financial results. Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our operations, including in emerging markets in Asia, India, Latin America and Eastern Europe, and in markets subject to ongoing political hostilities and war, including the Middle East. Table of Contents 29 In addition, the laws and regulations that apply directly to access to, or commerce on, the Internet are still evolving. We could be adversely affected by any such regulation in any country where we operate, including under the new presidential administration in the U.S. The adoption of such measures could decrease demand for our products and at the same time increase the cost of selling such products. Consolidations in both the cable and telecommunication industries may adversely impact our business. The cable and telecommunication industries have experienced consolidation and this trend is expected to continue according to industry estimates. Industry consolidation could result in delays of purchases or in the selection of new suppliers by the merged companies. This could adversely impact equipment suppliers like Motorola and our competitors. Due to continuing consolidation within the cable and telecommunications industries worldwide, a small number of operators own a majority of cable television systems and account for a significant portion of the capital spending made by cable telecommunications systems operators. The effects of FCC regulations requiring separation of security functionality from set tops could negatively impact our sales of set tops to cable providers. Historically, reception of digital television programming from a cable broadband network has required a set top with security technology. Traditionally, cable service providers sold or leased their set top to their customer. This security technology has limited the availability of set tops to those manufactured by a few cable network manufacturers, including Motorola. FCC regulations requiring separation of security functionality from set tops that are aimed at increasing competition and encouraging the sale of set tops in the retail market became effective for most customers in 2007. As the retail market develops for set tops and televisions capable of accepting the security modules, sales of our set tops to cable providers may be negatively impacted. In addition, a full two way security interface specification that allows retail customers access to all programming available on a cable operators network without the need for a set top box has been adopted by a few television manufacturers. They began shipping television sets that incorporate this capability in 2008. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within Motorola and some are outsourced. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally volatile securities markets, and the volatility in the telecommunications and technology companies securities markets in particular. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to, market expectations of our performance, spending plans of our customers, and the level of perceived growth in the industries in which we participate. The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS could impact our financial results. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. Failure of our suppliers to use acceptable ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our Table of Contents 30 reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of our inventory and expose us to financial obligations to a third party. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Copyright levies in numerous countries for the sale of products may adversely impact our business. Motorola faces the possibility of substantial copyright levies from collecting societies in numerous countries for the sale of products that might be used for the private copying of copyright protected works such as mobile phones, memory cards, and set top boxes. The collecting societies argue that such levies should apply to such products because they include audio/video recording functionality, such as an MP3 player or DVR or storage capability, despite the fact that such products are not primarily intended to act as a recording device. As of this date, to our knowledge, no copyright levies have been paid to any collecting societies anywhere by any manufacturer. Motorola is currently working with other major mobile communications companies to challenge the applicability of these levies to mobile phones, and is also engaged in aggressive lobbying efforts against the levies in general at the European Union level. However, if these levies are imposed, our financial results will be negatively impacted. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties Motorolas principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. Motorola also operates manufacturing facilities and sales offices in other U.S. locations and in many other countries. (See Item 1: Business for information regarding the location of the major facilities for each of Motorolas business segments.) Motorola owns 35 facilities (manufacturing, sales, service and office), 21 of which are located in the Americas Region (USA, Canada, Mexico and Latin America) and 14 of which are located in other countries. Motorola leases 321 facilities, 140 of which are located in the Americas Region and 181 of which are located in other countries. Motorola primarily utilizes 10 major facilities for the manufacturing and distribution of its products. These facilities are located in: Hangzhou and Tianjin, China; Taipei, Taiwan; Chennai, India; Penang, Malaysia; Schaumburg, Illinois; Jaguariuna, Brazil; Reynosa, Mexico; Arad, Israel; and Berlin, Germany. During 2008 and the beginning of 2009, facilities in: Flensburg, Germany; Bohemia, New York; Glen Rock, New Jersey; Beijing, China; and Taunesstein, Germany were sold. Sites at Chandler, Arizona; Arlington Heights, Illinois; and Nogales, Mexico are currently for sale. Motorola generally considers the productive capacity of the plants operated by each of its business segments to be adequate and sufficient for the requirements of each business group. The extent of utilization of such manufacturing facilities varies from plant to plant and from time to time during the year. A substantial portion of Motorolas products are manufactured in Asia, primarily China, either in our own facilities or in the facilities of others who manufacture and assemble products for Motorola. If manufacturing in the region was disrupted, Motorolas overall productive capacity could be significantly reduced. Item 3: Legal Proceedings Telsim Related Cases In April 2001, Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A.S. (Telsim), a wireless telephone operator in Turkey, defaulted on the payment of approximately $2 billion of loans owed to Motorola and its subsidiaries (the Telsim Loans). The Uzan family controlled Telsim until 2004 when an agency of the Turkish government took over control of Telsim. In December 2005, Telsim was sold by the Turkish government to Vodafone and Motorola received an aggregate payment from the sale of $910 million. The Company continues its efforts to collect on its judgment of $2.13 billion (the U.S. Judgment) for compensatory damages rendered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the District Court) against the Uzans on July 31, 2003 and affirmed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the Second Circuit) in 2004 and in connection with foreign proceedings against the Uzan family. However, the Company believes that the ongoing litigation, collection and or settlement processes against the Uzan Table of Contents 31 family will be very lengthy in light of the Uzans continued resistance to satisfy the judgments against them and their decision to violate various courts orders, including orders holding them in contempt of court. Following a remand from the Second Circuit of the U.S. Judgment, on February 8, 2006, the District Court awarded a judgment in favor of Motorola for $1 billion in punitive damages against the Uzan family and their co conspirator, Antonio Luna Bettancourt. That decision was affirmed by the Second Circuit on November 21, 2007. The District Court, on April 10, 2007, denied the Uzans motion to vacate the U.S. Judgment. The Uzans have appealed that decision to the Second Circuit. Howell v. Motorola, Inc., et al. A class action, Howell v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against Motorola and various of its directors, officers and employees in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (Illinois District Court) on July 21, 2003, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The complaint alleged that the defendants had improperly permitted participants in the Motorola 401(k) Plan (the Plan) to purchase or hold shares of common stock of Motorola because the price of Motorolas stock was artificially inflated by a failure to disclose vendor financing to Telsim in connection with the sale of telecommunications equipment by Motorola. The plaintiff sought to represent a class of participants in the Plan and sought an unspecified amount of damages. On September 30, 2005, the district court dismissed the second amended complaint filed on October 15, 2004 (the Howell Complaint). Three new purported lead plaintiffs have since intervened in the case, and have filed a motion for class certification seeking to represent a class of Plan participants. On September 28, 2007, the Illinois District Court granted the motion for class certification but narrowed the requested scope of the class. On October 25, 2007, the Illinois District Court modified the scope of the class, granted summary judgment dismissing two of the individually named defendants in light of the narrowed class, and ruled that the judgment as to the original named plaintiff, Howell, would be immediately appealable. The class as certified includes all Plan participants for whose individual accounts the Plan purchased and or held shares of Motorola common stock from May 16, 2000 through May 14, 2001, with certain exclusions. On February 15, 2008 plaintiffs and defendants each filed motions for summary judgment in the Illinois District Court. On February 22, 2008 the appellate court granted defendants motion for leave to appeal from the Illinois District Courts class certification decision. In addition, the original named plaintiff, Howell, has appealed the dismissal of his claim. Silverman/Williams Federal Securities Lawsuits and Related Derivative Matters A purported class action lawsuit on behalf of the purchasers of Motorola securities between July 19, 2006 and January 5, 2007, Silverman v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors of the Company on August 9, 2007, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b 5 as well as, in the case of the individual defendants, the control person provisions of the Securities Exchange Act. The factual assertions in the complaint consist primarily of the allegation that the defendants knowingly made incorrect statements concerning Motorolas projected revenues for the third and fourth quarter of 2006. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief relating to the purported inflation in the price of Motorola shares during the class period. An amended complaint was filed December 20, 2007 and Motorola moved to dismiss that complaint in February 2008. On September 24, 2008, the district court granted this motion in part to dismiss Section 10(b) claims as to two individuals and certain claims related to forward looking statements, among other things, and denied the motion in part. In addition, on August 24, 2007, two lawsuits were filed as purportedly derivative actions on behalf of Motorola, Williams v. Zander, et al., and Cinotto v. Zander, et al., in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. These complaints make similar factual allegations to those made in the Silverman complaint and assert causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment. The complaints seek unspecified damages associated with the alleged loss to the Company deriving from the defendants actions and demand that Motorola make a number of changes to its internal procedures. An amended complaint was filed on December 14, 2007. On January 27, 2009, Motorolas motion to dismiss the amended complaint was granted in part and denied in part. Table of Contents 32 In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation On December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in two cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation (the Adelphia MDL). The Adelphia MDL consists of at least fourteen individual cases and one purported class action that were filed in or have been transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. First, Motorola was named as a defendant in the Second Amended Complaint in the individual case of W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. v. Deloitte Touche LLP, et al. (the Huff Complaint). This case was originally filed by W.R. Huff Asset Management Co. L.L.C. on June 7, 2002, in the United States District Court for the Western District of New York and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as related to the Adelphia MDL. Motorola and several other individual and corporate defendants are named in the amended complaint. As to Motorola, the complaint alleges a claim arising under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder relating to Adelphia securities, and seeks recovery of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia debt securities, compensatory damages, costs and expenses of litigation and other relief. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss this complaint on March 8, 2004, which was granted on January 29, 2009. Plaintiffs motion to file an amended complaint is pending at this time. Also on December 22, 2003, Motorola was named as a defendant in Stocke v. John J. Rigas, et al. This case was originally filed in Pennsylvania and was subsequently transferred to the Southern District of New York as related to the Adelphia MDL. Motorola and several other individual and corporate defendants are named in the amended complaint. As to Motorola, the complaint generally makes the same allegations as the Huff Complaint and a state law claim of aiding and abetting fraud relating to Adelphia securities. The complaint seeks return of the consideration paid by plaintiff for Adelphia securities, punitive damages and other relief. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss this complaint on April 12, 2004. In March 2008, the Stocke plaintiff agreed to become a member of the purported class in Argent and the Stocke action was dismissed by the court as a stand alone action. On July 23, 2004, Motorola was named as a defendant in Argent Classic Convertible Arbitrage Fund L.P., et al. v. Scientific Atlanta, Inc., et al. (the Argent Complaint). The Argent Complaint was filed against Scientific Atlanta and Motorola in the Southern District of New York. The Argent Complaint generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have been transferred to the Southern District of New York. The complaint seeks compensatory damages and other relief. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the Argent Complaint on October 12, 2004, which is awaiting decision. On September 14, 2004, a complaint filed in state court in Los Angeles, California, named Motorola, Scientific Atlanta and certain officers of Scientific Atlanta as defendants, Los Angeles County Employees Retirement Association et al. v. Motorola, Inc., et al. The complaint raises claims under California law for aiding and abetting fraud and conspiracy to defraud and generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have been transferred to the Southern District of New York. There are no new substantive allegations. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, opportunity cost damages, punitive and other exemplary damages and other relief. In late 2004, the Multi District Litigation Panel transferred the case to federal court in New York, which transfer is now final. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in this action on September 19, 2005, which is awaiting decision. On October 25, 2004, Motorola was named in a complaint filed in state court in Fulton County, Georgia, naming Motorola and Scientific Atlanta and certain officers of Scientific Atlanta, AIG DKR SoundShore Holdings, Ltd., et al. v. Scientific Atlanta Inc., et al. The complaint raises claims under Georgia law of conspiracy to defraud and generally makes the same allegations as the other previously disclosed cases relating to the In re Adelphia Communications Corp. Securities and Derivative Litigation that have already been filed and transferred to the Southern District of New York. The complaint seeks damages and statutory compensation, punitive damages and other relief. On April 18, 2005, the Multi District Litigation Panel issued a final order transferring the case to New York and that transfer is final. Motorola filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in this action on September 19, 2005, which is awaiting decision. Adelphia Communications Corp. Bankruptcy Court Lawsuit On June 23, 2006, Adelphia, on behalf of the estate and the various classes of Adelphia creditors, objected to Motorolas claim for payment of $67 million and asserted causes of action against Motorola including preferences, Table of Contents 33 avoidance of liens, fraudulent transfers, equitable subordination and aiding and abetting fraud as part of the ongoing Adelphia bankruptcy action in the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Plaintiff is alleging damages in excess of $1 billion against Motorola for the above stated causes of action. The bankruptcy action is still pending. Intellectual Property Related Cases Tessera, Inc. v. Motorola, Inc., et al. Motorola is a purchaser of semiconductor chips with certain ball grid array (BGA) packaging from suppliers including Qualcomm, Inc. (Qualcomm), Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (Freescale Semiconductor), ATI Technologies, Inc. (ATI), Spansion Inc. (Spansion), and STMicroelectronics N.V. (STMicro). On April 17, 2007, Tessera, Inc. (Tessera) filed patent infringement legal actions against Qualcomm, Freescale Semiconductor, ATI, Spansion, STMicro and Motorola in the U.S. International Trade Commission (the ITC) (In the Matter of Certain Semiconductor Chips with Minimized Chip Package Size and Products Containing Same, Inv. No. 337 TA 605) and the United States District Court, Eastern District of Texas, Tessera, Inc. v. Motorola, Inc., Qualcomm, Inc., Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. and ATI Technologies, Inc., alleging that certain BGA packaged semiconductors infringe patents that Tessera claims to own. Tessera is seeking orders to ban the importation into the U.S. of certain semiconductor chips with BGA packaging and certain downstream products that contain them (including Motorola products) and or limit suppliers ability to provide certain services and products or take certain actions in the U.S. relating to the packaged chips. On December 1, 2008, an Administrative Law Judge issued an initial determination that Tessera failed to prove that BGA packaged semiconductors contained in Motorola products infringe Tesseras patent claims. On January 30, 2009, the International Trade Commission issued a notice that it will review the Administrative Law Judges initial determination and a final determination on the merits is expected on or before April 14, 2009. The patent claims being asserted by Tessera are subject to reexamination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO). Motorola is a defendant in various other suits, claims and investigations that arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, and other than discussed above with respect to the Iridium cases, the ultimate disposition of the Companys pending legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Table of Contents 34 Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Following are the persons who were the executive officers of Motorola as of February 28, 2009, their ages as of January 1, 2009, their current titles and positions they have held during the last five years: Gregory Q. Brown; age 48; Co Chief Executive Officer, Motorola, Inc. and Chief Executive Officer of Broadband Mobility Solutions since August 2008; President and Chief Executive Officer, Motorola, Inc. from January 2008 to August 2008; President and Chief Operating Officer from June 2007 to January 2008; Executive Vice President, President, Networks and Enterprise from June 2006 to June 2007; Executive Vice President and President, Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions from January 2005 to June 2006; Executive Vice President and President, Commercial, Government and Industrial Solutions Sector from January 2003 to January 2005. Dr. Sanjay K. Jha; age 45; Co Chief Executive Officer, Motorola, Inc. and Chief Executive Officer, Mobile Devices since August 2008; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Qualcomm, Inc. from December 2006 to August 2008; Executive Vice President, Qualcomm, Inc. and President, Qualcomm CDMA Technologies from January 2003 to December 2006. Eugene A. Delaney; age 52; Executive Vice President, President, Enterprise Mobility Solutions since January 2009; Senior Vice President, Government and Public Safety from May 2007 to January 2009; Senior Vice President, International Sales Operations, Networks and Enterprise from May 2006 to May 2007; Senior Vice President, International Sales Operations, Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions from May 2005 to May 2006; Executive Vice President and President, Global Relations and Resources Organization, Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions from February 2005 to May 2005; Executive Vice President and President, Global Relations and Resources Organization from January 2003 to February 2005. Edward J. Fitzpatrick; age 42; Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Acting Chief Financial Officer since February 2009; Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller since January 2009; Corporate Vice President, Finance, Home and Networks Mobility from January 2008 to January 2009; Vice President, Finance, Home and Networks Mobility from June 2007 to January 2008; Vice President, Finance and Controller, Networks and Enterprise from April 2006 to June 2007; Vice President, Finance and Controller, Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions from July 2005 to April 2006; Senior Director and Controller, Connected Home Solutions from February 2000 to July 2005. A. Peter Lawson; age 62; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 1998. Gregory A. Lee; age 59; Senior Vice President, Human Resources since January 2008; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Coca Cola Enterprises from August 2006 to January 2008; Independent Consultant, Talent Management Strategies from May 2005 to August 2006; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Sears, Roebuck and Co., from January 2001 to May 2005. Daniel M. Moloney; age 49; Executive Vice President, President, Home and Networks Mobility since April 2007; Executive Vice President, President, Connected Home Solutions from January 2005 to April 2007; Executive Vice President and President, Broadband Communications Sector from June 2002 to January 2005. Karen P. Tandy; age 55; Senior Vice President, Public Affairs and Communications since July 2008; Senior Vice President, Global Government Affairs Public Policy from November 2007 to July 2008; Administrator to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency from July 2003 to November 2007. The above executive officers will serve as executive officers of Motorola until the regular meeting of the Board of Directors in May 2009 or until their respective successors shall have been elected. There is no family relationship between any of the executive officers listed above. Table of Contents 35 PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Motorolas common stock is listed on the New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges. The number of stockholders of record of Motorola common stock on January 31, 2009 was 76,858. Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to the information under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information of Motorolas Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The remainder of the response to this Item incorporates by reference Note 17, Quarterly and Other Financial Data (unaudited) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing under 
 
