Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 1A: Risk Factors of this document. Available Information We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorolasolutions.com/investor, our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SECs website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents: Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines Motorola Solutions, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer) Audit and Legal Committee Charter Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter Governance and Nominating Committee Charter All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E mail: investors@motorolasolutions.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10 K and Definitive Proxy Statement may also be requested in hardcopy by clicking on Printed Materials at www.motorolasolutions.com/investor. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Table of Contents 12 Item 1A: Risk Factors We wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this report or in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. We are at risk that the sale of the majority of our Networks infrastructure assets is further delayed or does not close. We face risks and uncertainties related to the sale of a majority of our Networks infrastructure assets to Nokia Siemens Networks B.V. (NSN), which includes: (i) our ability to satisfy the conditions to closing, including (a) receipt of China antitrust approval, (b) the absence of any judgment, writ or order preventing the sale or other legal proceeding which is likely to render it impossible or unlawful to consummate the sale, and (c) the absence of a material adverse effect on the assets being sold by us; (ii) each company having the ability to consummate the transaction; (iii) the impact on our performance and financial results deriving from the benefits from this transaction; and (iv) the expected timeline for completing the transaction. The closing of such sale has been delayed beyond our initial expectations due to a delay in receipt of China antitrust approval. In addition, we are currently engaged in litigation with Huawei, a Chinese competitor of our Networks business, who filed for a preliminary injunction seeking to enjoin the transfer of certain product lines, employees, and its confidential information to NSN in connection with the sale of our Networks business. We are currently subject to a temporary restraining order which prohibits the transfer of Huawei confidential information to NSN and are waiting on the courts ruling on the preliminary injunction motion. There can be no assurance that the sale will be completed. If the sale is not completed as currently contemplated it may impact our ability to execute on our long term strategic plan. There are various other uncertainties and risks relating to this proposed sale that could have, and in some cases have had, a negative impact on our business operations, operating results or assets, including: (i) the distraction of management and disruption of operations; (ii) difficulties in recruiting and retaining employees in the Networks business; (iii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction that have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers, suppliers, vendors and partners and resulting in the loss of business opportunities; (iv) interference by certain competitors with certain customers, and (v) the process of completing the sale has been time consuming and expensive. Our financial results have been and could further be negatively impacted if sales of our Networks infrastructure equipment continue to decline in response to our agreement to sell the majority of our Networks infrastructure assets. We have experienced declines in the sale of certain of our Networks infrastructure equipment as a result of the announcement of our agreement to sell the majority of our Networks infrastructure assets to NSN. Our future financial results could be further negatively impacted if sales of our Networks infrastructure equipment continue to decline in response to our pending sale. We expect to operate the Networks business until the closing of the sale to NSN and the Companys financial results could be further negatively impacted if sales are not at expected levels due to perceived uncertainty as a result of the pending sale. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions makes budgeting and forecasting very difficult and may reduce demand for our products. Current conditions in the domestic and world economies remain uncertain. This is particularly true of U.S. governmental customers budgetary conditions. As a result of global economic conditions, U.S. unemployment levels and ongoing political conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted worldwide markets. As a result, it is difficult to estimate changes in various parts of the U.S. and world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures difficult. We have engineering resources in Israel that could be disrupted as a result of hostilities in the region. We also sell our products and services throughout the Middle East and demand for our products and services could be negatively impacted by political conflicts and hostilities in this region. The potential for future unrest, terrorist Table of Contents 13 attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products. We continue to face a number of risks related to current global economic conditions, including adverse credit conditions, low economic growth, risk of sovereign defaults and high levels of unemployment. Global economic conditions and financial markets continue to be challenging to the government and enterprise communications market, as many economies and financial markets remain in a recession resulting from a number of factors, including adverse credit conditions, low economic growth rates, risk of sovereign defaults, particularly in certain European countries, continuing high rates of unemployment, reduced corporate capital spending and other factors. Economic growth in the U.S. and many other countries has remained very low and the length of time these adverse economic conditions may persist are unknown. These global economic conditions have impacted and could continue to impact our business in a number of ways, including: Potential Deferment or Cancellation of Purchases and Orders by Customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause, and in some cases has caused businesses and governments to defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit and decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. If future demand for our products declines due to global economic conditions, it will negatively impact our financial results. Customers Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from Motorola Solutions and or Maintain Their Business: Some of our customers require substantial financing, including public financing or government grants, in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit or other funds to finance purchases of our products and or meet their payment obligations to us could have, and in some cases has had, a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, if global economic conditions result in insolvencies for our customers, it will negatively impact our financial results. Requests by Customers for Vendor Financing by Motorola Solutions: Certain of the Companys customers, particularly, but not limited to, those who purchase large infrastructure systems, request that their suppliers provide financing in connection with equipment purchases. In response to limited availability of financing from banks and other lenders, these types of requests have increased in volume and scope. Motorola Solutions, particularly in its Networks business, has continued to provide financing in light of these requests and a continuation of the credit market dislocation could force us to choose between further increasing our level of vendor financing or potentially losing sales to these customers. Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Third Party Dealers, Distributors and Retailers: We make sales in certain regions through third party dealers, distributors and retailers. Although many of these third parties have significant operations and maintain access to available credit, others are smaller and more likely to be impacted by the significant decrease in available credit that resulted from the financial crisis and continues today. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for important third parties and we are unable to successfully transition end customers to purchase our products from other third parties or from us directly, it may cause, and in some cases has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key Suppliers: Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain single source or limited source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and negatively impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at single source suppliers have resulted in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. If this trend continues, it will negatively impact our cash flow. Increased Risk of Financial Counterparty Failures Could Negatively Impact our Financial Position: The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its overall exposure to the effects of currency fluctuations on cash flows. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to these derivative financial instruments. Although the contracts are distributed among several Table of Contents 14 leading financial institutions, all of whom presently have investment grade credit ratings, the default by one or more counterparty could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Returns on Pension and Retirement Plan Assets and Interest Rate Changes Could Affect Our Earnings and Cash Flow in Future Periods: The funding position of our pension plans is affected by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and the interest rates used to calculate our pension obligations for funding and expense purposes. Annual pension contributions are determined under government regulations and determined based upon our pension funding status, interest rates, and other factors. If the financial markets perform poorly, we could be required to make additional large contributions. The equity markets can be volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can affect our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of higher contributions in the future increases. Following the sale of our Networks infrastructure assets we will retain certain promissory notes and other obligations relating to vendor financing, but will no longer have a customer/vendor relationship with the borrowers, which may put us at increased risk for defaults. Certain of the customers of our Networks business who purchase large infrastructure systems request that their suppliers provide financing in connection with equipment purchases. We will retain any promissory notes or other obligations related to such vendor financing that was consummated up to the closing of the sale of our Networks business. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding amount was approximately $235 million. As we will no longer have a customer/vendor relationship with the borrowers following the sale we could be at increased risk of a default by such customers, as they may choose to pay their current vendors before they pay us. In addition, a majority of these customers operate in the Middle East and could be negatively impacted by political unrest in this region. The Companys credit rating could impact our ability to access the capital markets. The Company is rated middle triple B by two of the three national rating agencies and low triple B, under review for upgrade, by the third rating agency. Any downward changes by the rating agencies to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. Under certain circumstances, if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, an increase in the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility could result. In addition, a downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our ability to: access the debt markets; provide performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds; hedge foreign exchange risk; fund our foreign affiliates; and sell receivables. A downgrade in our credit rating could also result in less favorable trade terms with suppliers. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. Any future disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets may result in higher funding costs for the Company and adversely affect our ability to access funds and other credit related products. Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. We face intense competition in these markets and new products are expensive to develop and bring to market. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products and upgrades of current products to comply with emerging industry standards and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our competitors. The research and development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology and market trends. Many of our products and systems are complex and we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products or technologies in the future. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted or are not commercially viable. In addition, our products may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment. If our products are not competitive or do not work properly, our business will suffer. Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products, such as integrated digital radios and integrated public safety systems. These risks include: (i) difficulties Table of Contents 15 and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products; (ii) customer acceptance of products; (iii) the development of, approval of, and compliance with industry standards; (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technologies; and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets. We are exposed to risks under large multi year system contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large multi year system contracts with large municipal, state and nation wide government customers. This exposes us to risks, including: (i) the technological risks of such contracts, especially when the contracts involve new technology, and (ii) financial risks under these contracts, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large contracts and the related impact on operating results. We are also facing increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated. Political developments also can impact the nature and timing of these large contracts. In addition, multi year awards from governmental customers may often only receive partial funding initially. The termination of funding for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, we are increasingly being asked by our government customers to provide managed services, which require that we partner with other systems providers, often through the formation of a multi year joint venture, to design, construct, manage and operate a public safety system. Such public private partnerships may require us to assume the risk and agree to specific performance metrics that meet the customers requirement for network availability, reliability, maintenance and support. In certain cases if these performance metrics are not met we may not be paid. Depending on the nature of such projects, which are referred to as build own operate (BOO) and in some cases maintain (BOOM) or transfer (BOOT), we may be unable to recognize revenue from the sale of equipment for a period of time, which may be several years. Such BOO, BOOM and BOOT arrangements shift risk to us and may result in an adverse impact on our profitability if we are unable to meet the requirements of such contracts. A portion of our business is dependent upon U.S. Government contracts and grants, which are highly regulated and subject to oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives and subject to cancellations. Such audits could result in adverse findings and negatively impact our business. Our government business is subject to specific procurement regulations with numerous compliance requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracting, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs may increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect our on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time, and the inability to receive future grants. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs, and foreign corruption. Generally, U.S. Government contracts and grants are subject to oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contracts or grants. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract or grant may not be allowed, and such costs already reimbursed may have to be refunded. Future audits and adjustments, if required, may materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit findings could also result in investigations, termination of a contract or grant, forfeiture of profits or reimbursements, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. All contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the U.S. Government. We derive a portion of our revenue from government customers who award business through competitive bidding which can involve significant upfront costs and risks. This effort may not result in awards of business or we may fail to accurately estimate the costs to fulfill contracts awarded to us, which could have adverse consequences on our future profitability. Some government customers award business through a competitive bidding process, which results in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. The competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids for contracts that may not be awarded to us. Even if we are awarded contracts, we Table of Contents 16 may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill a contract, which could negatively impact the profitability of any contract award to us. In addition, following any contract award, we may experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of customer delay or our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of public safety broadband systems or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors. Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. The growth of public safety broadband communications systems may be affected: (i) by regulations relating to the access to allocated spectrum for public safety users, (ii) if adequate frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth may also be affected by new licenses fees required to use frequencies. The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing new wireless communications technologies to be developed and offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network systems, such as WiFi, mesh technologies and wide area network systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other technologies. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new opportunities for the Company. The U.S. is currently contemplating allocating the 10 MHz in the 700 MHz spectrum block the so called D block spectrum to public safety. Alternatively the D block spectrum may be auctioned to commercial carriers, as has been advocated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Failure to allocate the D block spectrum to public safety could negatively impact our ability to provide next generation public safety communications systems in the U.S. and, as a result, negatively impact our business. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and more than 40% of our revenue is generated by customers outside the U.S. In addition, we have a number of manufacturing, research and development, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and more than 50% of our employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our suppliers operations are outside the U.S. and most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. As with all companies that have sizeable sales and operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to: (i) import/export regulations, tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs classifications and certifications, including but not limited to changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to such classifications and certifications; (ii) changes in U.S. and non U.S. rules related to trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection; (iii) longer payment cycles; (iv) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., obligations under tax incentive agreements, difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner and difficulties in securing local country approvals for cash repatriations; (v) currency fluctuations, particularly in the Chinese Renminbi, Euro, Malaysian Ringgit and the British Pound; (vi) foreign exchange regulations, which may limit the Companys ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency; (vii) challenges in collecting accounts receivable; (viii) cultural and language differences; (ix) employment regulations and local labor conditions; (x) difficulties protecting IP in foreign countries; (xi) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; (xii) natural disasters; (xiii) public health issues or outbreaks; (xiv) changes in laws or regulations that negatively impact benefits being received by the Company; (xv) the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements; and (xvi) litigation in foreign court systems and foreign administrative proceedings. Many of our products that are manufactured outside the U.S. are manufactured in Asia (primarily Malaysia) and Latin America (primarily Mexico). If manufacturing in these regions is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the legal system in China is still developing and this and other legal systems around the world are subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in China could be negatively impacted by changes to, or interpretation of, Chinese law. Table of Contents 17 We also have a presence in emerging markets such as India. We face additional challenges in emerging markets, including creating demand for our products and the negative impact of changes in the laws, or the interpretation of the laws, in those countries. We also are subject to risks that our operations outside the U.S. could be conducted by our employees, contractors, representatives or agents in ways that violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti bribery laws. While we have policies and procedures to comply with these laws, our employees, contractors, representatives and agents may take actions that violate our policies. Any such violations could have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, we face additional risks that our anti bribery policy and procedures may be violated by third party sales representatives or other agents that help sell our products or provide other services, because such representatives or agents are not our employees and it may be more difficult to oversee their conduct. Changes in our operations or sales outside the U.S. markets could result in lost benefits in impacted countries and increase our cost of doing business. The Company has entered into various agreements with non U.S. governments, agencies or similar organizations under which the Company receives certain benefits relating to its operations and or sales in the jurisdiction. If the Companys circumstances change and operations or sales are not at levels originally anticipated, including as a result of obligations undertaken prior to the Separation of Motorola Mobility which cannot be fulfilled, the Company may be at risk of having to reimburse benefits already granted, and losing some or all of these benefits and increasing our cost of doing business. Changes in our effective tax rate may have a negative impact on earnings. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may be negatively impacted by changes in the mix of earnings taxable in jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws and accounting principles, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, failure to meet commitments under tax incentive agreements, discovery of new information during the course of tax return preparation, increases in nondeductible expenses, or difficulties in repatriating cash held abroad in a tax efficient manner. Tax audits may also negatively impact our effective tax rate. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns, and tax authorities may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional tax. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have a negative impact on future operating results. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted. Some of the products we sell may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such pre shipment and post shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer imposed penalties on us for failure to meet contractual requirements, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation. In some cases, if the quality issue affects the products safety or regulatory compliance, then such a defective product may need to be recalled. Depending on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the field, it could cause the Company to incur substantial recall costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders and the damage to the Companys goodwill or brand reputation. In addition, the Company may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue that the Company receives from the contracts. In certain jurisdictions when contracting with the government no limitation to liability is permitted by law. Recalls involving regulatory agencies could also result in fines and additional costs. Finally, recalls could result in third party litigation by persons alleging harm, resulting from the use of the products. Table of Contents 18 Many of our components and products are designed or manufactured by third parties and if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties, it may have a negative impact on our business. We rely on third parties to design or manufacture many of our components and finished products. We could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline if (i) we are not able to engage such manufacturers with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, (ii) such third parties lack sufficient quality control and fail to deliver quality components or products on time and at reasonable prices, (iii) if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties. We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts and the inability of our subcontractors to perform could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. We engage subcontractors on many of our contracts. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure of our suppliers to use acceptable ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of our inventory and expose us to financial obligations to a third party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to form successful strategic alliances. If these arrangements do not develop as expected, our business may be negatively impacted. We currently partner with industry leaders and other large organizations to meet customer product and service requirements and to develop innovative advances in design and technology. Some of our partnerships allow us to supplement internal manufacturing capacity and share the cost of developing next generation technologies. Other partnerships allow us to offer more services and features to our customers. However, such arrangements carry an element of risk because, in many cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a partnership and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. If such arrangements do not develop as expected, our business could be negatively impacted. We rely on third party distributors, representatives and retailers to sell certain of our products. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third party distributors, representatives and retailers. Our distributors or representatives may also market other products that compete with our products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers, could affect our ability to bring products to market. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components to meet the demands of our customers and any reduction or interruption in supplies or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our business. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. If demand for our products increases from our current expectations, we could experience shortages. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid shortages, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter shortages in the future or that such shortages will not negatively impact our operations. Table of Contents 19 Furthermore, certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, our current contractual arrangements with certain suppliers may be cancelled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford the Company with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these single source or limited source suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate the Company for any damages we may suffer. We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights. Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers and or our suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, (ii) the intellectual property indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover damages and losses due to infringement of third party intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) we are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities to our customers, (iv) our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, or (v) our competitors negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property. We may be harmed if we are forced to make publicly available, under the relevant open source licenses, certain internally developed software related intellectual property as a result of either our use of open source software code or the use of third party software that contains open source code. Because our products are comprised of complex technology, much of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or impacted by assertions, including both requests for licenses and litigation, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our customers and suppliers. These assertions against the Company, and its customers and suppliers have been increasing as the complexity of our products have increased. While many of these claims were directed at our former Mobile Devices and Home businesses, we still retain risk of such claims including with respect to actions filed against us prior to the Distribution of Motorola Mobility which crossed our respective businesses. Many of these assertions are brought by non practicing entities whose principle business model is to secure patent licensing based revenue from product manufacturing companies. The patentees often make broad and sweeping claims regarding the applicability of their patents to our products, seeking a percentage of sales as licenses fees, seeking injunctions to pressure us into taking a license, or a combination thereof. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Increasingly, third parties have sought broad injunctive relief which could limit our ability to sell our products in the U.S. or elsewhere with intellectual property subject to the claims. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation, each of which could have a negative impact on our financial results. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or supplier are subject to a final injunction. We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations or that a suppliers indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers due to the infringing products or that a supplier will choose to accept a license or modify or replace its products with non infringing products which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, the Company may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any ultimate resolution or outcome that may negatively impact our sales if a court enters an injunction that enjoins the suppliers products or if the International Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks our products from importation into the U.S. The frequency with which intellectual property disputes involving our suppliers have resulted in our involvement in International Trade Commission proceedings has increased. These proceedings are costly and entail the risk that we will be subjected to a ban on the importation of our products into the U.S. solely as a result of our use of a suppliers components. In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from intellectual property litigation against them. Table of Contents 20 Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property as proprietary and attempt to protect them with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new areas may not be as developed as in our longer standing businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new markets. Further, competitors may be able to negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property than we are able to, which puts them at a competitive advantage. While the businesses that are a part of Motorola Solutions have historically experienced lower intellectual property related risks than have other businesses that were transferred with Motorola Mobility, as the products of Motorola Solutions become more like the products of those other businesses, through the adoption of industry standard technologies, for instance, the intellectual property related risks experienced by Motorola Solutions may increase. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (iii) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (iv) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (v) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (vi) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (vii) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (viii) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (ix) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. Acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on their earnings) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher valuation than Motorola Solutions may be dilutive to our earnings, especially if the acquired business has little or no revenue. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near term earnings and have, in the past, foregone certain of these acquisitions. Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of change in control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be difficult to retain certain key employees. We may be required to record additional goodwill or other long lived asset impairment charges, which could result in an additional significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in the Companys stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. No goodwill or long lived assets impairment charges were recorded during 2010 or 2009. During 2008, the Company recorded goodwill impairment charges of $1.6 billion. The goodwill impairment charges resulted from lower asset values in the overall market and the impact of the Table of Contents 21 macroenvironment on the Companys near term forecasts. Declines in the Companys stock price or reductions in the Companys future cash flow estimates and future operating results may require the Company to record significant additional goodwill or other long lived asset impairment charges in our financial statements in future periods, which could negatively impact our financial results. It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of engineers and other highly skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive. Competition for key technical personnel in high technology industries is intense. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel needed to develop successful new products. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly skilled personnel. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, retain and prepare succession plans for senior management and key employees. The performance of our CEO, senior management and other key employees is critical to our success. If we are unable to retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees or attract them when needed, it could negatively impact the Company. We rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace and competition for management with experience in the communications industry is intense. A loss of the CEO, a member of senior management or key employee particularly to a competitor could also place us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our CEO, senior management and other key employees, the Company could be negatively impacted. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation or administrative action could negatively impact the Company. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti bribery laws. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance we are forced to retain the risk. The Company has many types of insurance coverage and also self insures for some risks and obligations. While the cost and availability of most insurance is stable, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain difficult to obtain. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims and public liability are potential self insured events that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident or claim. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and or sell are subject to a wide range of global laws. Compliance with existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to certain substances. In the United States, laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault and often times in response to action or omissions that were legal at the time they occurred. The Company continues to incur disposal costs and has ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to U.S. environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Laws focused on: the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium ion batteries and other aspects are also proliferating. Table of Contents 22 These laws impact our products and negatively affects our competitive ability to manufacture and sell products. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. We may be unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components and parts that are free of minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which could result in a shortage of such components and parts or reputational damages if we are unable to certify that our products are free of such minerals. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures regarding a manufacturers efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. While final rules implementing these requirements are not expected from the SEC until April 2011, the implementation of these requirements may limit the pool of suppliers who can provide us DRC Conflict Free components and parts, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities that meet the DRC Conflict Free designation as proposed by the requirements. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, other stockholders and the activist community if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the defined conflict metals used in our products. Changes in government policies and laws, funding or economic conditions may negatively impact our financial results. Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. In particular, the financial results of our government business may be negatively impacted by any decreases in the level of government funding, including availability of grants, for public safety projects. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our operations, including in emerging markets in Asia, India, Latin America and Eastern Europe, and in markets subject to ongoing political hostilities and war, including the Middle East. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption could have a negative impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within the Company and some are outsourced. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally volatile securities markets, the volatility in the telecommunications and technology companies securities markets in particular and the Distribution of Motorola Mobility. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to, market expectations of our performance, spending plans of our customers and the level of perceived growth in the industries in which we participate. We have a large cost overhang resulting from the Distribution of Motorola Mobility and must take additional cost reduction actions. Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such actions on our business beyond those already taken may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost reduction actions, in turn, may expose us to additional production risk and have a negative impact on our sales, profitability and ability to attract and retain employees. The Distribution of Motorola Mobility has resulted in costs that were formerly allocated to Motorola Mobility being absorbed by Motorola Solutions. The majority of the overhang costs have been or are planned to be eliminated from Motorola Solutions through cost reduction activities. Table of Contents 23 The impact of these cost reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: (i) our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts; (ii) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete; (iii) delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia; (iv) decline in employee morale and the potential inability to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees; and (v) our ability to retain or recruit key employees. As part of the Distribution of Motorola Mobility we have consolidated or exited certain facilities and our products are designed and manufactured in fewer facilities than in the past. While we have business continuity and risk management plans in place in case capacity is significantly reduced or eliminated at a given facility, the reduced number of alternative facilities could cause the duration of any manufacturing disruption to be longer. As a result, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline. Following the Distribution of Motorola Mobility we are a smaller, more focused company and may be more susceptible to market fluctuations, other adverse events, increased costs and less favorable purchasing terms. As a large company we were able to enjoy certain benefits from operating diversity and purchasing leverage. Following the Distribution of Motorola Mobility we are a smaller company and operate in more focused industries. As a result there is a risk that we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have otherwise been were we still a part of a larger and more operationally diverse company. In particular, we are more susceptible to reductions in government and corporate spending as a result of our focus on government and enterprise customers. We may also experience increased costs and less favorable terms as a result of our inability to continue to leverage the purchasing spend of our former Mobile Devices and Home businesses. Prior to the Distribution of Motorola Mobility we negotiated favorable pricing terms with many of our suppliers, some of which have volume based pricing. In the future, as we establish new pricing terms, our reduced volume demand could negatively impact future pricing from suppliers. All of these outcomes may result in our products being more costly to manufacture and less competitive. Although we cannot predict the extent of any such increased costs, it is possible that such costs could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Motorola Mobility did not assume any of the liabilities associated with our existing public market debt, any of the U.S. pension liabilities, a majority of our non U.S. pension plans or certain corporate litigation matters and we continue to bear all of the risk for these liabilities following liabilities Separation of Motorola Mobility. We contributed $3.2 billion of cash and cash equivalents to capitalize Motorola Mobility at the time of the Separation and have an obligation to fund an additional $300 million, upon receipt of cash distributions as a result of future capital reductions of an overseas subsidiary. We remain liable for all of our existing public market debt, all of the U.S. pension liabilities, the majority of our non U.S. pension liabilities and certain corporate litigation matters and Motorola Mobility did not provide us with any indemnification for these matters. Although we cannot fully predict the extent of these liabilities, it is possible that they could be significant and could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Following the Distribution of Motorola Mobility, a larger percentage of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside of the United States and we could be subject to repatriation delays and costs which could reduce our financial flexibility. A substantial percentage of the cash and cash equivalents that we contributed to Motorola Mobility were paid in the United States, which reduced the amount of our U.S. cash and cash equivalents and, therefore, increased the percentage of cash and cash equivalents held by the Company or its subsidiaries in other countries when compared to the pre Separation levels. While the Company regularly repatriates funds with minimal adverse financial impact, repatriation of some of the funds has been and could continue to be subject to delay for local country approvals and could have potential adverse tax consequences. As a result of having a lower amount of the cash and cash equivalents in the U.S. post the contribution to Motorola Mobility, our financial flexibility is reduced. Table of Contents 24 In connection with the Distribution of Motorola Mobility, Motorola Mobility indemnified us for certain liabilities and we indemnified Motorola Mobility for certain liabilities. This indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by Motorola Mobility and Motorola Mobility may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future. Pursuant to the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement and certain other agreements with Motorola Mobility, Motorola Mobility agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify Motorola Mobility for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts. There can be no assurance that the indemnity from Motorola Mobility will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Motorola Mobility will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Motorola Mobility has agreed to assume. Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Motorola Mobility any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. In addition, indemnities that we may be required to provide Motorola Mobility are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For more detailed information, see the Amended and Restated Master Separation and Distribution Agreement which was filed as an exhibit to our Form 10 Q for the third quarter 2010. We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives and formatives thereof (Motorola Marks) and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Mobility. Our joint use of the Motorola Marks could result in product and market confusion and negatively impact our ability to expand our business under the Motorola brand. In addition, if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement we could lose our rights to the Motorola Marks. We have a worldwide, perpetual and royalty free license from Motorola Mobility to use the Motorola Marks as part of our corporate name and in connection with the manufacture, sale, and marketing of our current products and services. The license of the Motorola Marks is important to us because of the reputation of the Motorola brand for our products and services. Although we will continue to be able to use the Motorola Marks in certain fields of use we no longer own the Motorola Marks after the Distribution of Motorola Mobility. There are risks associated with both Motorola Mobility and the Company using the Motorola Marks and with this loss of ownership. Because both Motorola Mobility and the Company will be using the Motorola Marks, confusion could arise in the market, including customer and investor confusion regarding the products offered by and the actions of the two companies. This risk could increase as both Motorola Mobilitys and our products continue to converge. Also, any negative publicity associated with either company in the future could adversely affect the public image of the other. In addition because our license of the Motorola Marks will be limited to products and services within our specified fields of use, we will not be permitted to use the Motorola Marks in other fields of use without the approval of Motorola Mobility. In the event that we desire to expand our business into any other fields of use, we may need to do so with a brand other than Motorola. Developing a brand as well known and with as much brand equity as Motorola could take considerable time and expense. The risk of needing to develop a second brand increases as Motorola Mobilitys and our products continue to converge and as our business expands into other fields of use. In addition, we could lose our rights to use the Motorola Marks if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, Motorola Mobility has the right to license the brand to third parties and either Motorola Mobility or licensed third parties may use the brand in ways that make the brand less attractive for customers of Motorola Solutions, creating increased risk that Motorola Solutions may need to develop an alternate or additional brand. A change of control of or bankruptcy of Motorola Mobility could result in an incompatible third party owning the Motorola Marks or the loss of certain rights, including the license. Since Motorola Mobility owns the Motorola Marks, in the event Motorola Mobility is acquired, the acquiring entity would gain control of the Motorola Marks. Similarly, in the event of a liquidation of Motorola Mobility it is possible that a bankruptcy court would permit the Motorola Marks to be assigned to a third party. While our right to use the Motorola Marks under our license should continue in our specified field of use in such situations, it is possible that we could be party to a license arrangement with a third party whose interests are incompatible with ours, thereby potentially making the license arrangement difficult to administer, and increasing the costs and risks Table of Contents 25 associated with sharing the Motorola Marks. In addition, there is a risk that, in the event of a bankruptcy of Motorola Mobility, Motorola Mobility or its bankruptcy trustee may attempt to reject the license, or a bankruptcy court may refuse to uphold the license or certain of its terms. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We contributed a significant portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, to Motorola Mobility and we are unable to leverage these intellectual property rights as we did prior to the Distribution of Motorola Mobility. We contributed approximately 17,200 granted patents and approximately 8,000 pending patent applications worldwide to Motorola Mobility in connection with the Distribution. Although we will have a perpetual, royalty free license to these patents and other intellectual property rights, we no longer own them. As a result we will be unable to leverage these intellectual property rights for purposes of generating licensing revenue or entering into favorable licensing arrangements with third parties. As a result we may incur increased license fees or litigation costs. Although we cannot predict the extent of such unanticipated costs, it is possible such costs could negatively impact our financial results. These risks will increase if we are unable to complete the sale of our Networks business. Some contracts which were assigned from us or our affiliates to Motorola Mobility or its affiliates in connection with the Separation require the consent or involvement of the counterparty to such an assignment, many of which have not yet been obtained. Failure to obtain consents with or a termination of the agreement by any of our large customers or suppliers, or interference by such customers or suppliers with such an assignment, could negatively impact our financial condition and future results of operations. The Master Separation and Distribution Agreement and various local transfer agreements provide that in connection with the Separation of Motorola Mobility from us, a number of contracts with customers, suppliers, landlords and other third parties were assigned from us or our affiliates to Motorola Mobility or Motorola Mobilitys affiliates. However, some of these contracts require the contractual counterpartys consent to such an assignment. Similarly, in some circumstances, our former Mobile Devices and or Home business and another of our business units were joint beneficiaries of contracts, and Motorola Mobility or we will need to enter into a new agreement with the third party to replicate the contract or assign the portion of the contract related to our respective businesses. Because of the volume of agreements which require consent to assign, replicate or replace, this process will not be completed for some time. It is possible that some parties may use the requirement of a consent to seek more favorable contractual terms from us or seek to terminate the contract. If we are unable to complete the assignments in a timely manner, we may remain primarily liable for contracts that should have been assigned to Motorola Mobility, may be required to enter into new agreements at significantly less favorable terms or may find our contracts terminated. The failure to complete the assignment of existing contracts, or the negotiation of new agreements, with any of our large customers or key suppliers (including those that are single source or limited source suppliers), or a termination of any of those arrangements, could negatively impact our financial condition and future results of operations. Completion of the Distribution of Motorola Mobility may not enhance long term shareholder value. We completed the Distribution of Motorola Mobility on January 4, 2011. At the time of this distribution, our board and management team, after consultation with independent financial and legal advisors, believed that the Distribution of Motorola Mobility as planned would enhance long term shareholder value. There can be no assurance, however, that the combined value of our common stock and the common stock of Motorola Mobility will equal or exceed what the value of our common stock would have been in the absence of the Distribution in the long term. The combined value of the common stock of the two companies following the Distribution could be lower than anticipated for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the inability of Motorola Mobility to compete effectively as an independent company, realignment of the stockholder population of both the Company and Motorola Mobility in the period following the Distribution, and changes in market perception of the prospects of the Company and Motorola Mobility as a consequence of the Distribution. Table of Contents 26 Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties Motorola Solutions principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. Motorola Solutions also operates manufacturing facilities and sales offices in other U.S. locations and in many other countries. (See Item 1: Business for information regarding the location of the major facilities for each of the Companys business segments.) As of December 31, 2010, the Company owned 22 facilities (manufacturing, sales, service and office), 12 of which were located in the Americas Region (USA, Canada, Mexico, Central and South America) and 10 of which were located in other countries. As of December 31, 2010, the Company leased 290 facilities, 132 of which were located in the Americas Region and 158 of which were located in other countries. As of December 31, 2010, the Company primarily utilized 9 major facilities for the manufacturing and distribution of its products, and these facilities were located in: Hangzhou and Tianjin, China; Taipei, Taiwan; Chennai, India; Penang, Malaysia; Schaumburg, Illinois; Jaguariuna, Brazil; Reynosa, Mexico; and Berlin, Germany. Following the Separation of Motorola Mobility, as of January 4, 2011, we utilize 14 owned facilities (manufacturing, sales, service and office), 7 of which are located in the Americas Region (USA, Canada, Mexico, Central and South America) and 7 of which are located in other countries. The Company leases 237 facilities, 107 of which are located in the Americas region and 130 of which are located in other countries. The Company primarily utilizes 3 major facilities for the manufacturing and distribution of its products, and these facilities are located in: Penang, Malaysia; Reynosa, Mexico and Texas. Motorola Solutions generally considers the productive capacity of the plants operated by each of its business segments to be adequate and sufficient for the requirements of each business group. The extent of utilization of such manufacturing facilities varies from plant to plant and from time to time during the year. In 2010, a substantial portion of the Companys products were manufactured in Asia, primarily China, either in our own facilities or in the facilities of others who manufacture and assemble products for the Company. Following the Separation of Motorola Mobility, as of January 4, 2011, the Company has a substantial portion of its products manufactured in our own facilities in Mexico and Malaysia, as well as in facilities of others who manufacture and assemble products for the Company. If manufacturing in either region was disrupted, the Companys overall productive capacity could be significantly reduced. Item 3: Legal Proceedings Howell v. Motorola, Inc., et al. A class action, Howell v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against Motorola and various of its directors, officers and employees in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (Illinois District Court) on July 21, 2003, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and violations of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The complaint alleged that the defendants had improperly permitted participants in the Motorola 401(k) Plan (the Plan) to purchase or hold shares of common stock of Motorola because the price of Motorolas stock was artificially inflated by a failure to disclose vendor financing to Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A.S. (Telsim) in connection with the sale of telecommunications equipment by Motorola. Telsim had subsequently defaulted on the payment of approximately $2 billion of such vendor financing, approximately half of which the Company has recovered to date. The plaintiff sought to represent a class of participants in the Plan and sought an unspecified amount of damages. On September 30, 2005, the Illinois District Court dismissed the second amended complaint filed on October 15, 2004 (the Howell Complaint). Three new purported lead plaintiffs subsequently intervened in the case, and filed a motion for class certification seeking to represent a class of Plan participants. The class as certified includes all Plan participants for whose individual accounts the Plan purchased and or held shares of Motorola common stock from May 16, 2000 through May 14, 2001, with certain exclusions. The court granted leave to defendants to appeal the class certification and granted leave to lead plaintiff Howell to appeal an earlier dismissal of his individual claim. Each party filed those appeals. On June 17, 2009, the Illinois District Court granted summary judgment in favor of all defendants on all counts. On June 25, 2009, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals (the Seventh Circuit) dismissed as moot defendants class certification appeal and stayed Table of Contents 27 Howells appeal. On July 14, 2009, plaintiffs appealed the summary judgment decision. By order of the Seventh Circuit on August 17, 2009, Howells individual appeal and plaintiffs appeal of the summary judgment decision (now cited as Howell v. Motorola, Inc. et al. and Lingis et al. v. Rick Dorazil et al.) were consolidated with Spano et al. v. Boeing Company et al. and Beesley et al. v. International Paper Company for argument and decision. On January 21, 2011, the Seventh Circuit affirmed the Illinois District Courts summary judgment decision in favor of Motorola and denied Howells individual appeal in all respects. Silverman Federal Securities Lawsuits and Related Derivative Matters A purported class action lawsuit on behalf of the purchasers of Motorola securities between July 19, 2006 and January 5, 2007, Silverman v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors of the Company on August 9, 2007, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) and Rule 10b 5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as, in the case of the individual defendants, the control person provisions of the Securities Exchange Act. The factual assertions in the complaint consist primarily of the allegation that the defendants knowingly made incorrect statements concerning Motorolas projected revenues for the third and fourth quarter of 2006. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief relating to the purported inflation in the price of Motorola shares during the class period. An amended complaint was filed December 20, 2007, and Motorola moved to dismiss that complaint in February 2008. On September 24, 2008, the district court granted this motion in part to dismiss Section 10(b) claims as to two individuals and certain claims related to forward looking statements, among other things, and denied the motion in part. On August 25, 2009, the district court granted plaintiffs motion for class certification. On March 10, 2010, the district court granted plaintiffs motion to file a second amended complaint which adds allegations concerning Motorolas accounting and disclosures for certain transactions entered into in the third quarter of 2006. In addition, on August 24, 2007, two lawsuits were filed as purportedly derivative actions on behalf of Motorola, Williams v. Zander, et al., and Cinotto v. Zander, et al., in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. These complaints make similar factual allegations to those made in the Silverman complaint and assert causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. The complaints seek unspecified damages associated with the alleged loss to the Company deriving from the defendants actions and demand that Motorola make a number of changes to its internal procedures. An amended complaint was filed on December 14, 2007. On January 27, 2009, Motorolas motion to dismiss the amended complaint was granted in part and denied in part. On March 29, 2010, a purported derivative action lawsuit on behalf of Motorola, Goldfein v. Brown, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against the company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. The complaint makes substantially similar factual allegations to those made in the Williams v. Zander, et al. and Cinotto v. Zander, et al. derivative actions pending in Illinois state court and asserts causes of action for breaches of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief associated with the alleged loss to the Company deriving from the defendants actions. On December 10, 2010 the district court granted the Defendants motion to dismiss and dismissed the case. Plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. St. Lucie County Fire District Firefighters Pension Trust Fund Securities Class Action Case and Related Derivative Matter A purported class action lawsuit , St. Lucie County Fire District Firefighters Pension Fund v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors of the Company on January 21, 2010, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint was amended on June 11, 2010, and again on December 3, 2010. The alleged class includes purchasers of Motorola securities between October 25, 2007 and January 23, 2008. The complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) and Rule 10b 5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as, in the case of the individual defendants, the control person provisions of the Securities Exchange Act. The primary factual allegations are that the defendants knowingly or recklessly made materially misleading statements concerning Motorolas financial projections and sales demand Table of Contents 28 for Motorola phones during the class period. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief relating to the purported inflation in the price of Motorola shares during the class period. Defendants have moved to dismiss the complaint. On April 2, 2010, Waber v. Dorman, et al,. a purported derivative action on behalf of Motorola against certain of its current and former officers and directors, was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint was amended on July 28, 2010. The complaint makes similar factual allegations to those made in the St. Lucie complaint and asserts causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment. The Waber complaint seeks unspecified damages associated with the alleged loss to the Company deriving from the defendants actions. Defendants motion to dismiss the complaint is pending. Groussman v. Motorola et al. and Orlando v. Motorola et al. ERISA Class Action Cases Two purported class action lawsuits on behalf of all participants in or beneficiaries of the Motorola 401(k) Plan (the Plan) between July 1, 2007 and the present and whose accounts included investments in Motorola stock, Joe M. Groussman v. Motorola, Inc. et al. and Angelo W. Orlando v. Motorola, Inc. et al., were filed against the Company and certain current and former officers, directors, and employees of the Company, the Motorola 401(k) Plan Committee, the Advisory Committee of Motorola and other unnamed defendants on February 10, 2010, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. On May 20, 2010, the court ordered the cases to be consolidated. On July 16, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. The amended complaint added as defendants additional current and former employees, the Compensation and Leadership Committee of Motorola, and the Motorola Retirement Benefits Committee, and deleted the Advisory Committee of Motorola as a defendant. The amended complaint also reduced the class period to run from July 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008. The consolidated amended complaint alleges violations of Sections 404 and 405 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). The primary claims in the amended complaint are that, in connection with alleged incorrect statements concerning Motorolas financial projections and demand for Motorola phones during the class period, various of the defendants failed to prudently and loyally manage the Plan by continuing to offer Motorola stock as a Plan investment option, failed to provide complete and accurate information regarding the performance of Motorola stock to the Plans participants and beneficiaries, failed to avoid conflicts of interest, and or failed to monitor the Plan fiduciaries. The amended complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief relating to the purported losses to the Plan and individual participant accounts. On September 24, 2010, the Defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Amended Complaint. On October 7, 2010, the court dismissed the Retirement Benefits Committee as a defendant. On January 18, 2011, the Court denied Defendants Motion to Dismiss the Amended Complaint. Microsoft Corporation v. Motorola, Inc. On October 1, 2010, Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) filed complaints against Motorola, Inc. in the International Trade Commission (ITC) and the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington (District Court) alleging patent infringement based on products manufactured and sold by Motorola, Inc. The ITC matter is entitled In the Matter of Mobile Devices, Associated Software, and Components Thereof (Inv. No. 337 TA 744). On October 6, 2010 and October 12, 2010, Microsoft amended the District Court and ITC complaints, respectively, to add Motorola Mobility, Inc. as a defendant. The complaints, as amended, allege infringement of claims in nine patents based on Motorola, Inc.s and Motorola Mobility, Inc.s manufacture and sale of Android based mobile phones. The ITC complaint seeks exclusion and cease and desist orders. On November 5, 2010, the ITC instituted the investigation. The District Court complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. On November 9, 2010, Microsoft filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington against Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. (the Motorola Defendants) alleging that the Motorola Defendants breached a contractual obligation to license certain patents related to 802.11 wireless networking technology and H.264 video coding technology on reasonable and non discriminatory terms and conditions. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief including a declaration that the Motorola Defendants have not offered royalties to Microsoft under reasonable rates, with reasonable terms and conditions that are demonstrably free of any unfair discrimination. Table of Contents 29 In November 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. and General Instruments Corporation filed complaints against Microsoft in the ITC and in the U.S. District Courts for the Southern District of Florida, Motorola Mobility, Inc. v. Microsoft Corporation and Motorola Mobility, Inc. and General Instruments Corporation v. Microsoft Corporation, and the Western District of Wisconsin, Motorola Mobility, Inc. and General Instruments Corporation v. Microsoft Corporation. The ITC matter is entitled In the Matter of Certain Gaming and Entertainment Consoles, Related Software, and Components Thereof (Inv. No. 337 TA 752). Among the complaints, Motorola Mobility, Inc. and General Instruments Corporation are asserting infringement of claims in nineteen patents by Microsofts PC and Server software, Windows mobile software and Xbox products. The ITC complaint seeks exclusion and cease and desist orders. On December 23, 2010, the ITC instituted the investigation. The District Court complaints seek monetary damages and injunctive relief. In December 2010 and February 2011, Motorola Mobility, Inc. subsequently asserted claims in four additional patents in the Western District of Wisconsin, Motorola Mobility, Inc. v. Microsoft Corporation. Between December 23, 2010 and January 25, 2011, Microsoft filed counterclaims against Motorola Mobility, Inc. in these actions, alleging infringement of a total of fourteen additional Microsoft patents. Motorola Mobility, Inc. v Apple Inc. On October 6, 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. filed a complaint for patent infringement against Apple Inc. with the ITC. The matter is entitled In the Matter of Certain Wireless Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing Devices, Computers and Components Thereof (Inv. No. 337 TA 745). The complaint alleges that Apple Inc. directly infringes, contributorily infringes and or induces others to infringe claims of six patents by importing and selling in the United States after importation certain wireless communication devices, portable music and data processing devices, computers, and components thereof without the authorization of Motorola Mobility, Inc. The complaint seeks the institution of an investigation and the issuance of an exclusion order barring from entry into the United States certain products and a cease and desist order prohibiting Apple from importing, marketing and distributing certain products and other related activities. On November 8, 2010, the ITC instituted the investigation. On October 6, 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. filed two complaints for patent infringement against Apple Inc. in Motorola Mobility, Inc. v Apple Inc., in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (the Illinois Complaints). Motorola Mobility, Inc. filed another complaint for patent infringement against Apple Inc. in Motorola Mobility, Inc. v Apple Inc., in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida (the Florida Complaint). The complaints allege that Apple Inc. directly and or indirectly infringes eighteen Motorola Mobility patents by making, using, offering for sale and selling in the United States certain products and services. On November 9, 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. voluntarily dismissed the Illinois Complaints, which are now being asserted as counterclaims in the actions brought by Apple Inc. below. On November 18, 2010, Apple counterclaimed in the Southern District of Florida, alleging infringement of six Apple patents by Motorola Mobility, Inc.s manufacture and sale of mobile devices, set top boxes and digital video recorders. On October 8, 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. filed a complaint for declaratory relief against Apple Inc. and NeXT Software, Inc. in Motorola Mobility, Inc. v. Apple Inc. and NeXT Software, Inc., in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint seeks a judgment declaring that Motorola Mobility, Inc. has not infringed, induced the infringement of, or contributed to the infringement of any valid, enforceable claim of twelve patents owned by Apple Inc. and NeXT Software, Inc. On December 2, 2010, Apple asserted these twelve patents against Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. in the Western District of Wisconsin, seeking to transfer the Delaware action to Wisconsin. On October 29, 2010, Apple Inc. filed two complaints for patent infringement against Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. in Apple Inc. v. Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc., in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin. The complaints allege infringement of six patents by Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. The complaints allege that Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. directly infringes, contributorily infringes and or induces others to infringe the patents in suit by making, using, offering for sale and selling in the United States certain mobile devices and related software. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. On November 9, 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. filed counterclaims against Apple Inc. to their complaints alleging infringement of twelve Motorola Mobility, Inc. patents originally asserted by Motorola Mobility, Inc. in the Northern District of Illinois as above. On October 29, 2010, Apple Inc. filed a complaint alleging patent infringement against Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. with the United States International Trade Commission. The matter is entitled In the Table of Contents 30 Matter of Certain Mobile Devices and Related Software (Inv. No. 337 TA 750). The complaint alleges infringement of three patents by Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. The complaint alleges that Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. directly infringe, contributorily infringe and or induce others to infringe the patents in suit by manufacturing, marketing and selling in the United States mobile devices, such as smartphones, and associated software, including operating systems, user interfaces, and other application software designed for use on, and loaded onto, such devices. The complaint seeks the and the issuance of an exclusion order barring from entry into the United States certain mobile devices and related software and a cease and desist order prohibiting Motorola from importing, selling, transporting, and other related activities of certain mobile devices and related software. On November 30, 2010, the ITC instituted the investigation. The Company is a defendant in various other suits, claims and investigations that arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of the Companys pending legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved. Item 4: [Removed and Reserved.] Executive Officers of the Registrant Following are the persons who were the executive officers of Motorola Solutions as of February 17, 2011, their ages as of January 1, 2011, their current titles and positions they have held during the last five years: Gregory Q. Brown; age 50; President and Chief Executive Officer, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Co Chief Executive Officer, Motorola, Inc. and Chief Executive Officer of Broadband Mobility Solutions from August 2008 to January 2011; President and Chief Executive Officer from January 2008 to August 2008; President and Chief Operating Officer from June 2007 to January 2008; Executive Vice President, President, Networks and Enterprise from June 2006 to June 2007; Executive Vice President and President, Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions from January 2005 to June 2006. Michael D. Annes; age 47; Corporate Vice President, Business Development and Ventures, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Corporate Vice President, Business Development and Ventures, Motorola, Inc. from January 2009 to January 2011; Corporate Vice President, Law, Integrated Supply Chain from February 2005 to January 2009. Michele A. Carlin; age 49; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Motorola, Inc. from November 2009 to January 2011; Corporate Vice President, Human Resources, Global Rewards and HR Shared Services from July 2008 to October 2009; Vice President, Global Compensation, Benefits & HR Technology, Campbell Soup Company from June 2006 to July 2008; Vice President of HR Rewards & Operations, TIAA CREF from June 2005 to May 2006. Eduardo F. Conrado; age 44; Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Motorola Solutions, Motorola, Inc. from September 2010 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Home & Networks business from March 2009 to September 2010; Corporate Vice President, Marketing and Communications, Home and Networks Mobility Business from December 2007 to March 2009; Vice President, Global Marketing and Communications, Networks & Enterprise businesses from January 2006 to December 2007; Vice President, Global Marketing, Public Relations and Industry Analyst Relations for Motorola Networks from October 2005 to January 2006. Eugene A. Delaney; age 54; Executive Vice President, Product and Business Operations, Enterprise Mobility Solutions, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Executive Vice President, Product and Business Operations, Enterprise Mobility Solutions, Motorola, Inc. from August 2010 to January 2011; Executive Vice President, President, Enterprise Mobility Solutions from January 2009 to August 2010; Senior Vice President, Government and Public Safety from May 2007 to January 2009; Senior Vice President, International Sales Operations, Networks and Enterprise from May 2006 to May 2007; Senior Vice President, International Sales Operations, Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions from May 2005 to May 2006. Table of Contents 31 Edward J. Fitzpatrick; age 44; Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Motorola, Inc. from October 2009 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Acting Chief Financial Officer from February 2009 to October 2009; Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller from January 2009 to February 2009; Corporate Vice President, Finance, Home and Networks Mobility from January 2008 to January 2009; Vice President, Finance, Home and Networks Mobility from June 2007 to January 2008; Vice President, Finance and Controller, Networks and Enterprise from April 2006 to June 2007; Vice President, Finance and Controller, Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions from July 2005 to April 2006. Leslie M. Jones; age 64; Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Motorola, Inc. from July 2008 to January 2011; Corporate Vice President, Information Technology, Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Home & Networks Mobility segments from June 2007 to June 2008; Deputy Chief Information Officer from July 2005 to May 2007. Kelly S. Mark; age 39; Corporate Vice President, Strategy and Staff Operations, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Corporate Vice President, Strategy, Motorola Solutions, Motorola, Inc. from September 2010 to January 2011; Vice President, Chief of Staff from January 2008 to September 2010; Operations consultant, Cerberus Capital from October 2008 to December, 2008; Director of Acquisition Integration from September 2004 to September 2008. Mark F. Moon; age 47; Senior Vice President, Sales and Field Operations, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President, Sales and Field Operations, Motorola Solutions, Motorola, Inc. from August 2010 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations, Enterprise Mobility Solutions business from April 2009 to August 2010; Senior Vice President, Government and Commercial Markets Americas, ASTRO Product Management, Enterprise Mobility Solutions Business from January 2008 to April 2009; Senior Vice President, NA and LAC Biometrics, ASTRO, PCR Product Management, Government and Public Safety Business, Enterprise Mobility Solutions Group from July 2007 to January 2008; Senior Vice President, North America Government and Commercial Markets, Networks and Enterprise Business from December 2006 to July 2007; Corporate Vice President, Sales and Distribution, North America Public Safety, Networks and Enterprise Business from May 2006 to December 2006; Corporate Vice President, Sales and Distribution, State and Local Government, Government and Enterprise Mobility Solutions from March 2005 to May 2006. Lewis A. Steverson; age 47; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary to the Board, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Motorola Solutions, Motorola, Inc., from August 2010 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Law, Enterprise Mobility Solutions business from April 2010 to August 2010; Corporate Vice President, Law, Broadband Mobility business from May 2007 to April 2010; Corporate Vice President, Law, Networks & Enterprise business from March 2006 to May 2007; Corporate Vice President, Law, Government & Enterprise Mobility Solutions business from April 2005 to March 2006. Karen P. Tandy; age 57; Senior Vice President, Public Affairs, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President, Public Affairs, Motorola, Inc. from August 2010 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Public Affairs and Communications from July 2008 to August 2010; Senior Vice President, Global Government Affairs & Public Policy from November 2007 to July 2008; Administrator to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency from July 2003 to November 2007. John K. Wozniak; age 39; Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, Motorola Solutions, Inc. since January 4, 2011; Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, Motorola, Inc. from November 2009 to January 2011; Vice President and Assistant Controller from March 2008 to November 2009; Senior Director of Technical Accounting and International Controller, Home and Networks Mobility from June 2007 to March 2008; Senior Director of Accounting and Transaction Support, Networks and Enterprise from May 2006 to June 2007; Director of Technical Accounting and External Reporting from October 2005 until May 2006. The above executive officers will serve as executive officers of Motorola Solutions until the regular meeting of the Board of Directors in May 2011 or until their respective successors shall have been elected. There is no family relationship between any of the executive officers listed above. Table of Contents 32 PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Motorola Solutions common stock is listed on the New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges. The number of stockholders of record of Motorola Solutions common stock on January 31, 2011 was 61,903. Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to the information under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information of Motorola Solutions Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The remainder of the response to this Item incorporates by reference Note 16, Quarterly and Other Financial Data (unaudited) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing under 
 
