Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 1A: Risk Factors of this document. Payment Terms Payment terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement. Generally, contract payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the invoice date within North America and are typically limited to 90 days in regions outside of North America. A portion of the contracts with our government and public safety customers include implementation milestones, such as delivery, installation and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on completion of the milestone. We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may provide long term financing in connection with system purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase price. Research and Development We participate in very competitive industries with constant changes in technology. Throughout our history, we have relied, and continue to rely, primarily on our research and development (R&D) programs for the development of new products, and on our production engineering capabilities for the improvement of existing products. Management believes, looking forward, that our commitment to R&D programs are necessary to allow us to remain competitive. R&D expenditures relating to new product development or product improvement were $1.0 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009. We continue to believe that a strong commitment to R&D is required to drive long term growth. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 7,000 professional employees were engaged in such R&D activities for us. Regulatory Matters The use of wireless voice, data and video communications systems requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by governmental agencies throughout the world. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) regulate spectrum use by non federal entities and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and international coordination under the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). Consequently, our results could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted by the FCC, NTIA or regulatory agencies in other countries from time to time. The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities and the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios and portable or handheld devices. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum. As television transmission and reception technology transitions from analog to more efficient digital modes, various countries around the world are examining, and in some cases already pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television spectrum. In the U.S., pursuant to federal legislation, analog television stations ceased operation in the broadcast television spectrum on June 12, 2009. As a result of this transition, 108 MHz of spectrum historically used for broadcast television, now known as the 700MHz band, is being redeveloped and deployed for new uses (the so called digital dividend spectrum), including broadband and narrowband wireless communications. Now that the 700 MHz band spectrum is open nationwide, FCC records indicate that so far over 135 public safety agencies throughout over 25 states have been deploying narrowband operations at 700 MHz and others are in the planning stages. Under rules adopted by the FCC, 24 MHz of the 700 MHz band already allocated by the FCC will support new public safety narrowband and broadband communications systems. The public safety community is also seeking legislation from Congress to obtain an additional 10 MHz of dedicated spectrum in the 700 MHz band (D block). If successful, the legislation would double the broadband 700 MHz band spectrum dedicated for public safety. Table of Contents 6 The FCC is also making provisions for a 700 MHz band nationwide public safety broadband network that may be built over the next 10 15 years. In May 2010, the FCC issued 21 conditional waiver grants to public safety agencies around the country to deploy 700 MHz broadband systems. Thirty three additional waiver petitions are pending FCC decisions as of December 2011. Several of the broadband waiver grantees also benefit from federal Broadband Technology Opportunity Policy (BTOP) Grant Funds issued by the NTIA during 2010. In 2010, we were awarded a $50.6 million BTOP grant to deploy a broadband system in the greater San Francisco Bay area. We are also working with a number of customers in other areas who received FCC conditional waivers to use the 700 MHz broadband spectrum. For example, during 2011, we received an award to implement a 700 MHz (LTE) broadband system for the Mississippi Wireless Communication Commission. Public safety organizations and the FCC have endorsed the use of LTE technology, a technology in which we are investing, for this broadband network. In November 2010, Canada also released a consultation requesting input on making broadband spectrum available for public safety use in the 700 MHz band. All full power TV broadcasters in Canada vacated the 700 MHz band by August 31, 2011. During 2011, the Radio Advisory Board of Canada (RABC), an influential industry association, recommended that Canadian decision makers harmonize the band with that in the U.S. Further decisions regarding broadband use in Canada are expected to be released during 2012. Internationally, the ITU World Radio Conference (WRC) is being held in Geneva during the first quarter of 2012. During this session, leaders from United Nation member countries will consider a number of initiatives, including whether to allocate additional spectrum for commercial broadband use as well as whether to allocate spectrum dedicated for public safety broadband. If the WRC agrees to consider spectrum for public safety broadband, studies would follow that would assess whether and how much spectrum is needed and recommendations for where in the spectrum range the spectrum should be allocated (taking into account regional and global harmonization to the extent practicable). The result could be future allocations for dedicated broadband spectrum for public safety which will provide opportunities for us in the future. In addition, certain countries already have spectrum landscapes that would permit country administrations to allocate public safety spectrum today. A WRC initiative can spur individual countries to act sooner, which may also create opportunities for our broadband solutions in the nearer term. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. Intellectual Property Matters Patent protection is extremely important to our operations. We have an extensive U.S. and international portfolio of patents relating to our products, systems, technologies and manufacturing processes, including research developments in scanning, information collection, mission critical two way radio communication, network communications and network management. We have also filed additional patent applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as in foreign patent offices. We license some of our patents to third parties, but this revenue is not significant. We are also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. In particular, Motorola Solutions has a royalty free license under all of the patents and patent applications assigned to Motorola Mobility at the time of the separation of the two businesses. Royalty and licensing costs vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of our products subject to licenses. We actively participate in the development of open standards for interoperable, mission critical digital two way radio systems. We have published our technology and licensed patents to signatories of the industrys two primary memorandums of understanding defined by the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA), Project 25, European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), and TETRA. Notwithstanding the transfer of patents to Motorola Mobility, the expiration of certain patents and the resulting potential for increased competition for some of our products in the future, we believe that our remaining Table of Contents 7 patent portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a single patent or a few patents. Our success depends more upon our proprietary know how, innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities. In addition, because of changing technology, our present intention is not to rely primarily on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position. However, we plan to continue to litigate against competitors to enforce our intellectual property rights in certain technologies when attempts to negotiate mutually agreeable licenses are not successful. Patents and Trademarks As of December 31, 2011, we owned approximately 6,013 patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. As of December 31, 2011, we and our wholly owned subsidiaries had approximately 2,700 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. These foreign patents and patent applications are mostly counterparts of our U.S. patents. During 2011, we and our wholly owned subsidiaries were granted 237 U.S. patents and 314 patents in other countries. Inventory, Raw Materials, Right of Return and Seasonality Our practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers delivery requirements in a manner consistent with industry standards. We provide custom products which require the stocking of inventories and large varieties of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent our suppliers product life cycles are shorter than ours, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required to meet long term warranty and contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle. At December 31, 2011, our inventory balance decreased slightly compared to December 31, 2010. Availability of materials and components required by the Company is generally dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand have caused and could cause selective shortages and affect results. We currently procure certain materials and components from single source vendors. A material disruption from a single source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If certain single source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial results. Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these resources is currently in adequate supply for our operations. In addition, the cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to our manufacturing facilities. Difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources or a significant cost increase could affect our financial results. Generally, our customer contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard warranty provisions; however, certain distributor partners within the commercial enterprise markets do maintain limited stock rotation rights. Due to buying patterns in the markets we serve, sales tend to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter. Environmental Quality During 2011, compliance with federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive position of the Company. Employees At December 31, 2011, we and our subsidiaries had approximately 23,000 employees, compared to 51,000 employees at December 31, 2010. Approximately 19,000 employees transferred as part of the distribution of Motorola Mobility on January 4, 2011, and approximately 7,000 employees transferred with the sale of certain assets and liabilities of the Networks business to NSN. Available Information We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorolasolutions.com/investor, our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, proxy statements, other Table of Contents 8 reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SECs website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents: Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board Governance Guidelines Motorola Solutions, Inc. Director Independence Guidelines Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer) Audit and Legal Committee Charter Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter Governance and Nominating Committee Charter All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E mail: investors@motorolasolutions.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10 K and Definitive Proxy Statement may also be requested in hardcopy by clicking on Printed Materials at www.investor.motorolasolutions.com. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Table of Contents 9 Item 1A: Risk Factors We wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this report or in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. The uncertainty of current economic and political conditions makes budgeting and forecasting very difficult and may reduce demand for our products. Current conditions in the domestic and world economies remain uncertain. This is particularly true of U.S. government customers budgetary conditions. As a result of global economic conditions, U.S. and European unemployment levels, the ongoing recession in Europe and ongoing political conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere have created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted worldwide markets. As a result, it is difficult to estimate changes in various parts of the U.S. and world economy, including the markets in which we participate. Components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures difficult. We have sizeable operations in Europe, which have been and will be impacted by the ongoing financial situation in Europe and the weakening Euro. We have engineering resources in Israel that could be disrupted as a result of hostilities in the region. We also sell our products and services throughout the Middle East and demand for our products and services could be negatively impacted by political conflicts and hostilities in this region. The potential for future unrest, terrorist attacks, increased global conflicts and the escalation of existing conflicts has created worldwide uncertainties that have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, demand for certain of our products. We continue to face a number of risks related to current global economic conditions, including adverse credit conditions, low economic growth, risk of sovereign defaults and high levels of unemployment. Global economic conditions continue to be challenging for government and enterprise communications markets, as many economies and financial markets remain in a recession resulting from a number of factors, including adverse credit conditions, low economic growth rates, risk of sovereign defaults, particularly in certain European countries, continuing high rates of unemployment, reduced corporate capital spending and other factors. Economic growth in the U.S. and many other countries has remained low and the length of time these adverse economic conditions may persist are unknown. These global economic conditions have impacted and could continue to impact our business in a number of ways, including: Potential Deferment or Cancellation of Purchases and Orders by Customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause, and in some cases has caused businesses and governments to defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit and decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. If future demand for our products declines due to global economic conditions, it will negatively impact our financial results. Customers Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from Motorola Solutions and or Maintain Their Business: Some of our customers require substantial financing, including public financing or government grants, in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit or other funds to finance purchases of our products and or meet their payment obligations to us could have, and in some cases has had, a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, if global economic conditions result in insolvencies for our customers, it will negatively impact our financial results. Requests by Customers for Vendor Financing by Motorola Solutions: Certain of our customers, particularly, but not limited to, those who purchase large infrastructure systems, request that their suppliers provide financing in connection with equipment purchases or the provision of managed services. In response to reduced tax revenue at the state and local government level and ongoing tightening of credit for certain customers, these types of requests have increased in volume and scope. Motorola Solutions, particularly in its Government and Public Safety business, but also in connection with its Global Services offering, has continued to provide customer financing in light of these requests. A continuation of the credit market dislocation could force us to Table of Contents 10 choose between further increasing our level of vendor financing or potentially losing sales to these customers, as some of our competitors, particularly in Asia, have been more willing to provide vendor financing. We also retain exposure to the credit quality of our customers who we finance. Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Third Party Dealers, Distributors and Retailers: We make sales in certain regions through third party dealers, distributors and retailers. Although many of these third parties have significant operations and maintain access to available credit, others are smaller and more likely to be impacted by the significant decrease in available credit that resulted from the financial crisis that continues today. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for important third parties and we are unable to successfully transition end customers to purchase our products from other third parties or from us directly, it may cause, and in some cases has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key Suppliers: Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain single source or limited source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and negatively impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at single source suppliers have resulted in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. If this trend continues, it will continue to negatively impact our cash flow. Increased Risk of Financial Counterparty Failures Could Negatively Impact our Financial Position: We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our overall exposure to the effects of currency fluctuations on cash flows. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to these derivative financial instruments. Although the contracts are distributed among several leading financial institutions, all of whom presently have investment grade credit ratings, the default by one or more counterparty could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Returns on Pension and Retirement Plan Assets and Interest Rate Changes Could Affect Our Earnings and Cash Flow in Future Periods: We have large underfunded pension obligations, in part resulting from the fact that we typically retain all of the U.S. pension liabilities and the majority of our non U.S. pension liabilities following our divestitures, including the distribution of Motorola Mobility. The funding position of our pension plans is affected by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity and debt markets, and the interest rates used to calculate our pension obligations for funding and expense purposes. Annual pension contributions are determined by government regulations and calculated based upon our pension funding status, interest rates, and other factors. If the financial markets perform poorly, we could be and have been required to make additional large contributions. The equity markets can be volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can affect our contribution requirements. In a low interest rate environment like the one we are in, the likelihood of higher contributions in the future increases. We have direct and indirect exposure to European sovereign and non sovereign debt, European markets in terms of our revenues and cash flows and to fluctuations in the Euro. We view our exposures to the Euro as follows as of December 31, 2011: Our cash and cash equivalents include approximately $300 million of Euro denominated currency Our accounts receivables balance includes approximately $230 million of Euro denominated receivables We estimate that approximately 10% of our total annual estimated 2012 sales are Euro denominated Company sponsored defined benefit plans have no material exposure to Euro sovereign debt, approximately $50 million exposure to Euro corporate bonds, and approximately $220 million to Euro equity investments A significant devaluation of, or movement away from, the use of the Euro could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Table of Contents 11 Our success depends in part on our timely introduction of new products and technologies and our results can be impacted by the effectiveness of our significant investments in new products and technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. We face intense competition in these markets and new products are expensive to develop and bring to market. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of new products and upgrades of current products to comply with emerging industry standards and to address competing technological and product developments carried out by our competitors. The research and development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology and market trends. Many of our products and systems are complex and we may experience delays in completing development and introducing new products or technologies in the future. We may focus our resources on technologies that do not become widely accepted or are not commercially viable or involve compliance obligations with additional areas of regulatory requirements. In addition, our products may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment. If our products are not competitive or do not work properly, our business will suffer. Our results are subject to risks related to our significant investment in developing and introducing new products, such as integrated digital radios and integrated public safety systems. These risks include among others: (i) difficulties and delays in the development, production, testing and marketing of products; (ii) customer acceptance of products; (iii) the development of, approval of, and compliance with industry standards and regulatory requirements; (iv) the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technologies; and (v) the ability to differentiate our products and compete with other companies in the same markets. We are exposed to risks under large multi year system and managed services contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large multi year system contracts with large municipal, state, nation wide government and enterprise customers. This exposes us to risks, including among others: (i) the technological risks of such contracts, especially when the contracts involve new technology, and (ii) financial risks under these contracts, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large contracts and the related impact on operating results. We are also facing increasing competition from traditional system integrators and the defense industry as system contracts become larger and more complicated. Political developments also can impact the nature and timing of large government contracts. In addition, multi year awards from governmental customers may often only receive partial funding initially and may typically be cancellable on short notice with limited penalties. The termination of funding for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, we are increasingly providing managed services to our customers, particularly as we expand our Global Services organization, which requires that we partner with other systems and services providers, often on multi year projects, to design, construct, manage and operate a public safety system or other commercial system. From time to time such projects may require that we form a joint venture with our partners. Such arrangements may require us to assume the risk and agree to specific performance metrics that meet the customers requirement for network availability, reliability, maintenance and support. In certain cases, if these performance metrics are not met we may not be paid. Depending on the nature of such projects, which are referred to as build own operate (BOO) and in some cases maintain (BOOM) or transfer (BOOT), we may be unable to recognize revenue from the sale of equipment for a period of time, which may be several years. Such BOO, BOOM and BOOT arrangements shift risk to us and may result in an adverse impact on our profitability if we are unable to meet the requirements of such contracts. The expansion of our business into managed services creates new and increased areas of risk that we have not been exposed to in the past and that we may not be able to properly assess or mitigate against. In July 2011, we announced the formation of our Global Services organization and we plan to expand our business by offering additional and expanded managed services for existing and new types of customers, such as designing, building and managing the network for emergency service organizations or enterprise customers. The Table of Contents 12 offering of managed services involves the integration of multiple services, multiple vendors and multiple technologies. Such expansion will bring us into contact with new regulatory requirements and restrictions with which we will have to comply. This may increase the costs and delay or limit the range of new services which we will be able to offer. The managed services business is one characterized by large subcontracting arrangements and we may not be able to obtain adequate indemnities or other protections from our subcontractors to adequately mitigate our risk to our customers. We do not currently carry professional liability insurance, as such insurance is expensive to obtain for the amount of coverage typically requested by certain customers and we are therefore self insured for potential claims resulting from the managed services we provide. A portion of our business is dependent upon U.S. Government contracts and grants, which are highly regulated and subject to oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives and subject to cancellations. Such audits could result in adverse findings and negatively impact our business. Our government business is subject to specific procurement regulations with numerous compliance requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracting, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs may increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time, and the inability to receive future grants. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs, foreign corruption and the False Claims Act. Generally, U.S. Government contracts and grants are subject to oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contracts or grants. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract or grant may not be allowed, and such costs already reimbursed may have to be refunded. Future audits and adjustments, if required, may materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit findings could also result in investigations, termination of a contract or grant, forfeiture of profits or reimbursements, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. All contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the U.S. Government. In addition, contacts with government officials and participation in political activities are areas that are tightly controlled by federal, state and local laws. Failure to comply with these laws could cost us opportunities to seek certain government sales opportunities or even result in fines, prosecution, or debarment. We derive a portion of our revenue from government customers who award business through competitive bidding which can involve significant upfront costs and risks. This effort may not result in awards of business or we may fail to accurately estimate the costs to fulfill contracts awarded to us, which could have adverse consequences on our future profitability. Many government customers, including most U.S. government customers, award business through a competitive bidding process, which results in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. The competitive bidding process involves significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids for contracts that may not be awarded to us. Even if we are awarded contracts, we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill a contract, which could negatively impact the profitability of any contract award to us. In addition, following a contract award, we have experienced and may continue to experience significant expense or delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result of customer delay or our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. Government regulation of radio frequencies may limit the growth of public safety broadband systems or reduce barriers to entry for new competitors. Radio frequencies are required to provide wireless services. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. The growth of public safety broadband communications systems may be affected: (i) by regulations relating to Table of Contents 13 the access to allocated spectrum for public safety users, (ii) if adequate frequencies are not allocated, or (iii) if new technologies are not developed to better utilize the frequencies currently allocated for such use. Industry growth may also be affected by new licensing fees required to use frequencies. The U.S. leads the world in spectrum deregulation, allowing new wireless communications technologies to be developed and offered for sale. Examples include wireless local area network systems, such as WiFi, mesh technologies and wide area network systems, such as WiMAX and LTE. Other countries have also deregulated portions of their available spectrum to allow deployment of these and other technologies. Deregulation may introduce new competition and new opportunities for us. The U.S. is currently contemplating allocating the 10 MHz in the 700 MHz spectrum D block to public safety. Alternatively the D block spectrum may be auctioned to commercial carriers, as has been advocated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Failure to allocate the D block spectrum to public safety could reduce sales of next generation public safety communications systems in the U.S. and, as a result, could negatively impact our business. Even if D block legislation passes, there remains a risk that some provisions of the legislation may limit our ability to compete for LTE business and could also limit future narrowband sales if the legislation requires public safety to give back narrowband spectrum in the 700 MHz spectrum block. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and, as a result, we face risks that other companies that are not global may not face. Our customers and suppliers are located throughout the world and more than 40% of our revenue is generated by customers outside the U.S. In addition, we have a number of manufacturing, research and development, administrative and sales facilities outside the U.S. and more than 50% of our employees are employed outside the U.S. Most of our suppliers operations are outside the U.S. and most of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. As with all companies that have sizeable sales and operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to risks that could negatively impact sales or profitability, including but not limited to: (i) import/export regulations, tariffs, trade barriers and trade disputes, customs classifications and certifications, including but not limited to changes in classifications or errors or omissions related to such classifications and certifications; (ii) changes in U.S. and non U.S. rules related to trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection; (iii) longer payment cycles; (iv) tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws from country to country and as compared to the U.S., obligations under tax incentive agreements, difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner and difficulties in securing local country approvals for cash repatriations; (v) currency fluctuations, particularly in the euro, Chinese renminbi, the British pound, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit and the Brazilian real among others; (vi) foreign exchange regulations, which may limit our ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency; (vii) challenges in collecting accounts receivable; (viii) cultural and language differences; (ix) employment regulations and local labor conditions; (x) difficulties protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; (xi) instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; (xii) natural disasters such as the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan and floods in Thailand; (xiii) public health issues or outbreaks; (xiv) changes in laws or regulations that negatively impact benefits being received by us or that require costly modifications in products sold or operations performed in such countries; (xv) the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements; and (xvi) litigation in foreign court systems and foreign administrative proceedings. Many of our products that are manufactured outside the U.S. are manufactured in Asia (primarily Malaysia and China) and Latin America (primarily Mexico). If manufacturing in these regions is disrupted, our overall capacity could be significantly reduced and sales or profitability could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the legal system in China is still developing and this and other legal systems around the world are subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in China could be negatively impacted by changes to, or interpretation of, Chinese law. We also have a presence in emerging markets such as India. We face additional challenges in emerging markets, including creating demand for our products and the negative impact of changes in the laws or the interpretation of the laws, in those countries. We also are subject to risks that our operations could be conducted by our employees, contractors, representatives or agents in ways that violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti Bribery Act, or other Table of Contents 14 similar anti corruption laws. While we have policies and procedures to comply with these laws, our employees, contractors, representatives and agents may take actions that violate our policies. Any such violations could have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, we face additional risks that our anti corruption policies and procedures may be violated by third party sales representatives or other third parties that help sell our products or provide other services, because such representatives or agents are not our employees and it may be more difficult to oversee their conduct. We may not continue to have access to the capital markets for financing on acceptable terms and conditions, particularly if our credit ratings are downgraded. From time to time we access the capital markets to obtain financing. Our access to the capital markets and the availably of acceptable terms and conditions are impacted by many factors, including: (i) our credit ratings, (ii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets, and (iii) the current state of the economy. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. We are rated middle triple B by all three national rating agencies. Any downward changes by the rating agencies to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. Under certain circumstances, if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, an increase in the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility could result. In addition, a downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our ability to: access the debt markets; provide performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds; hedge foreign exchange risk; fund our foreign affiliates; and sell receivables. A downgrade in our credit rating could also result in less favorable trade terms with suppliers. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. Any future disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets may result in higher funding costs for us and adversely affect our ability to access funds and other credit related products. Changes in our effective tax rate may have a negative impact on future operating results. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may be negatively impacted by (i) changes in the mix of earnings taxable in jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, (ii) changes in tax laws and accounting principles, (iii) changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, (iv) failure to meet commitments under tax incentive agreements, (v) discovery of new information during the course of tax return preparation, (vi)increases in nondeductible expenses, or (vii) difficulties in repatriating cash held abroad in a tax efficient manner. Tax audits may also negatively impact our effective tax rate. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns, and tax authorities may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional tax. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have a negative impact on future operating results. If the quality of our products does not meet our customers expectations or regulatory or industry standards, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted. Some of the products we sell may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used in the product. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. Sometimes, we discover quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such pre shipment and post shipment quality issues can have legal and financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer imposed penalties on us for failure to meet contractual requirements, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation. In some cases, if the quality issue affects the products safety or regulatory compliance, then such a defective product may need to be stop shipped or recalled. Depending on the nature of the defect and the number of products in the field, it could cause us to incur substantial recall costs, in addition to the costs associated with the potential loss of future orders and the damage to our goodwill or brand reputation. In addition, we may be required, under certain customer contracts, to pay damages for failed performance that might exceed the revenue Table of Contents 15 that we receive from the contracts. In certain jurisdictions when contracting with the government no limitation to liability is permitted by law. Recalls involving regulatory non compliance could also result in fines and additional costs. Finally, recalls could result in third party litigation by persons or companies alleging harm or economic damage as a result or the use of the products. Many of our components and products are designed or manufactured by third parties and if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties, it may have a negative impact on our business. We rely on third parties to design or manufacture many of our components and finished products. We could have difficulties fulfilling our orders and our sales and profits could decline if (i) we are not able to engage such manufacturers with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, (ii) such third parties lack sufficient quality control and fail to deliver quality components or products on time and at reasonable prices or deliver products that do not meet regulatory or industry standards or requirements, or (iii) if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third parties. We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts and the inability of our subcontractors to perform could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner. We engage subcontractors on many of our contracts and as we expand our Global Services organization our use of subcontractors will increase. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, which might result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty claims and regulatory compliance issues and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, third party distributors and representatives to use acceptable ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require our suppliers and subcontractors to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti corruption and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to a third party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to form successful strategic alliances. If these arrangements do not develop as expected, our business may be negatively impacted. We currently partner with industry leaders and other large organizations to meet customer product and service requirements and to develop innovative advances in design and technology. Some of our partnerships allow us to supplement internal manufacturing capacity and share the cost of developing next generation technologies. Other partnerships allow us to offer more services and features to our customers. However, such arrangements carry an element of risk because, in many cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a partnership and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. If such arrangements do not develop as expected, our business could be negatively impacted. As we expand our Global Services organization our need to partner will increase. We rely on third party distributors, representatives and retailers to sell certain of our products In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third party distributors, representatives and retailers. Our distributors or representatives may also market other products that compete with our products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively Table of Contents 16 promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers, could affect our ability to bring products to market. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components to meet the demands of our customers and any reduction or interruption in supplies or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our ability to meet customers demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. If demand for our products increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters or financial issues, we could experience shortages. We have experienced shortages in the past, including recently as a result of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and flooding in Thailand, that have negatively impacted our results of operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid shortages, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter shortages in the future or that such shortages will not negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, our current contractual arrangements with certain suppliers may be cancelled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these single source or limited source suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages we may suffer. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption, including as a result of third party attacks, could have a negative impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within the Company and some are outsourced. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. As a provider of high technology emergency response systems, we face additional risk as a target of sophisticated attacks aimed at compromising our intellectual property, referred to as advanced persistent threats. In addition, we plan to implement a number of significant business systems upgrades in 2012 which, if defective or improperly installed or implemented may result in a business disruption. A system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. There has been a sharp increase in laws in Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere imposing requirements for the handling of personal data. There is a risk that failures in systems designed to protect private, personal or proprietary data held by us will allow such data to be disclosed to or seen by others, resulting in application of regulatory penalties, remediation obligations and or private litigation by parties whose data were disclosed. We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights. Our business will be harmed if: (i) we, our customers and or our suppliers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, (ii) the intellectual property indemnities in our supplier agreements are inadequate to cover damages and losses due to infringement of third party intellectual property rights by supplier products, (iii) we are required to provide broad intellectual property indemnities to our customers, (iv) our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect against threats of misappropriation from internal or external sources or otherwise inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, or (v) our competitors negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property. We may be harmed if we are forced to make publicly available, under the relevant open source licenses, certain internally developed software related intellectual property as a result of either our use of open source software code or the use of third party software that contains open source code. Table of Contents 17 Since our products are comprised of complex technology, much of which we acquire from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, we are often involved in or impacted by assertions, including both requests for licenses and litigation, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted, and in the future may assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our customers and suppliers. These assertions against us, and our customers and suppliers have been increasing as the complexity of our products has increased. Many of these assertions are brought by non practicing entities whose principle business model is to secure patent licensing based revenue from product manufacturing companies. The patent holders often make broad and sweeping claims regarding the applicability of their patents to our products, seeking a percentage of sales as licenses fees, seeking injunctions to pressure us into taking a license, or a combination thereof. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Increasingly, third parties have sought broad injunctive relief which could limit our ability to sell our products in the U.S. or elsewhere with intellectual property subject to the claims. If we do not succeed in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non infringing products or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation, each of which could have a negative impact on our financial results. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain products if we or our customer or supplier are subject to a final injunction. We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our suppliers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations or that a suppliers indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers due to the infringing products or that a supplier will choose to accept a license or modify or replace its products with non infringing products which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, we may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a supplier and may not be able to influence any ultimate resolution or outcome that may negatively impact our sales if a court enters an injunction that enjoins the suppliers products or if the International Trade Commission issues an exclusionary order that blocks our products from importation into the U.S. The frequency with which intellectual property disputes involving our suppliers have resulted in our involvement in International Trade Commission proceedings has increased. These proceedings are costly and entail the risk that we will be subjected to a ban on the importation of our products into the U.S. solely as a result of our use of a suppliers components. In addition, our customers increasingly demand that we indemnify them broadly from all damages and losses resulting from intellectual property litigation against them. Our patent and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and may generate income under license agreements. We regard our intellectual property as proprietary and attempt to protect it with patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other methods. We also generally restrict access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our proprietary information or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our financial results. As we expand our business, including through acquisitions, and compete with new competitors in new markets, the breadth and strength of our intellectual property portfolio in those new areas may not be as developed as in our longer standing businesses. This may expose us to a heightened risk of litigation and other challenges from competitors in these new markets. Further, competitors may be able to negotiate significantly more favorable terms for licensed intellectual property than we are able to, which puts them at a competitive advantage. As our products become more like commercial products, through the adoption of industry standard technologies, for instance, our intellectual property related risks may increase. Table of Contents 18 We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives and formatives thereof (Motorola Marks) and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Mobility. Our joint use of the Motorola Marks could result in product and market confusion and negatively impact our ability to expand our business under the Motorola brand. In addition, if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement we could lose our rights to the Motorola Marks. We have a worldwide, perpetual and royalty free license from Motorola Mobility to use the Motorola Marks as part of our corporate name and in connection with the manufacture, sale, and marketing of our current products and services. The license of the Motorola Marks is important to us because of the reputation of the Motorola brand for our products and services. Although we will continue to be able to use the Motorola Marks in certain fields of use we no longer own the Motorola Marks after the distribution of Motorola Mobility. There are risks associated with both Motorola Mobility and the Company using the Motorola Marks and with this loss of ownership. As both Motorola Mobility and the Company will be using the Motorola Marks, confusion could arise in the market, including customer and investor confusion regarding the products offered by and the actions of the two companies. This risk could increase as both Motorola Mobilitys and our products continue to converge. Also, any negative publicity associated with either company in the future could adversely affect the public image of the other. In addition because our license of the Motorola Marks will be limited to products and services within our specified fields of use, we will not be permitted to use the Motorola Marks in other fields of use without the approval of Motorola Mobility. In the event that we desire to expand our business into any other fields of use, we may need to do so with a brand other than Motorola. Developing a brand as well known and with as much brand equity as Motorola could take considerable time and expense. The risk of needing to develop a second brand increases as Motorola Mobilitys and our products continue to converge and as our business expands into other fields of use. In addition, we could lose our rights to use the Motorola Marks if we do not comply with the terms of the license agreement. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, Motorola Mobility has the right to license the brand to third parties and either Motorola Mobility or licensed third parties may use the brand in ways that make the brand less attractive for customers of Motorola Solutions, creating increased risk that Motorola Solutions may need to develop an alternate or additional brand. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: (i) the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions; (iii) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (iv) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (v) the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (vi) the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (vii) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (viii) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (ix) future impairments of goodwill of an acquired business. Acquisition candidates in the industries in which we participate may carry higher relative valuations (based on their earnings) than we do. This is particularly evident in software and services businesses. Acquiring a business that has a higher valuation than Motorola Solutions may be dilutive to our earnings, especially if the acquired business has little or no revenue. In addition, we may not pursue opportunities that are highly dilutive to near term earnings. Key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in connection with a transaction in the form of change in control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity based compensation rights. To retain such employees and integrate the acquired business, we may offer additional retention incentives, but it may still be difficult to retain certain key employees. Table of Contents 19 We have completed a number of large divestitures over the last several years and have ongoing potential liability associated with those transactions and the businesses we divested. Over the last several years we have spun off or sold a number of businesses, including Motorola Mobility and our Networks business and we may divest other businesses in the future. In most of our divestitures we make representations and warranties and agree to covenants relating to the business divested. We remain liable for a period of time for breaches of representations, warranties and covenants and we also indemnify buyers in the event of such breaches and for other specific risks. In addition, it is not unusual to remain liable for certain pre closing liabilities associated with the divested business, such as pension liabilities, taxes, environmental liabilities and litigation. In certain situations, such as our spin off transactions, we may retain ongoing risk in the event of a liquidation or bankruptcy of the company we spun off, even if they assumed certain liabilities because they were incurred when they were part of the Company. In addition, although we often assign contracts associated with the divested business to a buyer in a divestiture, often that assignment will be subject to the consent of the contractual counterparty, which may not be obtained or may be conditioned, resulting in the company remaining liable under the contract. Even though we establish reserves for any expected ongoing liability associated with divested businesses, those reserves may not be sufficient if unexpected liabilities arise and this could negatively impact our financial condition and future results of operations. Following the sale of our Networks infrastructure assets we retained certain promissory notes and other obligations relating to vendor financing, but we no longer have a customer/vendor relationship with the borrowers, which may put us at increased risk for defaults. Certain of the customers of our former Networks business who purchased large infrastructure systems requested that their suppliers provide financing in connection with equipment purchases. We retained the promissory notes and other obligations related to such vendor financing that was consummated up to the closing of the sale of our Networks business on April 29, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the outstanding amount was approximately $130 million. As we no longer have a customer/vendor relationship with the borrowers following the sale we could be at increased risk of a default by such customers, as they may choose to pay their current vendors before they pay us. In addition, a majority of this debt is issued by former customers operating in the Middle East and could be negatively impacted by political unrest in this region. Finally, we retained certain recourse obligations with respect to a portion of the promissory notes and other obligations which we sold in 2011 in the event those notes and obligations are uncollectable as a result of the structure of our transaction with NSN. We may be required to record additional goodwill or other long lived asset impairment charges, which could result in an additional significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. No goodwill or long lived assets impairment charges were recorded during 2011, 2010 or 2009. Declines in our stock price or reductions in our future cash flow estimates and future operating results may require us to record significant additional goodwill or other long lived asset impairment charges in our financial statements in future periods, which could negatively impact our financial results. Changes in our operations or sales outside the U.S. markets could result in lost benefits in impacted countries and increase our cost of doing business. We have entered into various agreements with non U.S. governments, agencies or similar organizations under which we receive certain benefits relating to its operations and or sales in the jurisdiction. If our circumstances change, and operations or sales are not at levels originally anticipated, we may be at risk of having to reimburse benefits already granted, and losing some or all of these benefits and increasing our cost of doing business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, retain and prepare succession plans for senior management and key employees. The performance of our CEO, senior management and other key employees is critical to our success. If we are unable to retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key employees or attract them when Table of Contents 20 needed, it could negatively impact us. We rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace and competition for management with experience in the communications industry is intense. A loss of the CEO, a member of senior management or key employee particularly to a competitor could also place us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our CEO, senior management and other key employees, the Company could be negatively impacted. It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain the types of engineers and other highly skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive. Competition for key technical personnel in high technology industries is intense. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel needed to develop successful new products. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, assimilating, retaining and utilizing these highly skilled personnel. In 2012, we are planning changes to our annual stock grants, which may increase the retention risk of affected employees. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation or administrative action could negatively impact the Company. Our financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti corruption laws. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact our financial results. It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance or we exhaust our coverage we are forced to retain the risk. We have many types of insurance coverage and are also self insured for some risks and obligations. While the cost and availability of most insurance is stable, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain difficult to obtain. As we grow our Global Services organization we are increasingly being asked to obtain professional liability insurance. We do not currently carry professional liability insurance as such insurance is expensive to obtain for the amount of coverage often requested by certain customers. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims, professional liability and public liability are potential self insured events that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident or claim. We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and or sell are subject to a wide range of global laws. Compliance with existing or future laws could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products and services we can offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to certain substances. For example, in the United States, laws often require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault and often times in response to action or omissions that were legal at the time they occurred. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Changes to environmental laws or our discovery of additional obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Laws focused on: the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium ion batteries and other aspects are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of Table of Contents 21 wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can offer certain products, solutions and services, on product costs, and on what capabilities and characteristics our products or services can or must include. These laws impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that we will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. We may be unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components and parts that are verified free of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which could result in a shortage of such components and parts or reputational damages if we are unable to certify that our products are free of such minerals. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures regarding a manufacturers efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. While final rules implementing these requirements have not yet been released, the implementation may limit the pool of suppliers who can provide us verifiable DRC Conflict Free components and parts, and we are not certain that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities that meet the DRC Conflict Free designation as proposed by the requirements. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, other stockholders and the activist community if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the defined conflict metals used in our products. Changes in government policies and laws, funding or economic conditions may negatively impact our financial results. Our results may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. In particular, the financial results of our Government segment may be negatively impacted by any decreases in the level of government funding, including availability of grants, for public safety projects. Our results may also be affected by social and economic conditions, which impact our operations, including in emerging markets in Asia, India, Latin America and Eastern Europe, and in markets subject to ongoing political hostilities and war, including the Middle East. A large percentage of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside of the United States and we could be subject to repatriation delays and costs which could reduce our financial flexibility. A large percentage of our cash and cash equivalents is held outside the U.S., while many of our liabilities, such as our public debt and the majority of our pension liabilities, are payable in the U.S. While we regularly repatriate funds with minimal adverse financial impact, repatriation of some of the funds has been and could continue to be subject to delay for local country approvals and could have potential adverse tax consequences. As a result of having a lower amount of the cash and cash equivalents in the U.S., our financial flexibility may be reduced. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally volatile securities markets and the volatility in the telecommunications and technology companies securities markets in particular. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to, market expectations of our performance, spending plans of our customers and the level of perceived growth in the industries in which we participate. In connection with the distribution of Motorola Mobility, Motorola Mobility indemnified us for certain liabilities and we indemnified Motorola Mobility for certain liabilities. This indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by Motorola Mobility and Motorola Mobility may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future. Pursuant to the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement and certain other agreements with Motorola Mobility, Motorola Mobility agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify Motorola Mobility for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts. Motorola Mobility has entered into an agreement to be acquired by Google, which the transaction is currently awaiting regulatory approval. This indemnity obligation will not change as a result of the acquisition of Motorola Mobility by Google. There can be no Table of Contents 22 assurance that the indemnity from Motorola Mobility will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Motorola Mobility will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations, even if the pending acquisition by Google is completed. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Motorola Mobility has agreed to assume. Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Motorola Mobility any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. In addition, indemnities that we may be required to provide Motorola Mobility are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For more detailed information, see the Amended and Restated Master Separation and Distribution Agreement which was filed as an exhibit to our Form 10 Q for the third quarter 2010. A change of control of or bankruptcy of Motorola Mobility could result in an incompatible third party owning the Motorola Marks or the loss of certain rights, including the license. Since Motorola Mobility owns the Motorola Marks, in the event Motorola Mobility is acquired, the acquiring entity would gain control of the Motorola Marks. If the acquisition by Google is completed, the Motorola Marks will be controlled by Google. In the event of a liquidation of Motorola Mobility or the then owner of the Motorola Marks, it is possible that a bankruptcy court would permit the Motorola Marks to be assigned to a third party. While our right to use the Motorola Marks under our license should continue in our specified field of use in such situations, it is possible that we could be party to a license arrangement with a third party whose interests are incompatible with ours, thereby potentially making the license arrangement difficult to administer, and increasing the costs and risks associated with sharing the Motorola Marks. In addition, there is a risk that, in the event of a bankruptcy of Motorola Mobility or the then owner of the Motorola Marks, Motorola Mobility, the then owner or its bankruptcy trustee may attempt to reject the license, or a bankruptcy court may refuse to uphold the license or certain of its terms. Such a loss could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We contributed a significant portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, to Motorola Mobility and we are unable to leverage these intellectual property rights as we did prior to the distribution of Motorola Mobility. We contributed approximately 17,200 granted patents and approximately 8,000 pending patent applications worldwide to Motorola Mobility in connection with the distribution. Although we have a perpetual, royalty free license to these patents and other intellectual property rights, we no longer own them. As a result we are unable to leverage these intellectual property rights for purposes of generating licensing revenue or entering into favorable licensing arrangements with third parties. As a result we may incur increased license fees or litigation costs. Although we cannot predict the extent of such unanticipated costs, it is possible such costs could negatively impact our financial results. Completion of the distribution of Motorola Mobility may not enhance long term shareholder value. We completed the distribution of Motorola Mobility on January 4, 2011. At the time of this distribution, our board and management team, after consultation with independent financial and legal advisors, believed that the distribution of Motorola Mobility as planned would enhance long term shareholder value. There can be no assurance, however, that the combined value of our common stock and the common stock of Motorola Mobility will equal or exceed what the value of our common stock would have been in the absence of the distribution in the long term, particularly if the acquisition of Motorola Mobility by Google is not completed. The combined value of the common stock of the two companies could be lower than anticipated for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the inability of Motorola Mobility to complete its acquisition by Google or to compete effectively as an independent company. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2: Properties Motorola Solutions principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. Motorola Solutions also operates manufacturing facilities and sales offices in other U.S. locations and in many other countries. Table of Contents 23 As of December 31, 2011, we owned 19 facilities (manufacturing, sales, service and office), 15 of which were located in the Americas Region (USA, Canada, Mexico, Central and South America) and 4 of which were located in other countries. As of December 31, 2011, the Company leased 193 facilities, 91 of which were located in the Americas Region and 102 of which were located in other countries. As of December 31, 2011, we primarily utilized 6 major facilities for the manufacturing and distribution of our products, and these facilities were located in: Penang, Malaysia; Reynosa, Mexico; McAllen, Texas; Schaumburg, Illinois; Berlin, Germany; and Suzhou, China. Motorola Solutions generally considers the productive capacity of the plants operated by each of our business segments to be adequate and sufficient for the requirements of each business group. The extent of utilization of such manufacturing facilities varies from plant to plant and from time to time during the year. In 2011, a substantial portion of our products were manufactured in our own facilities in Mexico and Malaysia. A portion of our manufacturing is done by a small number of non affiliated electronics manufacturing suppliers and distribution and logistics services providers, most of which are outside the United States. We rely on these third party providers in order to enhance our ability to lower costs and deliver products that meet consumer demands. If manufacturing in our own facilities, or by third parties who manufacture and assemble approximately 20% of our products were disrupted, our overall productive capacity could be significantly reduced. Item 3: Legal Proceedings The proceedings referenced below refer to Motorola, Inc., our former name, and we have not changed the court descriptions to refer to Motorola Solutions, Inc. Silverman Federal Securities Class Action Case A purported class action lawsuit on behalf of the purchasers of Motorola securities between July 19, 2006 and January 5, 2007, Silverman v. Motorola, Inc., et al ., was filed against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors of the Company on August 9, 2007, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) and Rule 10b 5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as, in the case of the individual defendants, the control person provisions of the Securities Exchange Act. The factual assertions in the complaint consist primarily of the allegation that the defendants knowingly made incorrect statements concerning Motorolas projected revenues for the third and fourth quarter of 2006. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief relating to the purported inflation in the price of Motorola shares during the class period. An amended complaint was filed December 20, 2007, and Motorola moved to dismiss that complaint in February 2008. On September 24, 2008, the district court granted this motion in part to dismiss Section 10(b) claims as to two individuals and certain claims related to forward looking statements, among other things, and denied the motion in part. On August 25, 2009, the district court granted plaintiffs motion for class certification. On March 10, 2010, the district court granted plaintiffs motion to file a second amended complaint which adds allegations concerning Motorolas accounting and disclosures for certain transactions entered into in the third quarter of 2006. On February 16, 2011, the district court granted summary judgment to dismiss the remaining claims as to two individual defendants and the Section 10(b) claim as to a third individual, and denied the motion in part. On March 21, 2011, Motorola filed a motion for summary judgment on the remaining claims against the Company and other individual defendants. On July 25, 2011, the district court denied the motion for summary judgment. On February 1, 2012, the parties in the Silverman litigation signed a settlement agreement to resolve all claims in that case. The agreement has been submitted to the Court and is subject to preliminary and final approval. St. Lucie County Fire District Firefighters Pension Trust Fund Securities Class Action Case and Related Derivative Matter A purported class action lawsuit, St. Lucie County Fire District Firefighters Pension Fund v. Motorola, Inc., et al., was filed against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors of the Company on January 21, 2010, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaint was amended on June 11, 2010, and again on December 3, 2010. The alleged class included purchasers of Motorola securities between October 25, 2007 and January 23, 2008. The complaint alleged violations of Section 10(b) and Rule 10b 5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as, in the case of the individual defendants, the control person provisions of the Securities Exchange Act. The primary factual allegations were that the defendants Table of Contents 24 knowingly or recklessly made materially misleading statements concerning Motorolas financial projections and sales demand for Motorola phones during the class period. The complaint sought unspecified damages and other relief relating to the purported inflation in the price of Motorola shares during the class period. On February 28, 2011, the Court granted defendants motion to dismiss and dismissed the Second Amended Complaint in its entirety with prejudice. The related derivative matter, Waber v. Dorman, et al., was likewise dismissed with prejudice, and no appeal was taken. Plaintiffs in the St. Lucie matter subsequently filed a notice of appeal with the Seventh Circuit United States Court of Appeals. While the appeal was pending, the parties reached a settlement following mediation with a Court appointed mediator. On November 2, 2011, the District Court granted final approval of the settlement, entered final judgment, and dismissed the case. Groussman et al. v. Motorola ERISA Class Action Cases Two purported class action lawsuits on behalf of all participants in or beneficiaries of the Motorola 401(k) Plan (the Plan) between July 1, 2007 and the present and whose accounts included investments in Motorola stock, Joe M. Groussman v. Motorola, Inc. et al. and Angelo W. Orlando v. Motorola, Inc. et al., were filed against the Company and certain current and former officers, directors, and employees of the Company, the Motorola 401(k) Plan Committee, the Advisory Committee of Motorola and other unnamed defendants on February 10, 2010, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. On May 20, 2010, the court ordered the cases to be consolidated. On July 16, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. The amended complaint added as defendants additional current and former employees, the Compensation and Leadership Committee of Motorola, and the Motorola Retirement Benefits Committee, and deleted the Advisory Committee of Motorola as a defendant. The amended complaint also reduced the class period to run from July 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008. The consolidated amended complaint alleges violations of Sections 404 and 405 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). The primary claims in the amended complaint are that, in connection with alleged incorrect statements concerning Motorolas financial projections and demand for Motorola phones during the class period, various of the defendants failed to prudently and loyally manage the Plan by continuing to offer Motorola stock as a Plan investment option, failed to provide complete and accurate information regarding the performance of Motorola stock to the Plans participants and beneficiaries, failed to avoid conflicts of interest, and or failed to monitor the Plan fiduciaries. The amended complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief relating to purported losses to the Plan and individual participant accounts. On September 24, 2010, the Defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the Amended Complaint. On October 7, 2010, the court dismissed the Retirement Benefits Committee as a defendant. On January 18, 2011, the Court denied Defendants Motion to Dismiss the Amended Complaint. On March 14, 2011, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Class Certification, seeking certification of a class of all persons who were participants in, or beneficiaries of, the Motorola 401(k) Plan at any time between July 1, 2007 and December 31, 2008, and whose accounts included investments in Motorola stock, but excluding Defendants, members of their immediate families, any officer, director or partner of any Defendant, any entity in which a Defendant has a controlling interest, and the heirs, successors and assigns of the foregoing. On November 15, 2011, the court denied Plaintiffs motion for class certification and the Plaintiffs have not appealed that ruling. In ruling on the Defendants motion to strike certain allegations in the Amended Complaint pertaining to claims on behalf of the Plan, the court subsequently confirmed that this action is now brought only on behalf of individual named plaintiff s. Given that limitation, we do not believe the proceedings to be material to Motorola Solutions. Accordingly, we will no longer be reporting on this matter. Microsoft Corporation v. Motorola, Inc. On October 1, 2010, Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) filed complaints against Motorola, Inc. in the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) and the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington (District Court) alleging patent infringement based on products manufactured and sold by Motorola, Inc. The ITC matter is entitled In the Matter of Mobile Devices, Associated Software, and Components Thereof (Inv. No. 337 TA 744). On October 6, 2010 and October 12, 2010, Microsoft amended the District Court and ITC complaints, respectively, to add Motorola Mobility, Inc. as a defendant. The complaints, as amended, allege infringement of claims of nine patents based on Motorola, Inc.s and Motorola Mobility, Inc.s manufacture, sale and or importation of Android based mobile phones. The ITC complaint seeks exclusion and cease and desist orders. On November 5, 2010, the ITC instituted the investigation. The District Court complaint (No. C10 01577) seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. Table of Contents 25 On November 9, 2010, Microsoft filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington (No. C10 01823) against Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. (the Motorola Defendants) alleging that the Motorola Defendants breached a contractual obligation to license certain patents related to 802.11 wireless networking technology and H.264 video coding technology on reasonable and non discriminatory terms and conditions. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief including a declaration that the Motorola Defendants have not offered licenses to these patents to Microsoft under reasonable royalty rates, with terms and conditions that are demonstrably free of any unfair discrimination. On February 23, 2011, Microsoft amended the complaint to add General Instrument Corporation as a defendant. In November 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. and General Instrument Corporation filed complaints against Microsoft in the ITC and in the U.S. District Courts for the Southern District of Florida, Motorola Mobility, Inc. v. Microsoft Corporation and the Western District of Wisconsin, Motorola Mobility, Inc. and General Instrument Corporation v. Microsoft Corporation (No. 10 cv 699) and Motorola Mobility, Inc. and General Instrument Corporation v. Microsoft Corporation (No. 10 cv 700). The ITC matter is entitled In the Matter of Certain Gaming and Entertainment Consoles, Related Software, and Components Thereof (Inv. No. 337 TA 752). Among the complaints, Motorola Mobility, Inc. and General Instrument Corporation are asserting infringement of claims of sixteen patents by Microsofts PC and Server software, Windows mobile and smartphone software and Xbox products. The ITC complaint seeks exclusion and cease and desist orders directed to these products. On December 23, 2010, the ITC instituted the investigation. The District Court complaints seek monetary damages and injunctive relief. In December 2010 and February 2011, Motorola Mobility, Inc. subsequently asserted claims of five additional patents in the Western District of Wisconsin, Motorola Mobility, Inc. v. Microsoft Corporation (No. 10 cv 826). Between December 23, 2010 and January 25, 2011, Microsoft filed counterclaims against Motorola Mobility, Inc. in several of these actions, alleging infringement of a total of fourteen additional Microsoft patents. Two of the complaints filed by Motorola Mobility, Inc. and General Instrument Corporation in the Western District of Wisconsin have been transferred to the Western District of Washington. In late June 2011 Motorola Solutions, Inc., Motorola Mobility, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation filed a joint motion to remove Motorola Solutions, Inc. as a respondent in the ITC matter. That motion was subsequently approved by the Commission in early July 2011. As a result, Motorola Solutions, Inc. is no longer a participant in the ITC matter except with regard to the production of certain information dating from prior to January 4, 2011. Motorola Solutions, Inc. will not be bound by any remedy granted by the ITC, such as an exclusion order, unless Motorola Solutions, Inc. is importing and or reselling products made by Motorola Mobility, Inc. Although Motorola Solutions, Inc. remains a party to certain of the complaints filed in district courts referenced above, no Motorola Solutions products are subject to the matters and we do not believe the proceedings to be material to Motorola Solutions. Accordingly, we will no longer be reporting on these matters. Motorola Mobility, Inc. v. Apple Inc. On October 6, 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. filed a complaint for patent infringement against Apple Inc. with the ITC. The matter is entitled In the Matter of Certain Wireless Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing Devices, Computers and Components Thereof (Inv. No. 337 TA 745). On November 8, 2010, the ITC instituted the investigation. On October 6, 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. filed a complaint for patent infringement against Apple Inc. in Motorola Mobility, Inc. v Apple Inc., in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida (the Florida Complaint). On November 18, 2010, Apple counterclaimed in the Southern District of Florida, alleging infringement of six Apple patents by both Motorola, Incs and Motorola Mobility, Inc.s manufacture and sale of mobile devices, set top boxes and digital video recorders. On October 8, 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. filed a complaint for declaratory relief against Apple Inc. and NeXT Software, Inc. in Motorola Mobility, Inc. v. Apple Inc. and NeXT Software, Inc., in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint seeks a judgment declaring that Motorola Mobility, Inc. has not infringed, induced the infringement of, or contributed to the infringement of any valid, enforceable claim of twelve patents owned by Apple Inc. and NeXT Software, Inc. On December 2, 2010, Apple asserted these twelve patents against Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. in the Western District of Wisconsin, seeking to transfer the Delaware action to Wisconsin. On October 29, 2010, Apple Inc. filed two complaints for patent infringement against Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. in Apple Inc. v. Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc., in the United States District Table of Contents 26 Court for the Western District of Wisconsin. The complaints allege infringement of six patents by Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. The complaints allege that Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. directly infringes, contributorily infringes and or induces others to infringe the patents in suit by making, using, offering for sale and selling in the United States certain mobile devices and related software. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. On November 9, 2010, Motorola Mobility, Inc. filed counterclaims against Apple Inc. to their complaints alleging infringement of twelve Motorola Mobility, Inc. patents. On October 29, 2010, Apple Inc. filed a complaint alleging patent infringement against Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. with the United States International Trade Commission. The matter is entitled In the Matter of Certain Mobile Devices and Related Software (Inv. No. 337 TA 750). The complaint alleges infringement of three patents by Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. The complaint alleges that Motorola, Inc. and Motorola Mobility, Inc. directly infringe, contributorily infringe and or induce others to infringe the three patents by manufacturing, marketing and selling in the United States mobile devices, such as smartphones, and associated software, including operating systems, user interfaces, and other application software designed for use on, and loaded onto, such devices. The complaint seeks the issuance of an exclusion order barring from entry into the United States certain mobile devices and related software and a cease and desist order prohibiting Motorola, Inc. (now Motorola Solutions, Inc.) and Motorola Mobility, Inc. from importing, selling, transporting, and other related activities of certain mobile devices and related software. On November 30, 2010, the ITC instituted the investigation. On July 27, 2011 Motorola Solutions, Inc. filed an unopposed motion to remove Motorola Solutions, Inc. as a respondent in the ITC matter. The motion was subsequently approved by the Commission on August 15, 2011. As a result, Motorola Solutions, Inc. is no longer a participant in the ITC matter. Although Motorola Solutions, Inc. remains a party to certain of the complaints filed in district courts referenced above, no Motorola Solutions products are subject to the matters and we do not believe the proceedings to be material to Motorola Solutions. Accordingly, we will no longer be reporting on these matters. The Company is a defendant in various other suits, claims and investigations that arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of the Companys pending legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved. Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Table of Contents 27 Executive Officers of the Registrant Following are the persons who were the executive officers of Motorola Solutions as of February 14, 2012, their ages as of January 1, 2012, their current titles and positions they have held during the last five years: Gregory Q. Brown; age 51; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, since May 3, 2011; President and Chief Executive Officer from January 2011 to May 2011; Co Chief Executive Officer, Motorola, Inc. and Chief Executive Officer of Broadband Mobility Solutions from August 2008 to January 2011; President and Chief Executive Officer from January 2008 to August 2008; President and Chief Operating Officer from June 2007 to January 2008; Executive Vice President, President, Networks and Enterprise from June 2006 to June 2007. Michael D. Annes; age 48; Senior Vice President, Business Development and Ventures since July 26, 2011; Corporate Vice President, Business Development and Ventures, Motorola Solutions, Inc. from January 2011 to July 2011; Corporate Vice President, Business Development and Ventures, Motorola, Inc. from January 2009 to January 2011; Corporate Vice President, Law, Integrated Supply Chain from February 2005 to January 2009. Michele A. Carlin; age 50; Senior Vice President, Human Resources since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Motorola, Inc. from November 2009 to January 2011; Corporate Vice President, Human Resources, Global Rewards and HR Shared Services from July 2008 to October 2009; Vice President, Global Compensation, Benefits & HR Technology, Campbell Soup Company from June 2006 to July 2008. Eduardo F. Conrado; age 45; Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Motorola Solutions, Motorola, Inc. from September 2010 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, Enterprise Mobility Solutions and Home & Networks business from March 2009 to September 2010; Corporate Vice President, Marketing and Communications, Home and Networks Mobility Business from December 2007 to March 2009; Vice President, Global Marketing and Communications, Networks & Enterprise businesses from January 2006 to December 2007. Eugene A. Delaney; age 55; Executive Vice President, Product and Business Operations since January 4, 2011; Executive Vice President, Product and Business Operations, Enterprise Mobility Solutions, Motorola, Inc. from August 2010 to January 2011; Executive Vice President, President, Enterprise Mobility Solutions from January 2009 to August 2010; Senior Vice President, Government and Public Safety from May 2007 to January 2009; Senior Vice President, International Sales Operations, Networks and Enterprise from May 2006 to May 2007. Edward J. Fitzpatrick; age 45; Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since May 3, 2011; Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from January 2011 to May 2011; Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Motorola, Inc. from October 2009 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Acting Chief Financial Officer from February 2009 to October 2009; Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller from January 2009 to February 2009; Corporate Vice President, Finance, Home and Networks Mobility from January 2008 to January 2009; Vice President, Finance, Home and Networks Mobility from June 2007 to January 2008; Vice President, Finance and Controller, Networks and Enterprise from April 2006 to June 2007. Mark F. Moon; age 48; Executive Vice President, Sales and Field Operations since May 3, 2011; Senior Vice President, Sales and Field Operations from January 2011 to May 2011; Senior Vice President, Sales and Field Operations, Motorola Solutions, Motorola, Inc. from August 2010 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations, Enterprise Mobility Solutions business from April 2009 to August 2010; Senior Vice President, Government and Commercial Markets Americas, ASTRO Product Management, Enterprise Mobility Solutions Business from January 2008 to April 2009; Senior Vice President, NA and LAC Biometrics, ASTRO, PCR Product Management, Government and Public Safety Business, Enterprise Mobility Solutions Group from July 2007 to January 2008; Senior Vice President, North America Government and Commercial Markets, Networks and Enterprise Business from December 2006 to July 2007. Lewis A. Steverson; age 48; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary to the Board since January 4, 2011; Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Motorola Solutions, Motorola, Inc., from August 2010 to January 2011; Senior Vice President, Law, Enterprise Mobility Solutions business from April 2010 to August 2010; Corporate Vice President, Law, Broadband Mobility business from May 2007 to April 2010; Corporate Vice President, Law, Networks & Enterprise business from March 2006 to May 2007. Table of Contents 28 John K. Wozniak; age 40; Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since January 4, 2011; Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, Motorola, Inc. from November 2009 to January 2011; Vice President and Assistant Controller from March 2008 to November 2009; Senior Director of Technical Accounting and International Controller, Home and Networks Mobility from June 2007 to March 2008; Senior Director of Accounting and Transaction Support, Networks and Enterprise from May 2006 to June 2007. The above executive officers will serve as executive officers of Motorola Solutions until the regular meeting of the Board of Directors in May 2012 or until their respective successors shall have been elected. There is no family relationship between any of the executive officers listed above. Table of Contents 29 PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Motorola Solutions common stock is listed on the New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges. The number of stockholders of record of Motorola Solutions common stock on January 31, 2012 was 54,119. Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to the information under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information of Motorola Solutions Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The remainder of the response to this Item incorporates by reference Note 16, Quarterly and Other Financial Data (unaudited) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing under 
 
