ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Effective January 31, 1998, we changed our fiscal year end financial reporting period to a 52 or 53 week year ending on the last Sunday in January. We elected not to restate the previous reporting periods ending December 31. As a result, the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 1999 (year ended January 31, 1999) are 12 and 14 week periods, respectively, with the remaining quarters being 13 week periods. All four quarters of fiscal 2000, 2001 and 2002 (year ended January 27, 2002) are 13 week periods. Restatement We conducted a review of our accounting records and financial statements in response to an inquiry from the SEC. Based on the results of the review, we restated the financial statements and related disclosures for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2002 and for the fiscal years 2001 and 2000. All information, discussions and comparisons in this Form 10 K reflect the restatement. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying restated January 28, 2001 and January 30, 2000 consolidated financial statements as of and for the three years ended January 27, 2002. For additional information on the restatement, refer to Notes 2 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Overview We design, develop and market graphics and media communication processors and related software for personal computers, or PCs, workstations and digital entertainment platforms. We provide an architecturally compatible top to bottom family of award winning performance 3D graphics processors and GPUs that set the standard for performance, quality and features for a broad range of desktop PCs, from professional workstations to low cost PCs and mobile PCs, from performance laptops to thin and light notebooks. Our 3D graphics processors are used for a wide variety of applications, including games, digital image editing, business productivity, the Internet and industrial design. Our graphics processors are designed to be architecturally compatible backward and forward between generations, giving our original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, customers and end users a low cost of ownership. We have five major product brands: GeForce, nForce, GeForce Go, Quadro and TNT2. The GeForce family represents our desktop GPUs. We are recognized for developing the worlds first programmable GPUs, the GeForce4 and GeForce3. The GeForce4 and GeForce3 GPUs are designed to deliver the highest performance and cinematic quality for interactive entertainment, digital image editing and digital video playback applications through the use of highly programmable processing elements. The nForce and Xbox IGP and MCP are the industrys first highly integrated platform processors to incorporate a comprehensive set of multimedia capabilities, such as 2D, 3D, DVD, HDTV, Dolby Digital audio playback and fast broadband and networking communications. Our mobile product family, which consists of the GeForce 4 and GeForce2 Go GPUs, are designed to deliver desktop graphics performance and features for multiple laptop configurations from desktop replacements to thin and lights. The Quadro family of workstation GPUs consists of an extensive range of products for the high end, mid range, entry level, multi display 2D and digital content creation markets. The NVIDIA TNT2 family of graphics processors delivers high performance 3D and 2D graphics at affordable prices, making them the graphics hardware of choice for a wide range of applications for both consumer and commercial use. Our entire product family provides superior processing and rendering power at competitive prices and is architected to deliver the maximum performance from industry standards such as Microsofts Direct3D API and SGIs OpenGL API on Windows operating systems and Linux platforms. Currently, all of our product sales and our arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in U.S. dollars. We have not engaged in any foreign currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. Since the PC market is our core business, our business would suffer if for any reason our graphics processors do not achieve widespread acceptance in the PC market. 15 A majority of our sales have been to a limited number of customers and sales are highly concentrated. We sell graphics processors to add in board and motherboard manufacturers, primarily ASUSteK, and CEMs including Celestica, Mitac, Micro Star, SCI and VisionTek. These manufacturers incorporate our processors in the boards they sell to PC OEMs, retail outlets and systems integrators. The average selling prices for our products, as well as our customers products, vary by distribution channel. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 44% of revenues for fiscal 2002. Sales to Edom accounted for 20%, sales to Micro Star accounted for 14% and sales to Atlantic accounted for 10% of our total revenue for fiscal 2002. For fiscal 2001, sales to Edom accounted for 25% and sales to Celestica accounted for 11% of total revenue. For fiscal 2000, sales to Creative accounted for 17%, sales to Edom and sales to Diamond, Inc. each accounted for 15% and sales to ASUSteK accounted for 10% of total revenue. Although we have major customers, our end customers include Acer, Apple, Compaq, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu Siemens, Gateway, HP, IBM, Micron, NEC, Packard Bell, SGI and Sony. As markets for our 3D graphics processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles in the high end will remain short and average selling prices will continue to decline. In particular, average selling prices and gross margins are expected to decline as each product matures. Our add in board and motherboard manufacturers and major OEM customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year for the high end, typically based on spring and fall design cycles. In order to maintain average selling prices and gross margins, our existing and new products must achieve competitive performance levels to be designed into new system configurations and must be produced at low costs, in sufficient volumes and on a timely basis, especially with respect to our new products. We currently utilize Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, to produce semiconductor wafers and we utilize independent contractors to perform assembly, testing and packaging. Substantially all of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long term agreements. As a result, we may commit resources to the production of products without having received advance purchase commitments from customers. Any inability to sell products to which we have devoted significant resources could harm our business. In addition, cancellation or deferral of product orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could harm our profit margins and restrict our ability to fund operations. We may build memory and component inventories during periods of anticipated growth and in connection with selling workstation boards directly to major OEMs. We could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding write downs if growth slows or if we incorrectly forecast product demand. A reduction in demand could negatively impact our gross margins and financial results. Product returns or delays or difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could result in significant charges against income, which could harm our business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to customer programs, revenue recognition, sales returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We have a relatively short operating history on which to base judgments and actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of consolidated financial statements. 16 Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the price is fixed and determinable and collection is reasonably assured. Our policy on sales to distributors and stocking representatives is to defer recognition of sales and related cost of sales until the distributors and representatives resell the product. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs at the time revenue is recognized. If market conditions decline, we may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. We also record a reduction to revenue for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized based on historical return rates and analysis. For all sales, we use a binding purchase order and in certain cases we use a contractual agreement as evidence of an arrangement. We consider delivery to occur upon shipment provided title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. At the point of sale, we assess whether the arrangement fee is fixed and determinable and whether collection is reasonably assured. If we determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the fee and recognize revenue at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Our reserve consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required which could adversely affect our operating results. Inventory We write down our inventory for estimated lower of cost or market, obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required which could adversely affect our operating results. If actual market conditions are more favorable, we will have higher gross margins when products are sold. Tax Valuation Allowance We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of net recorded amount, an adjustment to the net deferred tax asset would increase net income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. 17 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our consolidated statements of income expressed as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended January 27, 2002 Year Ended January 28, 2001 Year Ended January 30, 2000  (As restated see Note 2) (As restated see Note 2) Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 62.1 62.9 62.1 Gross profit 37.9 37.1 37.9 Operating expenses: Research and development 11.2 11.7 12.5 Sales, general and administrative 7.1 8.0 9.7 Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangible assets 0.9 Acquisition related charges 0.7 Discontinued use of property 0.3 Total operating expenses 20.2 19.7 22.2 Operating income 17.7 17.4 15.7 Interest and other income, net 0.8 2.3 0.5 Income before income tax expense 18.5 19.7 16.2 Income tax expense 5.5 6.3 5.2 Net income 13.0 % 13.4 % 11.0 % Fiscal Years Ended January 27, 2002, January 28, 2001, and January 30, 2000 Revenue Revenue was $1.37 billion in fiscal 2002, $735.3 million in fiscal 2001, and $374.5 million in fiscal 2000. Product revenues increased by 86% from fiscal 2001 to 2002, and 96% from fiscal 2000 to 2001. The growth was primarily the result of increased sales of our graphics processors driven by the strong demand for our products in the PC, workstation and mobile laptop markets and the introduction of our graphics processors into the game console market. Revenue from sales outside of the United States accounted for 82% and 89% of total revenue for fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. Geographic sales are based on bill to address and this decrease in revenue from sales outside of the United States is primarily attributable to sales of the graphics and media communication processors used in the Microsoft Xbox product billed to Microsoft in the United States. Revenue by geographical region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the foreign CEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers revenue is attributable to end customers located in the United States. Although we achieved substantial growth in product revenue from fiscal 2001 to 2002 and fiscal 2000 to 2001, we do not expect to sustain this rate of growth in future periods. In addition, we expect that the average selling prices of our products will decline over the lives of the products. The declines in average selling prices of 3D graphics processors in general may accelerate as the market continues to develop and competition increases. Gross Profit Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from contract manufacturers (including assembly, testing and packaging), manufacturing support costs (including labor and overhead associated with such purchases), final test yield fallout, inventory provisions and shipping costs. Our gross profit margin can vary in any period 18 depending on the mix of types of graphics processors sold. Our gross profit margins were 37.9%, 37.1% and 37.9% in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Gross profit increased 90% from fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2002 due to an increase in unit shipments and the favorable impact of the higher margin GeForce graphics processors, partially offset by increased sales of the lower margin Xbox graphics and media communication processors. Gross profit increased 92% from fiscal 2000 to 2001, primarily due to significant increases in unit shipments and the favorable impact of the higher margin GeForce graphics processors, partially offset by declining profit margins in our older product families. Although we achieved substantial growth in gross profit in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, we do not expect to sustain these rates of growth in future periods. Operating Expenses Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist of salaries and benefits, cost of development tools and software, cost of new product prototypes and consultant costs. Research and development expenses increased by $67.9 million, or 79%, from fiscal 2001 to 2002 primarily due to a $31.9 million increase related to additional personnel, including certain employees hired from 3dfx in connection with our acquisition of certain of their assets as discussed below, a $13.5 million increase associated with lab equipment, software licenses, maintenance fees and depreciation charges, a $11.7 million increase related to engineering costs to develop our next generation products, and a $10.8 million increase in facilities costs due to the move into our new headquarters and other expenses during the year. Research and development expenses increased by $39.1 million, or 83%, from fiscal 2000 to 2001, primarily due to the addition of personnel and related engineering costs to support our next generation products, such as depreciation charges incurred on capital expenditures and software license and maintenance fees. We anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development. Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenues. Sales, General and Administrative. Sales, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions and bonuses, promotional tradeshow and advertising expenses, travel and entertainment expenses and legal and accounting expenses. Sales, general and administrative expenses increased $38.5 million, or 66%, from fiscal 2001 to 2002 primarily due to a $21.5 million increase related to additional personnel and commissions, a $6.2 million increase in tradeshow and product launch costs, and a $10.8 million increase in facilities costs due to the move into our new headquarters and other increases associated with general administrative activities, American Red Cross donation associated with the events of September 11, 2001, and travel and entertainment expenses. Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by $22.4 million, or 62%, from fiscal 2000 to 2001, primarily due to costs associated with additional personnel, commissions on sales of the NVIDIA TNT2 and GeForce families of graphic processors and bonuses. We expect sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to expand our operations and our sales. General and administrative expenses are also likely to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to expand our operations and to be affected by legal and accounting expenses incurred in connection with our recent internal accounting review. Discontinued Use of Property Discontinued use of property consists of write offs of $3.7 million relating to our previous office space in Santa Clara, California. Since we relocated in June 2001, we have been unable to secure a subtenant for our previous office space due to the decrease in demand for commercial rental space in Silicon Valley. The write offs consist of all remaining costs related to the preexisting lease, including rental payments, capitalized leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. 19 Amortization of Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangible assets consist primarily of goodwill and intangible assets from the asset purchase from 3dfx. The initial allocation of the purchase price was (a) $3.0 million to workforce in place, amortized over two years; (b) $11.3 million to patents and trademarks, amortized over five years; and (c) $57.4 million to goodwill, amortized over five years. Additional consideration is potentially payable to 3dfx, subject to 3dfx satisfying certain conditions. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. (SFAS) 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, amounts allocated to workforce will be reclassified into goodwill and all goodwill will no longer be amortized beginning fiscal year 2003. These assets will be assessed for impairment at least on an annual basis. Acquisition Related Charges Acquisition related charges are attributable to expenses related to the acquisition of assets of 3dfx. These charges primarily consisted of bonuses for former 3dfx employees. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income primarily consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest expense primarily consists of interest incurred as a result of capital lease obligations and interest on our convertible debt. Interest income increased $6.4 million from fiscal 2001 to 2002 due to higher average cash balances as a result of a $200.0 million advance received from Microsoft in connection with our agreement with Microsoft and the receipt of $387.4 million from our 4% convertible subordinated note and common stock offerings, which both closed in October 2000. Interest expense increased in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 due to the issuance of $300.0 million of 4% convertible subordinated notes in October 2000. Income Taxes We had income tax expense of $75.8 million, $46.3 million and $19.4 million in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 respectively. Income taxes as a percentage of pretax income were 30.0% in fiscal 2002, 32.0% in fiscal 2001 and 32.2% in fiscal 2000. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to increased foreign income, which is taxed at rates lower than the statutory rates in the United States. Amortization of Stock Based Compensation With respect to stock options granted to employees, we recorded deferred compensation of $4.3 million in 1997 and $361,000 in the one month ended January 31, 1998. These amounts were amortized over the vesting period of the individual options, generally four years. We amortized approximately $6,000 in fiscal 2002, $112,000 in fiscal 2001 and $662,000 in fiscal 2000. Deferred compensation was fully amortized in fiscal 2002. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 27, 2002, we had $791.4 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $117.1 million from the end of fiscal 2001. We historically have held our cash balances in cash or cash equivalents, such as money market funds. In August 2001, we began to invest in marketable securities. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed by several financial institutions. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset type and limits on our portfolio duration. 20 Operating activities generated cash of $160.8 million, $267.9 million and $15.9 million during fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The $267.9 million in fiscal 2001 includes the $200.0 million advance from Microsoft. The decrease from fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2002 was due to the draw down of the $200.0 million advance from Microsoft, offset by the increase in net income and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Income tax benefit derived from the difference between the exercise price and the fair value of acquired stock in association with employees exercise of stock options totaled $88.9 million in fiscal 2002 compared to $63.2 million in fiscal 2001. The increase from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2001 was due to a substantial increase in net income, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated. At January 27, 2002, Micro Star and Edom accounted for approximately 16% and 14% of accounts receivable, respectively. We may be required to write off bad debts in the future, which could harm our business. Our investing activities have consisted primarily of the purchase of certain assets from various businesses, investments in marketable securities, and purchases of property and equipment and leasehold improvements for our new facility. We incurred acquisition costs of $64.1 million during fiscal 2002, primarily due to purchase of assets from 3dfx. There were no significant asset purchase transactions in the prior years. We purchased marketable securities totaling approximately $472.9 million during fiscal 2002. We incurred $97.0 million, $36.3 million and $11.6 million in capital expenditures in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, primarily attributable to our new facility as well as for purchases of computer and emulation equipment to support increased research and development. We expect capital expenditures to increase as we further expand research and development initiatives and as our employee base grows. The timing and amount of future capital expenditures will depend primarily on our future growth. We expect to spend approximately $70.0 million to $80.0 million for capital expenditures in fiscal 2003, primarily for software licenses, emulation equipment, purchase of computer and engineering workstations, future phases of our enterprise resource planning system implementation, and tenant and leasehold improvements in our new headquarters facility. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of businesses or assets. In April 2000, we entered into leases for our new headquarters complex in Santa Clara, California. Our new complex comprises four buildings, representing approximately 500,000 total square feet. The first phase of two buildings consisting of approximately 250,000 square feet was completed in June 2001, and the second phase of one building consisting of approximately 125,000 square feet was completed in July 2001. Restricted cash deposits of $17.5 million were released upon completion of the first and second phases. The last phase consisting of approximately 125,000 square feet was completed in February 2002. The $7.0 million in restricted cash relating to letters of credit in place for the developer of the new facility is expected to be released in May 2002. The leases expire in 2012 and include two seven year renewals at our option. The future minimum lease payments under these operating leases total approximately $224.3 million over the terms of the leases. Financing activities provided cash of $99.1 million during fiscal 2002 compared to $405.6 million in fiscal 2001 and $7.0 million in fiscal 2000. On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed, under certain terms and conditions, to develop and sell processors for use in the Xbox video game console. In April 2000, Microsoft paid us $200.0 million under the agreement as an advance against processor purchases. This advance has been fully utilized due to purchases made by Microsoft through the quarter ended April 28, 2002 and Microsoft is currently paying in advance for processor chipsets sold to it. We have been engaged with Microsoft in discussions related to pricing and volumes of the Xbox chipset sold to them by NVIDIA. These discussions and our agreement with Microsoft contemplated use of a third party to resolve matters and on April 23, 2002 Microsoft submitted the matter to binding arbitration. Microsoft has requested that the arbitration panel require that we supply chipsets in whatever quantities are ordered by Microsoft. Microsoft has also asked for damages for alleged violations of the agreement and requested that the arbitration panel reduce chipset prices paid by Microsoft. We do not believe we have a requirements obligation to Microsoft and we plan to submit our position to the arbitration panel shortly. For sales of the Xbox media communication processor, we have deferred revenue in an amount equal to the difference between the price being paid by Microsoft and the price Microsoft claims it should be paying. This amount was approximately $13.2 million as of January 27, 2002, the end of our fiscal 2002. We expect that we will continue to defer such amount on future sales of this processor until resolution of the matter. 21 Common Stock and Convertible Subordinated Note Offering In October 2000, we sold 2,800,000 shares of our common stock and $300.0 million of convertible subordinated notes due October 15, 2007 in a public offering. Proceeds from the offering were approximately $387.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. Issuance costs related to the offering are being amortized to interest expense on a straight line basis over the term of the notes. Interest on the convertible subordinated notes accrues at the rate of 4 3/4% per annum and is payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing April 15, 2001. The convertible subordinated notes are redeemable at our option on or after October 20, 2003. The notes are convertible at the option of the holder at any time prior to the close of business on the maturity date, unless previously redeemed or repurchased, into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $46.36 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. 3dfx Asset Purchase On April 18, 2001, we completed the purchase of certain assets of 3dfx, including patents and patent applications. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, the cash consideration due at the closing was $70.0 million, less $15.0 million that was loaned to 3dfx pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated December 15, 2000, between us and 3dfx. Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, following the closing, we are to pay 3dfx additional consideration in the form of stock equal to two million shares of NVIDIA common stock, subject to 3dfx satisfying certain conditions. If the debts and liabilities of 3dfx can be satisfied for less than $25.0 million and in accordance with the provisions as set forth in the agreement, under some circumstances, 3dfx could receive a post closing advance from us of up to $25.0 million and this advance would reduce the number of shares of NVIDIA common stock potentially payable to 3dfx by up to one million shares. In the event 3dfx cannot satisfy all of its obligations for $25.0 million, NVIDIA will not be obligated to pay any additional consideration. At this time, 3dfx has not satisfied all terms and conditions necessary to receive any contingent consideration. Consequently, due to the possibility of contingent consideration, the components of the final purchase price could differ from those presented in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The transaction is accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. As a result, this purchase transaction has impacted our working capital in fiscal year 2002 and may have further impact if the additional conditions are met by 3dfx. Contractual Cash Obligations The following summarizes our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of January 27, 2002 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods: Contractual Cash Obligations Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years (in thousands) Interest on note obligation (1) $ 81,938 $ 14,250 $ 28,500 $ 28,500 $ 10,688 3dfx post closing advance (2) 25,000 25,000 Interest on capital lease obligations 1,118 700 418 Operating leases 234,797 20,772 43,486 44,866 125,673 Purchase obligations (3) 540,950 540,950 Royalty and maintenance commitments 3,368 1,509 1,609 250 Other long term obligations 975 325 650 Total contractual cash obligations $ 888,146 $ 603,506 $ 74,663 $ 73,616 $ 136,361 (1) Our convertible subordinated notes due 2007 possess a fixed interest rate of 4%. The amount of interest obligation assumes that the notes are held until maturity and not redeemed or converted into 22 shares of common stock at an earlier date. The convertible subordinated notes are redeemable at our option on or after October 20, 2003. The notes are convertible at the option of the holder at any time prior to the close of business on the maturity date. As such, actual future cash obligations may be significantly lower. (2) If the debts and liabilities of 3dfx cannot be satisfied, under some circumstances, 3dfx could receive a post closing advance from us of up to $25.0 million and this advance would reduce the number of shares of common stock potentially payable to 3dfx by up to one million shares. (3) Represents our noncancelable inventory purchase commitments at January 27, 2002. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, which could harm our business. Factors which could affect our cash used or generated from operations and as a result, our need to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume our next generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. For additional factors see Business Risk Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors our stock price could decline. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information regarding recent accounting pronouncements is set forth in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading New Accounting Pronouncements, which information is hereby incorporated by reference. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk We invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the U.S. Government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in U.S. dollars. We account for our investment instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale under SFAS No. 115. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates; however, we reduce our interest rate risk by investing cash primarily in instruments with short maturities. As of January 27, 2002, a sensitivity analysis was performed on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. Parallel shifts in the yield curve of both +/ 50 basis points would result in 23 changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $2.8 million. However, because our debt securities are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are recognized unless such securities are sold. The average holding periods until maturity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities were approximately 10 and 591 days, respectively. The principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio were $340.2 million and 1.8% for cash equivalents, and $458.4 million and 4.6% for marketable securities as of January 27, 2002. Our convertible subordinated notes due 2007 possess a fixed interest rate of 4% and are not subject to interest rate fluctuations. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in U.S. dollars, and therefore are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. Business Risks In addition to the risks discussed in Business and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our business is subject to the risks set forth below. Risks Related to Our Operations Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors our stock price could decline. Many of our revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. It is therefore difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations will be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. Factors that have affected our results of operations in the past, and could affect our results of operations in the future, include the following: demand and market acceptance for our products and or our customers products; the successful development and volume production of next generation products; new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors; our ability to introduce new products in accordance with OEM design requirements and design cycles; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers products; fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields; declines in spending by corporations and consumers related to perceptions regarding an economic downturn in the U.S. and international economies; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; 24 product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; the rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; the loss of a key customer or the termination of a strategic relationship; seasonal fluctuations associated with the PC market; substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, equipment failure, terrorism or other cause; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our customers products, including memory devices; our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products; legal and other costs related to defending intellectual property and other types of lawsuits; bad debt write offs; costs associated with the repair and replacement of defective products; unexpected inventory write downs; and introductions of enabling technologies to keep pace with faster generations of processors and controllers. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. Our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and we order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. Therefore, we have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, and we may be unable to adjust spending sufficiently in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall. Substantially all of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long term agreements. As a result, we may commit resources to the production of products without having received advance purchase commitments from customers. Any inability to sell products to which we have devoted significant resources could harm our business. In addition, cancellation or deferral of product orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our profit margins and restrict our ability to fund operations. We may build memory and component inventories during periods of anticipated growth and in connection with selling workstation boards directly to major OEMs. We could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding write downs if growth slows or if we incorrectly forecast product demand. A reduction in demand could negatively impact our gross margins and financial results. We may be required to reduce prices in response to competition or to pursue new market opportunities. If new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development or sales and marketing efforts, our business could suffer. Accordingly, we believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. We need to develop new products and to manage product transitions in order to succeed. Our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to successfully develop new products for the 3D graphics market. Our add in board and motherboard manufacturers and major OEM customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles. 25 Accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. This requires that we do the following: anticipate the features and functionality that consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionality into products that meet the exacting design requirements of PC OEMs, CEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers; price our products competitively; and introduce the products to the market within the limited window for PC OEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers. As a result, we believe that significant expenditures for research and development will continue to be required in the future. The success of new product introductions will depend on several factors, including the following: proper new product definition; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; the ability of TSMC and any additional third party manufacturers to effectively manufacture our new products in a timely manner; the quality of any new products; differentiation of new products from those of our competitors; market acceptance of our products and our customers products; and availability of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory products. Our strategy is to utilize the most advanced semiconductor process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third party foundries. Use of advanced processes has in the past resulted in initial yield problems. New products that we introduce may not incorporate the features and functionality demanded by PC OEMs, add in board and motherboard manufacturers and consumers of 3D graphics. In addition, we may not successfully develop or introduce new products in sufficient volumes within the appropriate time to meet both the PC OEMs design cycles and market demand. We have in the past experienced delays in the development of some new products. Our failure to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new 3D graphics products would harm our business. Our failure to identify new product opportunities or develop new products could harm our business. As markets for our 3D graphics processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain short and average selling prices will continue to decline. In particular, we expect average selling prices and gross margins for our 3D graphics processors to decline as each product matures and as unit volume increases. As a result, we will need to introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain overall average selling prices and gross margins. In order for our 3D graphics processors to achieve high volumes, leading PC OEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers must select our 3D graphics processor for design into their products, and then successfully complete the designs of their products and sell them. We may be unable to successfully identify new product opportunities or to develop and bring to market in a timely fashion any new products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any new products we develop will be selected for design into PC OEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers products, that any new designs will be successfully completed or that any new products will be sold. As the complexity of our products and the manufacturing process for products increases, there is an increasing risk that we will experience problems with the performance of products and that there will be delays in the development, introduction or volume shipment of our products. We may experience difficulties related to the production of 26 current or future products or other factors may delay the introduction or volume sale of new products we developed. In addition, we may be unable to successfully manage the production transition risks with respect to future products. Failure to achieve any of the foregoing with respect to future products or product enhancements could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced margins, and reduced demand for products or loss of market share. In addition, technologies developed by others may render our 3D graphics products non competitive or obsolete or result in our holding excess inventory, any of which would harm our business. We could suffer a loss of market share if our products contain significant defects. Products as complex as those offered by us may contain defects or failures when introduced or when new versions or enhancements to existing products are released. We have in the past discovered defects and incompatibilities with customers hardware in certain of our products and may experience delays or lost revenue to correct any new defects in the future. Errors in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments could result in loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. Our products typically go through only one verification cycle prior to beginning volume production and distribution. As a result, our products may contain defects or flaws that are undetected prior to volume production and distribution. If these defects or flaws exist and are not detected prior to volume production and distribution, we may be required to reimburse customers for costs to repair or replace the affected products in the field. These costs could be significant and could adversely affect our business and operating results. The production and distribution of defective products could harm our business. Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for existing and or new products would reduce our gross margins. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function both of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. Since low yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify process sensitivities relating to the design rules that are used. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process, and resolution of yield problems would require cooperation by and communication between us and the manufacturer. The risk of low yields is compounded by the offshore location of most of our manufacturers, increasing the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. Because of our potentially limited access to wafer fabrication capacity from our manufacturers, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. This could potentially harm customer relationships as well as revenue and gross profit. Our wafer manufacturers may be unable to achieve or maintain acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. Our inability to achieve planned yields from our wafer manufacturers could harm our business. We also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. In the event of a significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall, our business could suffer. Failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could affect our ability to compete effectively. Our strategy is to utilize the most advanced process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third party foundries. Use of advanced processes may have greater risk of initial yield problems. Manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development. We continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. We currently use .15 micron process technology for the GeForce4, Quadro4, GeForce3, Quadro DCC, Xbox and nForce families of graphics processors, and we believe that the transition of our products to increasingly smaller geometries will be important to our competitive 27 position. We are currently evaluating and qualifying the .13 micron process technology for products that are estimated to begin commercial shipment later in our fiscal 2003. Other companies in the industry have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. We may experience similar difficulties and the corresponding negative effects. Moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with our third party manufacturers to migrate to smaller geometry processes successfully. We may be unable to migrate to new manufacturing process technologies successfully or on a timely basis. We may be unable to manage our growth and, as a result, may be unable to successfully implement our strategy. Our rapid growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. As of January 27, 2002, we had 1,123 employees as compared to 796 employees as of January 28, 2001. We expect that the number of our employees will increase substantially over the next 12 months. Our future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information and control systems on a timely basis, as well as our ability to maintain effective cost controls. Further, we will be required to manage multiple relationships with various customers and other third parties. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations and our management may be unable to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement our strategy. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these employees could harm our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. None of our officers or employees is bound by an employment agreement, and so our relationships with these officers and employees are at will. We do not have key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees, particularly Jen Hsun Huang, our President and Chief Executive Officer, would harm our business. Our success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Our failure to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel would harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. Our reliance on foreign third party manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging operations subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the United States, including the following: unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; longer payment cycles; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and other factors beyond our control, including terrorism, which may delay the shipment of our products. We also are subject to general political risks in connection with our international trade relationships. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. Currently, all of our arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in U.S. dollars, and to date we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. 28 Failure in operation or future enhancement or implementation of our enterprise resource planning system could harm our operations. We are heavily dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal systems to conduct our business. System failure or malfunction may result in disruptions of operations and inability to process transactions. Our results of operations and financial position could be harmed if we encounter unforeseen problems with respect to system operations or future implementations. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions include the following: the ability of the board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board of directors; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to Microsoft and its licensees for use in a product under development by Microsoft. In the event that an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft has first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The provision could also delay or prevent a change in control of our company. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions and that could hurt our ability to grow our business and sell our products. In the past we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believed would help expand or enhance our products and services or help expand our distribution channels. For any previous or future acquisition or investment, the following risks could impair our ability to grow our business and develop new products and, ultimately, could impair our ability to sell our products: difficulty in combining the technology, operations or workforce of the acquired business; disruption of our ongoing businesses; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and possible impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new businesses and management personnel. In addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock. If the consideration is paid with our common stock, existing stockholders would be further diluted. Risks Related to Our Partners We are dependent on a small number of customers and we are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. We have only a limited number of customers and our sales are highly concentrated. We primarily sell our products to add in board and motherboard manufacturers and CEMs, which incorporate graphics products in the boards they sell to PC OEMs and system builders. Sales to add in board and motherboard manufacturers and CEMs are primarily dependent on achieving design wins with leading PC OEMs. The number of add in board 29 and motherboard manufacturers, CEMs and leading PC OEMs is limited. We expect that a small number of add in board and motherboard manufacturers and CEMs directly, and a small number of PC OEMs indirectly, will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, our business could be harmed by the loss of business from PC OEMs or add in board and motherboard manufacturers and CEMs. In addition, revenue from add in board and motherboard manufacturers, CEMs and PC OEMs that have directly or indirectly accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or may not reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. Our business may be harmed by instability in Asia due to the concentration of customers who are located or have substantial operations in Asia, including Taiwan. The Peoples Republic of China and Taiwan have in the past experienced strained relations. A worsening of these relationships or the development of hostilities between the two could result in disruptions in Taiwan and possibly other areas of Asia, which could harm our business. In addition, if relations between the U.S. and The Peoples Republic of China become strained, our business could be harmed. While we believe political instability in Asia has not harmed our business, because of our reliance on companies with operations in Asia, continued economic and political instability in Asia might harm it. We rely on third party vendors to supply us tools for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop these products. In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third party software development tools. While we currently are not dependent on any one vendor for the supply of these tools, some or all of these tools may not be readily available in the future. For example, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products in the past as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. The design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from 3D graphics products in the future may exceed the capabilities of the software development tools available to us. If the software development tools we use become unavailable or fail to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could suffer. We may not be successful in producing the processors in volumes required for Microsofts Xbox and, even if successful we may not achieve profit margins consistent with managements expectations. Our Xbox IGP and MCP are new and complicated processors. Both processors have increased in complexity and features from what was contemplated at the time we entered into the agreement with Microsoft. There can be no assurance that we will be able to produce these processors in the volume necessary and within the required time frames or that the payments for these processors will be consistent with profit margins achieved on our other products. Finally, there can be no assurance that the Xbox program will achieve long term commercial success, given the high level of competition in the game console market. If any of these risks occur, our business may be harmed. We may not prevail in the arbitration with Microsoft over pricing of the Xbox chipset and even if we do prevail, there is no assurance that our business will not be materially harmed. We have been engaged with Microsoft in discussions related to pricing and volumes of the Xbox chipset. These discussions and our agreement contemplated use of a third party to resolve matters and on April 23, 2002 Microsoft submitted the matter to binding arbitration. Microsoft has requested that the arbitration panel require that we supply chipsets in whatever quantities are ordered by Microsoft. Microsoft has also asked for damages for alleged violations of the agreement and requested that the arbitration panel reduce chipset prices paid by Microsoft. We do not believe we have a requirements obligation to Microsoft and we plan to submit our position to the arbitration panel shortly. For sales of the Xbox media communication processor, we have deferred revenue in an amount equal to the difference between the price being paid by Microsoft and the price Microsoft claims it should be paying. This amount was approximately $13.2 million as of January 27, 2002, the end of our fiscal 30 2002. We expect that we will continue to defer such amount on future sales of this processor until resolution of the matter. The arbitration will be conducted in New York by a panel under the rules of the American Arbitration Association. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in the arbitration or continue to supply graphics and other processors for the Xbox. If we do not prevail, we may (i) be compelled to deliver Xbox processors at reduced pricing, resulting in reduced gross margins, or a loss, on such processors; (ii) be required to reduce production and delivery of other products in order to satisfy obligations to Microsoft; (iii) be required to pay significant damages to Microsoft; or (iv) be subject to other remedies that could have a material adverse impact on our business. Even if we do prevail, there can be no assurance that our business will not be materially harmed. We depend on foreign foundries and independent contractors to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. We do not manufacture the semiconductor wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. Our products require wafers manufactured with state of the art fabrication equipment and techniques. We utilize TSMC to produce our semiconductor wafers and utilize independent contractors to perform assembly, testing and packaging. We depend on these suppliers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields, and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis. These manufacturers may be unable to meet our near term or long term manufacturing requirements. We obtain manufacturing services on a purchase order basis and TSMC has no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantities of product. TSMC fabricates wafers for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and could choose to prioritize capacity for other users or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. Because the lead time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner could be several quarters, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. We believe that long term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with TSMC and any other manufacturers used by us to ensure adequate product supply to respond to customer demand. Because of our reliance on TSMC, our business may be harmed by political instability in Taiwan, including the worsening of the strained relations between The Peoples Republic of China and Taiwan, or if relations between the U.S. and The Peoples Republic of China are strained due to foreign relations events. Furthermore, any substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, political unrest, economic instability, equipment failure or other cause, could harm our business. We are dependent primarily on TSMC and we expect in the future to continue to be dependent upon third party manufacturers to do the following: produce wafers of acceptable quality and with acceptable manufacturing yields; deliver those wafers to us and our independent assembly and testing subcontractors on a timely basis; and allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs. Our wafer requirements represent a significant portion of the total production capacity of TSMC. Although our products are designed using TSMCs process design rules, TSMC may be unable to achieve or maintain acceptable yields or deliver sufficient quantities of wafers on a timely basis and or at an acceptable cost. Additionally, TSMC may not continue to devote resources to the production of our products, or to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of our products are based. Any difficulties like these would harm our business. We are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products. Our graphics processors are assembled and tested by Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd., ChipPAC Incorporated and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering. We do not have long term agreements with 31 any of these subcontractors. As a result of our dependence on third party subcontractors for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, we do not directly control product delivery schedules or product quality. Any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products and could harm our business. Due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in the shipment of our products if we are required to find alternative third parties to assemble or test our products or components. Any delays in delivery of our products could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Competition The 3D graphics industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete. The market for 3D graphics processors for PCs in which we compete is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward forward software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, price of graphics processors and total system costs of add in boards and motherboards. We expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than our 3D graphics processors, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. We may be unable to compete successfully in the emerging PC graphics market. Our primary source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide 3D graphics solutions for the PC market. Our competitors include the following: suppliers of integrated core logic chipsets that incorporate 2D and 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as Intel, Silicon Integrated Systems and Via Technologies, Inc. or Via; suppliers of graphics add in boards that utilize their internally developed graphics chips, such as ATI Technologies Inc. and Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd.; suppliers of mobile graphics processors that incorporate 2D or 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI Technologies, Trident Microsystems, Inc. and the joint venture of a division of SONICblue Incorporated (formerly S3 Incorporated) and Via Technologies; and companies that have traditionally focused on the professional market and provide high end 3D solutions for PCs and workstations, including 3Dlabs and ATI Technologies Inc. If and to the extent we offer products outside of the 3D graphics processor market, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. We cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. We may not successfully compete with Intel in the integrated chipset market. It is projected by analysts that integrated chipsets are likely to become a majority share of the PC graphics market. We have recently introduced and begun shipment of the nForce platform processor, an integrated 3D graphics chipset. The nForce platform processor is initially designed to support microprocessors produced by AMD. Intel is the dominant supplier of integrated 3D graphics chipsets and has commenced production of an integrated chipset for its Pentium 4 microprocessor. Intel has significantly greater resources than we do, and the nForce platform processor, or other 3D graphics products that we may introduce, may not compete effectively against Intels current chipset products or its future products, either in terms of price or performance. In addition, due to the widespread industry acceptance of Intels microprocessor architecture and interface architecture, including its accelerated graphics port architecture, or AGP, Intel exercises significant influence over the PC industry and over companies developing products for such architecture. Any significant 32 modifications by Intel to the AGP, the microprocessor or core logic components or other aspects of the PC microprocessor architecture could result in incompatibility with our technology, which would harm our business. In addition, any delay in the public release of information relating to modifications like this could harm our business. In addition to its influence over the PC architecture, Intel has asserted intellectual property rights in various PC architecture interfaces. For example, as a result of patents held by Intel, it has asserted that companies wishing to develop a chipset compatible with the Pentium 4 microprocessor or similar microprocessors obtain a license from Intel. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward forward software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, price of graphics processors and total system costs of add in boards and motherboards. In September 2001 Intel filed a patent infringement suit against Via with respect to a Via chipset for the Pentium 4. We do not have a license from Intel for such a chipset. We expect Intel to continue to do the following: invest heavily in research and development and continue development of integrated 3D graphics products; maintain its position as the largest manufacturer of PC microprocessors; use its intellectual property position with respect to the PC microprocessor and architecture to defend its position in 3D graphics, including the filing of patent infringement suits against competitors; follow business practices in its PC business, which strongly encourage use of Intel integrated chipsets; increasingly dominate the PC platform; and promote its product offerings through advertising campaigns designed to engender brand loyalty among PC users. Our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. Our future success will depend in large part on achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen as the 3D graphics processors for hardware components or subassemblies designed by PC OEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers. Our add in board and motherboard manufacturers and major OEM customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, generally based on spring and fall design cycles. Accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. Our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. The process of being qualified for inclusion in a PC OEMs product can be lengthy and could cause us to miss a cycle in the demand of end users for a particular product feature, which also could harm our business. Our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers, including Intel and Microsoft. This would require us to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, our ability to achieve design wins could suffer. 33 Risks Related to Financial and Market Conditions We are dependent on the PC market and the slowdown in its growth may have a negative impact on our business. During fiscal 2002, we derived most of our revenue from the sale of products for use in the desktop PC market, from professional workstations to low cost PCs. We expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop PC market in the next several years. The PC market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and significant price competition. These factors result in short product life cycles and regular reductions of average selling prices over the life of a specific product. A reduction in sales of PCs, or a reduction in the growth rate of PC sales, could reduce demand for our products. Moreover, changes in demand could be large and sudden. Since PC manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they have incorrectly forecast product transitions. In these cases, PC manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until the excess inventory has been absorbed. It is possible that the recent slowing of the economy in the U.S. and international regions, which has negatively impacted some PC manufacturers and led to some reductions in the demand for PCs, could lead to reductions in inventory purchases by PC manufacturers. Any reduction in the demand for PCs generally, or for a particular product that incorporates our 3D graphic processors, could harm our business. The acceptance of next generation products in business PC 3D graphics may not continue to develop. Our success will depend in part upon the demand for performance 3D graphics for business PC applications. The market for performance 3D graphics on business PCs has only recently begun to emerge and is dependent on the future development of, and substantial end user and OEM demand for, 3D graphics functionality. As a result, the market for business PC 3D graphics computing may not continue to develop or may not grow at a rate sufficient to support our business. The development of the market for performance 3D graphics in business PCs will in turn depend on the development and availability of a large number of business PC software applications that support or take advantage of performance 3D graphics capabilities. Currently, there are only a limited number of software applications like this, most of which are games, and a broader base of software applications may not develop in the near term or at all. Consequently, a broad market for full function performance 3D graphics on business PCs may not develop. Our business prospects will suffer if the market for business PC 3D graphics fails to develop or develops more slowly than expected. Our 3D graphics solution may not continue to be accepted by the PC market. Our success will depend in part upon continued broad adoption of our 3D graphics processors for high performance 3D graphics in PC applications. The market for 3D graphics processors has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in dynamic random memory devices pricing and other changes in the total system cost of add in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. Only a small number of products have achieved broad market acceptance and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition. Since the PC market is our core business, our business would suffer if for any reason our current or future 3D graphics processors do not continue to achieve widespread acceptance in the PC market. If we are unable to complete the timely development of or successfully and cost effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the PC market, our business would be harmed. The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and an industry downturn could harm our business. The semiconductor industry historically has been characterized by the following factors: rapid technological change; cyclical market patterns; 34 significant average selling price erosion; fluctuating inventory levels; alternating periods of overcapacity and capacity constraints; and variations in manufacturing costs and yields and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. In addition, the industry has experienced significant economic downturns at various times, characterized by diminished product demand and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. We may experience substantial period to period fluctuations in results of operations due to general semiconductor industry conditions. Our stock price may continue to experience significant short term fluctuations. The price of our common stock has fluctuated greatly. These price fluctuations have been rapid and severe. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to factors that are non company specific, such as the decline in the U.S. economy, or due to a variety of company specific factors, including quarter to quarter variations in our operating results, shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and the other factors discussed above in these risk factors. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys stock, securities class action litigation has been initiated against the issuing company. Since February 2002, multiple securities class action lawsuits and several derivative suits have been filed against us. We expect that this litigation, whether or not resolved favorably, may result in substantial cost and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which could harm our revenues and earnings. Any adverse determination in this litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. See Legal Proceedings and Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading Litigation for a description of this litigation. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. For additional information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see Item 7a Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Litigation and Government Action Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions that could result in substantial costs to us. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. The 3D graphics market in particular has been characterized recently by the aggressive pursuit of intellectual property positions, and we expect our competitors to continue to pursue aggressive intellectual property positions. In addition, from time to time we receive notices or are included in legal actions alleging that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. We expect that, as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases, and as competition in our markets intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims may increase. If infringement claims are made against us, we may seek licenses under the claimants patents or other intellectual property rights. However, licenses may not be offered at all or on terms acceptable to us, particularly by competitors. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of and sale of one or more products, which could reduce our revenues and harm our business. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. We have agreed to indemnify certain customers for claims of infringement arising out of sale of our products. 35 Litigation against us or our customers concerning infringement would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We are currently subject to patent infringement suits, and we may be subject to patent infringement suits brought by other parties in the future. We do not believe that current suits will have a material impact on our business or financial condition. However, these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could divert our resources and result in the payment of substantial damages. Our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. In addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. We have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in our graphics processors, and expect to continue to enter into license agreements for future products. These licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or payment of other consideration. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer. Future actions by the SEC or other governmental or regulatory agencies and resolution of related litigation arising out of the restatement of our financial statements or other matters could harm our business. The SEC staff informed us in January 2002 that it had concerns relating to certain accounting matters and that the SEC along with the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of California had authorized a private investigation into such matters. In accordance with the suggestion and advice of the SEC staff, we launched a review of these matters. On April 29, 2002, we announced that the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors had, with assistance from the law firm of Cooley Godward LLP and forensic auditors from the firm of KPMG LLP, concluded its review and determined that it was appropriate to restate our financial statements for fiscal 2000, 2001 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2002. The Audit Committee has worked in cooperation with the SEC and has provided the SEC with extensive information and the conclusions of the review. Further actions by the SEC or other governmental or regulatory agencies with respect to us or our personnel arising out of the restatement of our financial statements or other matters may take significant time, may be expensive and may divert managements attention from other business concerns and harm our business. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed against us following our announcement on February 14, 2002 of the internal review. The defense of, and any resolution of such lawsuits may require significant expenditures and materially impact our business and results of operations. 
 
