ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. We are one of the worlds largest fabless semiconductor companies, supplying graphics and media communications processors and related software that are integral to personal computers, professional workstations and digital entertainment platforms. We provide an architecturally compatible top to bottom family of award winning graphics processing units, or GPUs, which set the standard for performance, quality, compatibility and features for a broad range personal computing platforms. Our graphics and communications processors are used for a wide variety of applications, including games, digital content creation, personal digital image editing, business productivity and product and industrial design. Our mission is to be the most important visual computing company in the world. Recent Developments Microsoft Pricing Settlement We were engaged with Microsoft in discussions related to pricing and volumes of the Xbox chipset. These discussions and our agreement contemplated use of a third party to resolve matters and on April 23, 2002 Microsoft submitted the matter to binding arbitration. On February 6, 2003, NVIDIA and Microsoft announced that the companies had settled all issues related to pricing of the Microsoft Xbox GPU and MCP chipset and have ended the arbitration between them. In addition to resolving this pricing dispute, we have agreed to collaborate with Microsoft on future cost reductions for the Xbox. As a result of the settlement, we recognized $40.4 million in additional revenue in fiscal 2003. Strategic Alliance with IBM On March 26, 2003, we announced that we have formed a multi year strategic alliance under which IBM will manufacture our next generation GeForce GPUs. As part of the agreement, we will gain access to IBMs suite of foundry services and manufacturing technologies, including power efficient copper wiring, and a roadmap that is designed to lead to 65nm (nanometer; a billionth of a meter) in the next several years, giving us valuable tools to advance our GPUs. IBM plans to begin manufacturing the next generation GeForce graphics processor this summer at IBMs plant in East Fishkill, New York. Beyond the chip manufacturing technology, IBM also offers an automated management system that not only controls production on the factory floor, but provides a connection for customer and supplier systems and processes, allowing closer integration across the supply chain. IBMs automated management system provides us with opportunities ranging from improved operation to greater efficiency and competitive advantage, while using e business techniques to adapt to real time, on demand influences from the marketplace. Securities & Exchange Commission In April 2003, subsequent to receiving a Wells notice indicating the SEC staff intended to recommend to the SEC that an enforcement action be initiated, we reached an agreement in principle with the SEC staff that would resolve the SECs investigation of us in matters related to the restatement. The agreement is subject to final approval of the SEC. Under the terms of the agreement in principle, NVIDIA, without admitting or denying liability or wrongdoing, would agree to an administrative cease and desist order prohibiting any future violations 13 Table of Contents of certain non fraud financial reporting, books and records, and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws. We would not be required to pay any fines or penalties. The documentation of the agreement and the SECs review of the agreement may take several weeks or months to complete. Further, there can be no assurance that the agreement will be approved by the SEC. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to customer programs, revenue recognition, sales returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to them in this MD&A. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the price is fixed and determinable and collection is reasonably assured. Our policy on sales to distributors and stocking representatives is to defer recognition of revenue and related cost of revenue until the distributors and representatives resell the product. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs at the time revenue is recognized. If market conditions decline, we may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. We also record a reduction to revenue for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized based on historical return rates. For all sales, we use a binding purchase order and in certain cases we use a contractual agreement as evidence of an arrangement. We consider delivery to occur upon shipment provided title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. At the point of sale, we assess whether the arrangement fee is fixed and determinable and whether collection is reasonably assured. If we determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the fee and recognize revenue at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts and for estimated losses resulting from the financial inability of our customers to make required payments. Management determines this allowance, which consists of an amount identified for specific customer issues as well as an amount based on general estimated exposure. Our overall estimated exposure excludes amounts covered by credit insurance and letters of credit. If the financial condition of our customers or insurance carrier were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain credit insurance in the future. As of January 26, 2003, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $4.2 million and our gross trade receivable balance was $175.1 million. Of the $175.1 million, $42.4 million was covered by credit insurance and $4.2 million was covered by letters of credit. As a percentage of our gross trade receivables, our allowance for 14 Table of Contents doubtful accounts has ranged between 1% and 2%. As of January 26, 2003, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented 2% of our gross trade receivables. If our allowance for doubtful accounts would have been recorded at 1% or 3% of gross trade receivables then our balance at January 26, 2003 would have been approximately $1.8 million or $5.3 million, respectively, rather than the actual balance of $4.2 million. Inventories We write down our inventory for estimated lower of cost or market, obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. If actual market conditions are more favorable, we may have higher gross margins when products are sold. No significant sales of such products have occurred to date. Income Taxes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, (SFAS 109) establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect of income taxes. In accordance with SFAS 109, we recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We also recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax liabilities or assets for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized. For the fiscal year ended January 26, 2003, we recorded net deferred tax assets of $54.4 million that we believe will be recovered. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover any or part of the deferred tax asset of $54.4 million, our tax provision would increase in the period in which we determine that the recovery is not probable. As of January 26, 2003, we recorded a valuation allowance of $106.7. The valuation allowance is attributable to certain net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards resulting from the exercise of employee stock options. The tax benefit of these net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, when realized, will be accounted for as a credit to shareholders equity. Restatement On April 29, 2002, the Company announced that it would be restating its previously reported results for the first three quarters of fiscal 2002 and for fiscal years 2001 and 2000. This restatement was the result of an extensive review directed by the Companys independent Audit Committee, with assistance from the law firm of Cooley Godward LLP and forensic accountants from KPMG LLP. The Companys Audit Committee initiated its review at the request of, and in full cooperation with, the staff of the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC). The Companys Audit Committee and its team conducted a thorough review of the Companys records with respect to all issues raised by the SEC staff for the periods mentioned. The Companys Audit Committee worked in close cooperation with the SEC to provide it with extensive information and conclusions of the review. As discussed in the Form 8 K filed by NVIDIA on May 1, 2002, the adjustments that were reflected in our restated financial statements fell generally into four categories: The first category involved mistakes that were found as a result of the internal review process undertaken by our Audit Committee. An example of this first category is the accidental double booking of an expense. The second category involved adjustments relating to estimates made in connection with accruals, in which we concluded that there was not sufficient current evidence to support an estimate. 15 Table of Contents The third area related to past accounting judgments that, upon review, we concluded were incorrect, but we did not reach a conclusion whether they were made in good faith or bad faith. The fourth category related to waived audit adjustments for prior periods, which were items previously identified as part of the normal quarterly review and annual audit process, but for which we had concluded we were not required to make adjusting entries in order to prepare our financial statements under generally accepted accounting principles. For additional information on the restatement, refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our consolidated statements of income expressed as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended January 26, 2003 January 27, 2002 January 28, 2001 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 69.5 62.1 62.9 Cost of revenue related to stock option exchange 0.3 Gross profit 30.2 37.9 37.1 Operating expenses: Research and development 11.8 11.3 11.7 Sales, general and administrative 7.9 7.2 8.0 Stock option exchange 2.9 Amortization of goodwill 0.0 0.7 Acquisition related charges 0.0 0.7 Discontinued use of property 0.0 0.3 Total operating expenses 22.6 20.2 19.7 Operating income 7.6 17.7 17.4 Interest and other income, net 0.3 0.8 2.3 Income before income tax expense 7.9 18.5 19.7 Income tax expense 3.1 5.5 6.3 Net income 4.8 % 13.0 % 13.4 % Fiscal Years Ended January 26, 2003, January 27, 2002, and January 28, 2001 Revenue Revenue was $1.91 billion in fiscal 2003, $1.37 billion in fiscal 2002, and $735.3 million in fiscal 2001, which represented an increase of 39% from fiscal 2002 to 2003 and 86% from fiscal 2001 to 2002. The growth was primarily the result of increased sales of our graphics processors driven by significant shipments of Xbox processors in addition to the strong overall demand for our products in the workstation, mobile and platform processor product lines. Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and North America accounted for 68% and 82% of total revenue for fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. Revenue by geographical region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the foreign CEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers revenue is attributable to end customers located in the United States. The decrease in the percentage of revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States is primarily attributable to increased sales of the graphics and media communication processors used in the Microsoft Xbox product billed to Microsoft in the United States. 16 Table of Contents Although we achieved substantial growth in revenue from fiscal 2002 to 2003 and fiscal 2001 to 2002, we do not expect to sustain this rate of growth in future periods. In addition, we expect that the average selling prices of our products will decline over the lives of the products. The declines in average selling prices of 3D graphics processors in general may accelerate as the market continues to develop and competition increases. Gross Profit Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors (including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging), manufacturing support costs (including labor and overhead associated with such purchases), final test yield fallout, inventory provisions and shipping costs. Our gross margin can vary in any period depending on the mix of types of graphics processors sold. Gross margin is the ratio of gross profit to revenue. Our gross margins were 30%, 38% and 37% in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Gross margin for fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 decreased primarily due to the shift in mix of business and an inventory write down. During fiscal 2003, sales of Xbox processors, which generally have lower margins than our other products, comprised 23% of our overall revenue as compared to 9% in fiscal 2002. See Note 11 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further description of our relationship with Microsoft. In addition, during the second quarter of fiscal 2003 we wrote down inventory of approximately $21 million related to certain Xbox processors and nForce chipsets. Gross margin increased from fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2002 due to an increase in unit shipments and the favorable impact of the higher margin GeForce graphics processors, partially offset by increased sales of the lower margin Xbox graphics and media communication processors. In the future, we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take additional write downs if growth slows or if we incorrectly forecast product demand. A reduction in demand could negatively impact our gross margins. Although we achieved substantial growth in gross profit during fiscal 2003 from the same period a year ago, we do not expect to sustain this rate of growth in future periods. Operating Expenses Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist of salaries and benefits, cost of development tools and software, cost of new product prototypes and consultant costs. Research and development expenses increased by $70.1 million, or 45%, from fiscal 2002 to 2003 primarily due to a $32.9 million increase related to additional personnel, a $22.2 million increase associated with lab equipment, software licenses, maintenance fees and depreciation charges, a $4.5 million increase related to engineering costs to develop our next generation products, and a $10.5 million increase in facilities costs due to the move into a new building at our headquarters and a full year of occupation in all headquarter buildings as well as other expenses during the year. Research and development expenses increased by $68.7 million, or 80%, from fiscal 2001 to 2002 primarily due to a $31.9 million increase related to additional personnel, including certain employees hired from 3dfx in connection with our acquisition of certain of their assets as discussed below, a $14.3 million increase associated with lab equipment, software licenses, maintenance fees and depreciation charges, a $11.7 million increase related to engineering costs to develop our next generation products, and a $10.8 million increase in facilities costs due to the move into several buildings at our new headquarters and other expenses during the year. We anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development. Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenues. Sales, General and Administrative. Sales, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions and bonuses, promotional tradeshow and advertising expenses, travel and entertainment expenses and legal and accounting expenses. Sales, general and administrative expenses increased $52.5 million, or 53%, from fiscal 2002 to 2003 primarily due to a $16.4 million increase related to additional personnel and 17 Table of Contents commissions, a $16.6 million increase in legal and accounting expenses associated with various legal proceedings, a $9.0 million increase in equipment and software primarily related to the enhancement of our computer systems, a $7.9 million increase in tradeshow and product launch costs, and a $2.6 million increase in facilities costs due to the move into a new building at our headquarters and a full year of occupation in all headquarter buildings as well as other increases associated with general administrative activities and travel and entertainment expenses. Sales, general and administrative expenses increased $40.2 million, or 69%, from fiscal 2001 to 2002 primarily due to a $21.5 million increase related to additional personnel and commissions, a $6.2 million increase in tradeshow and product launch costs, and a $12.5 million increase in facilities costs due to the move into several buildings at our new headquarters and other increases associated with general administrative activities, an American Red Cross donation associated with the events of September 11, 2001, and travel and entertainment expenses. We expect sales, general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to support our operations, expand our sales and protect our business interests. Stock Option Exchange On September 26, 2002, we commenced an offer (the Offer) to our employees to exchange outstanding stock options with exercise prices equal to or greater than $27.00 per share (Eligible Options). Stock options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 20,615,000 shares were eligible for tender at the commencement of the Offer, representing approximately 39% of our outstanding stock options as of the commencement date. Only employees of NVIDIA or one of our subsidiaries as of September 26, 2002 who continued to be employees through the Offer termination date of October 24, 2002 were eligible to participate in the Offer. Employees who were on medical, maternity, workers compensation, military or other statutorily protected leave of absence, or a personal leave of absence, were also eligible to participate in the Offer. Employees who were terminated on or before the Offer termination date of October 24, 2002, were not eligible to participate in the Offer. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and members of our Board of Directors were not eligible to participate in this Offer. Eligible employees who participated in the Offer received, in exchange for the cancellation of Eligible Options, a fixed amount of consideration, represented by fully vested, non forfeitable common stock and applicable withholding taxes, equal to the number of shares underlying such Eligible Options, multiplied by $3.20, less the amount of applicable tax withholdings, divided by $10.46, the closing price of our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on October 24, 2002. We concluded that the consideration paid for the Eligible Options represented substantial consideration as required by Issue 39(f) of EITF Issue No. 00 23 Issues Relating to Accounting for Stock Compensation Under APB Opinion No. 25 and FASB Interpretation No. 44, as the $3.20 per Eligible Option was at least the fair value for each Eligible Option, as determined using the Black Scholes option pricing model. In determining the fair value of the Eligible Options using the Black Scholes option pricing model, we used the following assumptions: (i) the expected remaining life was deemed to be the remaining term of the options, which was approximately 7.8 years; (ii) a volatility of 50.0% during the expected life; (iii) a risk free interest rate of 3.71%; and (iv) no dividends. The amount of $3.20 per Eligible Option was established at the commencement of the offer period and remained unchanged throughout the offer period. Variable accounting is not required under Issue 39(a) of EITF Issue No. 00 23 for Eligible Options subject to the Offer that were not surrendered for cancellation, because: (i) the shares of our common stock offered as consideration for the surrendered options were fully vested and non forfeitable; and (ii) the number of shares to be received by an employee who accepted the Offer was based on the number of surrendered Eligible Options multiplied by $3.20, divided by the fair value of the stock at the date of exchange. We further concluded that the look back and look forward provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 44, paragraph 45 did apply to the stock options surrendered for cancellation. Based on the terms of the Offer, variable accounting is not required for any of our outstanding stock options existing at the time of the Offer. We do not intend to grant stock options to any participants in the Offer for at least six months following October 24, 2002. If any stock options are granted to 18 Table of Contents participants in the Offer within the six months following October 24, 2002, those stock options will receive variable accounting. On October 24, 2002, the offer period ended and we were obligated to exchange approximately 18,843,000 Eligible Options for total consideration of $61,832,000, consisting of $39,906,000 in fully vested, non forfeitable shares of our common stock (approximately 3,815,000 shares) and $21,926,000 in employer and employee related taxes. The number of fully vested, non forfeitable shares of our common stock to be issued was determined by dividing the total consideration due (less the amount of applicable tax withholdings) by the closing price of our common stock on October 24, 2002, of $10.46 per share. The shares of our common stock issued in exchange for Eligible Options were fully vested. However, a portion of the shares equal to 25% of the total consideration, based on the closing price of our common stock on the offer termination date, have a six month holding period, and a portion of the shares equal to 25% of such total consideration have a one year holding period. Withholding taxes and other charges were deducted from the remaining 50% of the total consideration, and the shares issued after such withholding did not have a holding restriction. Amortization of Goodwill During fiscal 2002, amortization of goodwill was associated with goodwill from the asset purchase from 3dfx. The initial allocation of the purchase price included $57.4 million of goodwill, plus approximately $3.0 million of intangible assets previously allocated to workforce in place, which was reclassified into goodwill as of the beginning of fiscal 2003. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we no longer amortize goodwill as of the beginning of fiscal 2003. We have elected to perform our annual impairment review during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We have completed our annual goodwill impairment test for fiscal 2003 and concluded that there was no impairment. Acquisition Related Charges Acquisition related charges are attributable to expenses related to the acquisition of assets from 3dfx in fiscal 2002. These charges primarily consisted of bonuses for former 3dfx employees. Discontinued Use of Property Discontinued use of property consists of write offs of $3.7 million relating to our previous office space in Santa Clara, California. Since we relocated in June 2001, we have been unable to secure a subtenant for our previous office space due to the decrease in demand for commercial rental space in Silicon Valley. The write offs consist of all remaining costs related to the preexisting lease, including rental payments, capitalized leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net decreased to $6.6 million in fiscal 2003 from $11.0 million in fiscal 2002 and $16.7 million in fiscal 2001. Interest income, which primarily consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased $4.5 million from fiscal 2002 to 2003 due to the decline in market interest rates. Interest income increased $6.4 million from fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2002 due to higher average cash balances as a result of a $200.0 million advance received from Microsoft in connection with our agreement with Microsoft and the receipt of $387.5 million from our 4% convertible subordinated note and common stock offerings, which both closed in October 2000. Interest expense, which primarily consists of interest incurred as a result of capital lease obligations and interest on our convertible debt was flat from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003. Interest expense increased in fiscal 2002 19 Table of Contents compared to fiscal 2001 due to the issuance of $300.0 million of 4% convertible subordinated notes in October 2000. Income Taxes We recognized income tax expense of $59.8 million, $75.8 million and $46.3 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively. Income taxes as a percentage of pretax income were 39.7% in fiscal 2003, 30.0% in fiscal 2002 and 32.0% in fiscal 2001. The increase in the effective tax rate from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 was primarily due to not recording any income tax expense or benefit for the third quarter of fiscal 2003 as our loss before income tax expense was primarily attributable to a stock compensation charge for which no tax benefit may be available. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 26, 2003, we had $1.03 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $237.0 million from the end of fiscal 2002. In August 2001, we began to invest in marketable securities. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed by several financial institutions. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset type and certain limits on our portfolio duration. Operating activities generated cash of $265.0 million, $160.8 million and $267.9 million during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase in cash flows from operating activities in fiscal 2003 when compared to fiscal 2002 was primarily due to the decrease in inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets and deferred tax assets offset by the decrease in accounts payable. Cash used in investing activities has consisted primarily of investments in marketable securities, the purchase of certain assets from various businesses and purchases of property and equipment, which include leasehold improvements for our facilities. Net cash used in investing activities was $277.3 million in fiscal 2003, primarily due to $217.3 million of net purchases of marketable securities. We incurred $63.1 million in capital expenditures in fiscal 2003 primarily attributable to our new headquarters facility, as well as for purchases of computer and emulation equipment to support increased research and development. We expect to spend approximately $50.0 million to $60.0 million for capital expenditures in fiscal 2004, primarily for software licenses, emulation equipment, computer and engineering workstations and future phases of our enterprise resource planning system implementation. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of businesses or assets. Financing activities provided cash of $26.3 million during fiscal 2003 compared to $99.1 million in fiscal 2002. The decrease in fiscal 2003 when compared to fiscal 2002 was due to a decrease in employee stock option exercises. Common Stock and Convertible Subordinated Debenture Offering In October 2000, we sold 2,800,000 shares of our common stock and $300.0 million of convertible subordinated debentures due October 15, 2007 in a public offering. Proceeds from the offering were approximately $387.5 million after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. Issuance costs related to the offering are being amortized to interest expense on a straight line basis over the term of the debentures. Interest on the convertible subordinated debentures accrues at the rate of 4 % per annum and is payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing April 15, 2001. The convertible subordinated debentures are redeemable at our option on or after October 20, 2003. The debentures are convertible at the option of the holder at any time prior to the close of business on the maturity date, unless previously redeemed or repurchased, into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $46.36 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. 20 Table of Contents 3dfx Asset Purchase On April 18, 2001, we completed the purchase of certain assets of 3dfx, including patents and patent applications. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, the cash consideration due at the closing was $70.0 million, less $15.0 million that was loaned to 3dfx pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated December 15, 2000. The Asset Purchase Agreement also provides, subject to the other provisions thereof, that if 3dfx certifies to our satisfaction all its debts and other liabilities have been provided for, then we are obligated to pay 3dfx two million shares of NVIDIA common stock. If 3dfx cannot make such a certification, but instead certifies to our satisfaction that its debts and liabilities can be satisfied for less than $25.0 million, then 3dfx can elect to receive a cash payment equal to the amount of such debts and liabilities and receive a reduced number of shares of our common stock, with such reduction calculated by dividing the cash payment by $25.00 per share. If 3dfx cannot certify that all of its debts and liabilities have been provided for, or can be satisfied, for less than $25.0 million, we are not obligated under the agreement to pay any additional consideration for the assets. On October 15, 2002, 3dfx filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. We believe that the bankruptcy filing by 3dfx will allow a determination of the full number and scope of 3dfxs debts and liabilities. NVIDIA may be obligated under the Asset Purchase Agreement to pay 3dfx the contingent consideration following this determination, subject to offsets for NVIDIAs claims against 3dfx arising from the Asset Purchase Agreement. On March 12, 2003, we were served with a complaint by the Trustee for 3dfx seeking, among other things, additional payment for the purchased assets and the assumption by us of 3dfxs liabilities. In addition, Carlyle Fortran Trust and CarrAmerica, former landlords of 3dfx, have filed suits against us seeking payment of the rents due by 3dfx. Contractual Cash Obligations The following summarizes our contractual cash obligations that are both on our balance sheet and off balance sheet as of January 26, 2003 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods: Contractual Cash Obligations Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years (in thousands) Convertible subordinated notes $ 300,000 $ 300,000 Interest on convertible subordinated notes(1) $ 67,687 $ 14,250 $ 28,500 $ 24,937 Capital lease obligations $ 11,316 $ 6,260 $ 5,056 Operating leases $ 219,096 $ 22,995 $ 46,180 $ 47,201 $ 102,720 Purchase obligations(2) $ 210,270 $ 210,270 Royalty and license commitments $ 2,612 $ 1,871 $ 741 Other $ 520 $ 520 Total contractual cash obligations $ 811,501 $ 255,646 $ 80,997 $ 372,138 $ 102,720 (1) Our convertible subordinated notes due 2007 possess a fixed interest rate of 4%. The amount of interest obligation assumes that the notes are held until maturity and not redeemed or converted into shares of common stock at an earlier date. The convertible subordinated notes are redeemable at our option on or after October 20, 2003. The notes are convertible at the option of the holder at any time prior to the close of business on the maturity date. As such, actual future cash obligations may be significantly lower. (2) Represents our noncancelable inventory purchase commitments as of January 26, 2003. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, 21 Table of Contents which could harm our business. Factors that could affect our cash used or generated from operations and, as a result, our need to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume production our next generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. For additional factors see Business Risks Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. Other Information Consistent with Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002, NVIDIA is responsible for disclosing the nature of the non audit services approved by our Audit Committee during a quarter to be performed by KPMG LLP, our independent auditor. Non audit services are services other than those provided by KPMG LLP in connection with an audit or a review of NVIDIAs financial statements. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003, our Audit Committee did approve new and recurring engagements performed by KPMG LLP for the following non audit services (1) income tax, transactional tax and payroll tax return preparation, (2) general tax consultation and advice, (3) international statutory audits, and (4) consultation regarding accounting standards and issues. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information regarding recent accounting pronouncements is set forth in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading New Accounting Pronouncements, which information is hereby incorporated by reference. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk We invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the U.S. Government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in U.S. dollars. We account for our investment instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 (SFAS No. 115), Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale under SFAS No. 115. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because our debt securities are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of January 26, 2003, a sensitivity analysis was performed on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. Parallel shifts in the yield curve of both +/ 50 basis points would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $3.5 million. Our convertible subordinated notes due 2007 possess a fixed interest rate of 4% and are not subject to interest rate fluctuations. 22 Table of Contents Exchange Rate Risk We consider our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in U.S. dollars, and therefore are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. Business Risks In addition to the risks discussed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our business is subject to the risks set forth below. Risks Related to Our Operations Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors our stock price could decline. Many of our revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. It is therefore difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations will be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. Factors that have affected our results of operations in the past, and could affect our results of operations in the future, include the following: demand and market acceptance for our products and or our customers products; the successful development and volume production of next generation products; new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors; our ability to introduce new products in accordance with OEM design requirements and design cycles; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers products; fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields; declines in spending by corporations and consumers related to perceptions regarding an economic downturn in the U.S. and international economies; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; the rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; the loss of a key customer or the termination of a strategic relationship; seasonal fluctuations associated with the PC market; substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, equipment failure, terrorism or other cause; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our customers products, including memory devices; our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products; legal and other costs related to defending intellectual property and other types of lawsuits; bad debt write offs; 23 Table of Contents costs associated with the repair and replacement of defective products; unexpected inventory write downs; and introductions of enabling technologies to keep pace with faster generations of processors and controllers. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. Our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and we order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. Therefore, we have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, and we may be unable to adjust spending sufficiently in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall. Substantially all of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long term agreements. As a result, we may commit resources to the production of products without having received advance purchase commitments from customers. Any inability to sell products to which we have devoted significant resources could harm our business. In addition, cancellation or deferral of product orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our profit margins and restrict our ability to fund operations. We may build memory and component inventories during periods of anticipated growth and in connection with selling workstation boards directly to major OEMs. We could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding write downs if growth slows or if we incorrectly forecast product demand. A reduction in demand could negatively impact our gross margins and financial results. We may be required to reduce prices in response to competition or to pursue new market opportunities. If new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development or sales and marketing efforts, our business could suffer. Accordingly, we believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. We need to develop new products and to manage product transitions in order to succeed. Our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to successfully develop new products for the 3D graphics market. Our add in board and motherboard manufacturers and major OEM customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles. Accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. This requires that we do the following: anticipate the features and functionality that consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionality into products that meet the exacting design requirements of PC OEMs, CEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers; price our products competitively; and introduce the products to the market within the limited window for PC OEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers. As a result, we believe that significant expenditures for research and development will continue to be required in the future. The success of new product introductions will depend on several factors, including the following: proper new product definition; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; 24 Table of Contents the ability of IBM, TSMC and any additional third party manufacturers to effectively manufacture our new products in a timely manner; the quality of any new products; differentiation of new products from those of our competitors; market acceptance of our products and our customers products; and availability of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory products. Our strategy is to utilize the most advanced semiconductor process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third party foundries. Use of advanced processes has in the past resulted in initial yield problems. New products that we introduce may not incorporate the features and functionality demanded by PC OEMs, add in board and motherboard manufacturers and consumers of 3D graphics. In addition, we may not successfully develop or introduce new products in sufficient volumes within the appropriate time to meet both the PC OEMs design cycles and market demand. We have in the past experienced delays in the development of some new products. Our failure to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new 3D graphics products would harm our business. In particular, we experienced delays in the introduction of graphics processors using our next generation technology during the second half of fiscal 2003 and any such delays in the future or failure of these or other processors to meet or exceed specifications of competitive products could materially harm our business. Our failure to identify new product opportunities or develop new products could harm our business. As our 3D graphics processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain short and average selling prices will continue to decline. In particular, we expect average selling prices and gross margins for our 3D graphics processors to decline as each product matures and as unit volume increases. As a result, we will need to introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain overall average selling prices and gross margins. In order for our 3D graphics processors to achieve high volumes, leading PC OEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers must select our 3D graphics processor for design into their products, and then successfully complete the designs of their products and sell them. We may be unable to successfully identify new product opportunities or to develop and bring to market in a timely fashion new products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that new products we develop will be selected for design into PC OEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers products, that any new designs will be successfully completed or that any new products will be sold. As the complexity of our products and the manufacturing process for products increases, there is an increasing risk that we will experience problems with the performance of products and that there will be delays in the development, introduction or volume shipment of our products. We may experience difficulties related to the production of current or future products or other factors may delay the introduction or volume sale of new products we developed. In addition, we may be unable to successfully manage the production transition risks with respect to future products. Failure to achieve any of the foregoing with respect to future products or product enhancements could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced margins and reduced demand for products or loss of market share. In addition, technologies developed by others may render our 3D graphics products non competitive or obsolete or result in our holding excess inventory, any of which would harm our business. We could suffer a loss of market share if our products contain significant defects. Products as complex as those offered by us may contain defects or failures when introduced or when new versions or enhancements to existing products are released. We have in the past discovered defects and incompatibilities with customers hardware in certain of our products and may experience delays or loss of revenue to correct any new defects in the future. Errors in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments could result in loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. Our products typically go through only one verification cycle prior to beginning volume production and distribution. As a result, our products may contain defects or flaws that are undetected prior to volume production and distribution. 25 Table of Contents If these defects or flaws exist and are not detected prior to volume production and distribution, we may be required to reimburse customers for costs to repair or replace the affected products in the field. These costs could be significant and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for existing and or new products would reduce our gross margins. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function both of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. Since low yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify process sensitivities relating to the design rules that are used. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process, and resolution of yield problems would require cooperation by and communication between us and the manufacturer. The risk of low yields is compounded by the offshore location of most of our manufacturers, increasing the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. Because of our potentially limited access to wafer fabrication capacity from our manufacturers, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. This could potentially harm customer relationships, as well as revenue and gross profit. Our wafer manufacturers may be unable to achieve or maintain acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. Our inability to achieve planned yields from our wafer manufacturers could harm our business. We also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. In the event of a significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall, our business could suffer. Failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could affect our ability to compete effectively. Our strategy is to utilize the most advanced process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third party foundries. Use of advanced processes may have greater risk of initial yield problems. Manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development. We continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. We currently use 0.15 micron process technology for the GeForce4, Quadro4, GeForce3, Quadro DCC, Xbox and nForce families of graphics processors, and we believe that the transition of our products to increasingly smaller geometries will be important to our competitive position. In November 2002, we introduced our newest flagship GPU, the GeForce FX 5800 Ultra, which is our first GPU to be manufactured in 0.13 micron process technology. Other companies in the industry have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. We have experienced and may continue to experience similar difficulties and the corresponding negative effects. Moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with our third party manufacturers to migrate to smaller geometry processes successfully. We may be unable to migrate to new manufacturing process technologies successfully or on a timely basis. We may be unable to manage our growth and, as a result, may be unable to successfully implement our strategy. Our rapid growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. As of January 26, 2003, we had 1,513 employees as compared to 1,123 employees as of January 27, 2002. We expect that the number of our employees will increase over the next 12 months. Our future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information and control systems on a timely basis, as well as our ability to maintain effective cost controls. Further, we will be required to manage multiple relationships with various customers and other third parties. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations and our management may be unable to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement our strategy. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these employees could harm our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. None of our officers or employees is bound by an employment agreement, and so our relationships with these officers and employees are at will. We do not have key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees, particularly Jen Hsun Huang, our President and Chief Executive Officer, would harm our business. Our success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Our failure to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel would harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. Our reliance on foreign third party manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging operations subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the United States, including the following: unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; longer payment cycles; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and other factors beyond our control, including terrorism and war, which may delay the shipment of our products. We also are subject to general political risks in connection with our international trade relationships. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. Currently, all of our arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in U.S. dollars, and to date we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. Hostilities involving the United States and or terrorist attacks could harm our business. The financial, political, economic and other uncertainties following the terrorist attacks upon the United States have led to a weakening of the global economy. Recent economic data, such as the United States unemployment rate and consumer confidence measures, appear to indicate that international hostilities involving the United States has further weakened the global economy. The reduction in business and investor confidence is also reflected in the weakening equity markets. Subsequent terrorist acts and or the threat of future outbreak or continued escalation of hostilities involving the United States or other countries could adversely affect the growth rate of our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure in operation or future enhancement or implementation of our enterprise resource planning system could harm our operations. During fiscal 2003, we initiated an examination of SAP A.G., our current enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system to enhance our information systems in business, finance, operations and service. During fiscal 2003, we implemented certain additional functionalities based upon the results of the ERP examination and we expect 27 Table of Contents to implement additional functionalities in fiscal 2004. If we are not able to implement additional functionalities to our current ERP system or there are delays or downtime as a result of the implementation, the efficiency of our business applications and business operations could be harmed. We are heavily dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal systems to conduct our business. System failure or malfunctioning may result in disruptions of operations and inability to process transactions. Our results of operations and financial position could be harmed if we encounter unforeseen problems with respect to system operations or future implementations. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions include the following: the ability of the board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board of directors; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to Microsoft and its licensees for use in the Xbox. In the event that an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft has first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The provision could also delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions and that could hurt our ability to grow our business and sell our products. In the past we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believed would help expand or enhance our products and services or help expand our distribution channels. For any previous or future acquisition or investment, the following risks could impair our ability to grow our business and develop new products and, ultimately, could impair our ability to sell our products: difficulty in combining the technology, operations or workforce of the acquired business; disruption of our ongoing businesses; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and possible impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new businesses and management personnel. In addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock. If the consideration is paid with our common stock, existing stockholders would be further diluted. Risks Related to Our Partners We are dependent on a small number of customers and we are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. We have only a limited number of customers and our sales are highly concentrated. We primarily sell our products to add in board and motherboard manufacturers and CEMs, which incorporate graphics products in the 28 Table of Contents boards they sell to PC OEMs and system builders. Sales to add in board and motherboard manufacturers and CEMs are primarily dependent on achieving design wins with leading PC OEMs. The number of add in board and motherboard manufacturers, CEMs and leading PC OEMs is limited. We expect that a small number of add in board and motherboard manufacturers and CEMs directly, and a small number of PC OEMs indirectly, will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, our business could be harmed by the loss of business from PC OEMs or add in board and motherboard manufacturers and CEMs. In addition, revenue from add in board and motherboard manufacturers, CEMs and PC OEMs that have directly or indirectly accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or may not reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. Our business may be harmed by instability in Asia due to the concentration of customers who are located or have substantial operations in Asia, including Taiwan. The Peoples Republic of China and Taiwan have in the past experienced strained relations. A worsening of these relationships or the development of hostilities between the two could result in disruptions in Taiwan and possibly other areas of Asia, which could harm our business. In addition, if relations between the U.S. and The Peoples Republic of China become strained, our business could be harmed. While we believe political instability in Asia has not harmed our business, because of our reliance on companies with operations in Asia, continued economic and political instability in Asia might harm it. Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could result in significant charges against income, which could harm our business. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses and to downturns in the economy and the industry. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure, excluding the amounts covered by credit insurance. If the financial condition of our customers or insurance carrier were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required which could adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attain credit insurance in the future. We may have to record additional reserves or write offs in the future, which could harm our business. We rely on third party vendors to supply us tools for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop these products. In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third party software development tools. While we currently are not dependent on any one vendor for the supply of these tools, some or all of these tools may not be readily available in the future. For example, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products in the past as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. The design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from 3D graphics products in the future may exceed the capabilities of the software development tools available to us. If the software development tools we use become unavailable or fail to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could suffer. There can be no assurance that the Xbox program will achieve long term commercial success. There can be no assurance that the Xbox program will achieve long term commercial success, given the high level of competition in the game console product line. During fiscal 2003, sales of Xbox processors comprised 23% of our overall revenue. If the Xbox program is not successful, our business may be harmed. We depend on foreign foundries and independent contractors to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. We do not manufacture the semiconductor wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. Our products require wafers manufactured with state of the art fabrication equipment and techniques. We primarily utilize TSMC to produce our semiconductor wafers and utilize independent 29 Table of Contents subcontractors to perform assembly, testing and packaging. We depend on these suppliers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields, and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis. These manufacturers may be unable to meet our near term or long term manufacturing requirements. We obtain manufacturing services on a purchase order basis and TSMC has no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantities of product. TSMC fabricates wafers for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and could choose to prioritize capacity for other users or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. Because the lead time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner could be several quarters, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. We believe that long term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with TSMC and any other manufacturers used by us to ensure adequate product supply to respond to customer demand. Our wafer requirements represent a significant portion of the total production capacity of TSMC. Although our products are designed using TSMCs process design rules, TSMC may be unable to achieve or maintain acceptable yields or deliver sufficient quantities of wafers on a timely basis and or at an acceptable cost. Additionally, TSMC may not continue to devote resources to the production of our products, or to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of our products are based. Any difficulties like these would harm our business. Because of our reliance on TSMC, our business may be harmed by political instability in Taiwan, including the worsening of the strained relations between The Peoples Republic of China and Taiwan, or if relations between the U.S. and The Peoples Republic of China are strained due to foreign relations events. Furthermore, any substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, political unrest, economic instability, acts of terrorism or war, equipment failure or other cause, could harm our business. There can be no assurance that IBM will be able to produce wafers of acceptable quality and with acceptable manufacturing yield and deliver those wafers to us and our independent assembly and testing subcontractors on a timely basis. On March 26, 2003, we announced that we have formed a multi year strategic alliance under which IBM will manufacture our next generation GeForce GPUs. As part of the agreement, we will gain access to IBMs suite of foundry services and manufacturing technologies, including power efficient copper wiring, and a roadmap that is designed to lead to 65nm (nanometer; a billionth of a meter) in the next several years, giving us valuable tools to advance our GPUs. IBM plans to begin manufacturing the next generation GeForce graphics processor this summer at IBMs plant in East Fishkill, New York. During the development of our relationship with IBM, our manufacturing yields and product performance could suffer due to difficulties associated with adapting our technology and product design to the proprietary process technology and design rules of IBM. Any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. This could potentially harm customer relationships as well as revenue and gross profit. We also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. In the event of a significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall, our business could suffer. We are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products. Our graphics processors are assembled and tested by Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd., Amkor Technology, ChipPAC Incorporated and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering. We do not have long term agreements with any of these subcontractors. As a result of our dependence on third party subcontractors for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, we do not directly control product delivery schedules or product quality. Any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products and could harm our business. Due to the amount of time 30 Table of Contents typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in the shipment of our products if we are required to find alternative third parties to assemble or test our products or components. Any delays in delivery of our products could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Competition The 3D graphics industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete. The market for 3D graphics processors for PCs in which we compete is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward forward software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, price of graphics processors and total system costs of add in boards and motherboards. We expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than our 3D graphics processors, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. We may be unable to compete successfully in the emerging PC graphics market. Our primary source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide 3D graphics solutions for the PC market. Our competitors include the following: suppliers of integrated core logic chipsets that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as Intel, Silicon Integrated Systems, ATI Technologies Inc. and VIA Technologies, Inc.; suppliers of graphics add in boards that utilize their internally developed graphics chips, such as ATI Technologies Inc., Creative Technology and Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd.; suppliers of mobile graphics processors that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI Technologies Inc., Trident Microsystems, Inc. and the joint venture of a division of SONICblue Incorporated (formerly S3 Incorporated) and VIA Technologies, Inc.; and companies that have traditionally focused on the professional market and provide high end 3D solutions for PCs and workstations, including 3Dlabs (a Creative Technology company) and ATI Technologies Inc. If and to the extent we offer products outside of the 3D graphics processor market, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. We cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. We may not successfully compete with Intel in the integrated chipset product line. It is projected by analysts that integrated chipsets are likely to become a majority share of the PC graphics market. We have recently introduced and begun shipment of the nForce2 platform processor, our second generation integrated 3D graphics chipset. The nForce platform processor is initially designed to support microprocessors produced by AMD. Intel is the dominant supplier of integrated 3D graphics chipsets. Intel has significantly greater resources than we do, and the nForce platform processor, or other 3D graphics products that we may introduce, may not compete effectively against Intels current chipset products or its future products, either in terms of price or performance. In addition, due to the widespread industry acceptance of Intels microprocessor architecture and interface architecture, including its accelerated graphics port architecture, or AGP, Intel exercises significant influence over the PC industry and over companies developing products for such architecture. Any significant modifications by Intel to the AGP, the microprocessor or core logic components or other aspects of the PC microprocessor architecture could result in incompatibility with our technology, which would harm our business. 31 Table of Contents In addition, any delay in the public release of information relating to modifications like this could harm our business. In addition to its influence over the PC architecture, Intel has asserted intellectual property rights in various PC architecture interfaces. For example, as a result of patents held by Intel, it has asserted that companies wishing to develop a chipset compatible with the Pentium 4 microprocessor or similar microprocessors obtain a license from Intel. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward forward software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, price of graphics processors and total system costs of add in boards and motherboards. In September 2001 Intel filed a patent infringement suit against VIA Technologies, Inc. with respect to a VIA Technologies, Inc. chipset for the Pentium 4. We do not have a license from Intel for such a chipset. We expect Intel to continue to do the following: invest heavily in research and development and continue development of integrated 3D graphics products; maintain its position as the largest manufacturer of PC microprocessors; use its intellectual property position with respect to the PC microprocessor and architecture to defend its position in 3D graphics, including the filing of patent infringement suits against competitors; follow business practices in its PC business, which strongly encourage use of Intel integrated chipsets; increasingly dominate the PC platform; and promote its product offerings through advertising campaigns designed to engender brand loyalty among PC users. Our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. Our future success will depend in large part on achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen as the 3D graphics processors for hardware components or subassemblies designed by PC OEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers. Our add in board and motherboard manufacturers and major OEM customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, generally based on spring and fall design cycles. Accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. Our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. The process of being qualified for inclusion in a PC OEMs product can be lengthy and could cause us to miss a cycle in the demand of end users for a particular product feature, which also could harm our business. Our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers, including Intel and Microsoft. This would require us to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, our ability to achieve design wins could suffer. Risks Related to Financial and Market Conditions We are dependent on the PC market and the slowdown in its growth has and may in the future have a negative impact on our business. During fiscal 2003, we derived most of our revenue from the sale of products for use in the desktop PC market, from professional workstations to low cost PCs. We expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop PC market in the next several years. The PC market is 32 Table of Contents characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and significant price competition. These factors result in short product life cycles and regular reductions of average selling prices over the life of a specific product. A reduction in sales of PCs, or a reduction in the growth rate of PC sales, will reduce demand for our products. Moreover, changes in demand could be large and sudden. Since PC manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they have incorrectly forecast product transitions. In these cases, PC manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until the excess inventory has been absorbed. The slowing of both the domestic and international economy has led to a reduction in the demand for PCs and to a reduction in inventory purchases by PC manufacturers, which adversely impacted our revenue during fiscal 2003. Any continued reduction in the demand for PCs generally, or for a particular product that incorporates our 3D graphic processors, could harm our business. The acceptance of next generation products in business PC 3D graphics may not continue to develop. Our success will depend in part upon the demand for performance 3D graphics for business PC applications. The market for performance 3D graphics on business PCs has only recently begun to emerge and is dependent on the future development of, and substantial end user and OEM demand for, 3D graphics functionality. As a result, the market for business PC 3D graphics computing may not continue to develop or may not grow at a rate sufficient to support our business. The development of the market for performance 3D graphics in business PCs will in turn depend on the development and availability of a large number of business PC software applications that support or take advantage of performance 3D graphics capabilities. Currently, there are only a limited number of software applications like this, most of which are games, and a broader base of software applications may not develop in the near term or at all. Consequently, a broad market for full function performance 3D graphics on business PCs may not develop. Our business prospects will suffer if the market for business PC 3D graphics fails to develop or develops more slowly than expected. Our 3D graphics solution may not continue to be accepted by the PC market. Our success will depend in part upon continued broad adoption of our 3D graphics processors for high performance 3D graphics in PC applications. The market for 3D graphics processors has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in dynamic random memory devices pricing and other changes in the total system cost of add in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. Only a small number of products have achieved broad market acceptance and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition. Since the PC market is our core business, our business would suffer if for any reason our current or future 3D graphics processors do not continue to achieve widespread acceptance in the PC market. If we are unable to complete the timely development of products, or if we were unable to successfully and cost effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the PC market, our business would be harmed. The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and an industry downturn could harm our business. The semiconductor industry historically has been characterized by the following factors: rapid technological change; cyclical market patterns; significant average selling price erosion; fluctuating inventory levels; alternating periods of overcapacity and capacity constraints; and variations in manufacturing costs and yields and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. 33 Table of Contents In addition, the industry has experienced significant economic downturns at various times, characterized by diminished product demand and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. We may experience substantial period to period fluctuations in results of operations due to general semiconductor industry conditions. Our stock price may continue to experience significant short term fluctuations. The price of our common stock has fluctuated greatly. These price fluctuations have been rapid and severe. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to factors that are non company specific, such as the decline in the U.S. economy, acts of terror against the U.S., war or due to a variety of company specific factors, including quarter to quarter variations in our operating results, shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and the other factors discussed above in these risk factors. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys stock, securities class action litigation has been initiated against the issuing company. Since February 2002, multiple securities class action lawsuits and several derivative suits have been filed against us. We expect that this litigation, whether or not resolved favorably, may result in substantial cost and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which could harm our revenues and earnings. Any adverse determination in this litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. See Legal Proceedings and Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this litigation. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. For additional information regarding risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Litigation and Government Action Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions that could result in substantial costs to us. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. The 3D graphics market in particular has been characterized recently by the aggressive pursuit of intellectual property positions, and we expect our competitors to continue to pursue aggressive intellectual property positions. In addition, from time to time we receive notices or are included in legal actions alleging that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. We expect that, as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases, and as competition in our product lines intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims may increase. If infringement claims are made against us, we may seek licenses under the claimants patents or other intellectual property rights. However, licenses may not be offered at all or on terms acceptable to us, particularly by competitors. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of and sale of one or more products, which could reduce our revenues and harm our business. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. We have agreed to indemnify certain customers for claims of infringement arising out of sale of our products. Litigation against us or our customers concerning infringement would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We are currently subject to claims of patent infringement, and we may be subject to patent infringement claims or suits brought by other parties in the future. We do not believe that current actions will have a material impact on our business or financial condition. However, these claims and any future lawsuits could divert our resources and result in the payment of substantial damages. 34 Table of Contents Our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. In addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. We have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in our graphics processors, and expect to continue to enter into license agreements for future products. These licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or payment of other consideration. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer. Future actions by the SEC or other governmental or regulatory agencies and resolution of related litigation arising out of the restatement of our financial statements or other matters could harm our business. The staff of the Enforcement Division of the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) informed us in January 2002 that it had concerns relating to certain accounting matters and that the SEC along with the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Northern District of California had authorized investigations into such matters. In accordance with the suggestion and advice of the SEC staff, we launched a review of these matters. On April 29, 2002, we announced that the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors had, with assistance from the law firm of Cooley Godward LLP and forensic auditors from the accounting firm of KPMG LLP, concluded its review and determined that it was appropriate to restate our financial statements for fiscal 2000, 2001 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2002. The Audit Committee has worked and continues to work in cooperation with the SEC. After receiving a Wells notice indicating the SEC staff intended to recommend to the SEC that an enforcement action be initiated, we reached an agreement in principle with the SEC staff in April 2003 that would resolve the SECs investigation of us in matters related to the restatement. The agreement is subject to final approval of the SEC. Under the terms of the agreement in principle, NVIDIA, without admitting or denying liability or wrongdoing, would agree to an administrative cease and desist order prohibiting any future violations of certain non fraud financial reporting, books and records, and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws. We would not be required to pay any fines or penalties. The documentation of the agreement and the SECs review of the agreement may take several weeks or months to complete. Further, there can be no assurance that the agreement will be approved by the SEC. Notwithstanding the above, actions by the SEC or other governmental or regulatory agencies with respect to us or our personnel arising out of the restatement of our financial statements or other matters may take significant time, may be expensive and may divert managements attention from other business concerns and harm our business. 
 
