ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview Our Company NVIDIA Corporation is a market leader in digital media processor technology, dedicated to creating products that enhance the interactive experience on consumer and professional computing platforms. We design, develop and market graphics processing units, or GPUs, media and communications processors, or MCPs, ultra low power media processors, or UMPs, and related software. Our products are integral to a wide variety of visual computing platforms, including enterprise personal computers, or PCs, consumer PCs, professional workstations, notebook PCs, personal digital assistants, cellular phones, game consoles and digital media centers. We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our mission is to be the most important visual computing company in the world. Recent Developments Convertible Subordinated Debenture Redemption On October 24, 2003, we redeemed our 4% convertible subordinated debentures, or the Notes, due 2007. The aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding was $300.0 million, which included $18.6 million of notes that we repurchased during the three months ended October 26, 2003. The redemption price was equal to approximately 102.7% of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the redemption date. In connection with the redemption of the Notes, we recorded a one time charge of approximately $13.1 million, which included a $7.6 million redemption premium and $5.5 million of unamortized issuance costs. SEC Investigation On September 11, 2003, we announced that the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, had concluded its investigation of us and that we have reached a final agreement with the SEC resolving an investigation undertaken by the SECs staff. Under the terms of the agreement, NVIDIA, without admitting or denying liability or wrongdoing, agreed to an administrative cease and desist order prohibiting any future violations of certain non fraud financial reporting, books and records, and internal control provisions. There is no requirement to pay any fines or penalties. Acquisition of MediaQ, Inc. On August 19, 2003, we completed the acquisition of MediaQ, Inc., or MediaQ, a leading provider of graphics and multimedia technology for wireless mobile devices, for an aggregate purchase price that consisted of cash consideration of approximately $71.3 million, including $1.3 million of direct acquisition costs. With the integration of MediaQ, w e see an opportunity to leverage NVIDIAs resources and expertise in digital media processing to offer innovative products and thereby increase our revenues by entering into the multimedia handset market. Microsoft Xbox On August 14, 2003, Microsoft announced that it had entered into an agreement with one of our competitors to develop technology for future Xbox products and services. The impact that this announcement may have on our future revenue from the sale of Xbox processors to Microsoft is uncertain, but we do not believe that it will have a significant impact upon us for at least 18 24 months. Revenue from Microsoft during fiscal 2004, fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 accounted for 15%, 23% and 9%, respectively, of our total revenue. 12 Future Objectives and Challenges Peripheral Component Interconnect Express, or PCI Express PCI Express is expected to enable a new level of performance for high bandwidth applications like graphics and networking. The transition to PCI Express, which is extremely complex, is central to our GPU and MCP objectives this year. We intend to lead this transition using a PCI Express high speed interconnect, or HSI. HSI is a complex piece of networking technology that performs high speed bi directional interconnect protocol conversion. Using HSI, we expect to transform some of our GPUs into PCI Express compatible GPUs. With our PCI Express compatible GPUs, we expect that our partners will be able to launch PCI Express compatible solutions in April 2004. During fiscal 2005, we expect to launch and be in full production with a top to bottom product line of next generation PCI Express GPUs based on our brand new NV4X architecture. Gross Margin Improvement We remain intensely focused on driving down cost and improving gross margins. With the scale of our business, we believe driving gross margins to our historical levels can result in earnings improvements. nForce3 Just as nForce2 was the driver for our platform processor business growth in fiscal 2004, nForce3 has the potential to achieve similar results for fiscal 2005. Our MCP objective is to innovate in all areas of features, performance and compatibility. During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we intend to launch our next nForce3, which is expected to be the first single chip MCP to offer gigabit Ethernet, dual independent serial Advanced Technology Attachment, or ATA, controllers, industry leading Redundant Array of Independent Disks, or RAID, features and hardware security processing. Handsets Our handheld objective is to drive the multimedia handheld era by building exciting products that leverage NVIDIAs expertise, resources, and investments in digital media processing. The first quarter of fiscal 2005 will mark the beginning of a series of introductions of exciting new ultra low power media processors for handsets. Over the next several years, digital media processing technologies are expected to play a critical role in the cell phone industry. Cell phones that take digital pictures will eclipse shipments of digital cameras. With the UMPs on our roadmap, future cell phones will be able to receive television programs, record digital video like a camcorder, enable video phone calls, and be your portable game player. .11 Micron Process On February 24, 2004, we announced that we will be one of the first semiconductor companies to manufacture select up coming GPUs at TSMCs 0.11 um (micron) process technology. We will combine TSMCs 0.11 micron process with our own engineering designs, to deliver high performance and low power consumption in a graphics processor. TSMCs 0.11 micron process technology is fundamentally a photolithographic shrink of its industry leading 0.13 micron process. Though actual results are design dependent, TSMCs 0.11 micron high performance process also includes transistor enhancements that improve speed and reduce power consumption relative to its 0.13 micron technology. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventories, long lived assets, goodwill, income taxes, stock based compensation and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. 13 We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors and the audit committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to them in this report. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the price is fixed and determinable and collection is reasonably assured. For all sales, we use a binding purchase order and in certain cases we use a contractual agreement as evidence of an arrangement. We consider delivery to occur upon shipment provided title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. At the point of sale, we assess whether the arrangement fee is fixed and determinable and whether collection is reasonably assured. If we determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the fee and recognize revenue at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. Our policy on sales to distributors and stocking representatives is to defer recognition of revenue and related cost of revenue until the distributors and representatives resell the product. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs at the time revenue is recognized. Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets. We account for rebates in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 01 9, or EITF 01 9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products) and, as such, we accrue for 100% of the potential rebates and do not apply a breakage factor. Unclaimed rebates, which hist orically have not been significant, are reversed to revenue upon expiration of the rebate. Rebates typically expire six months from the date of the original sale. Our customer programs also include marketing development funds, or MDFs, which we also account for in accordance with EITF 01 9. MDFs represent monies paid to retailers, system builders, OEMs, distributors and add in card partners that are earmarked for market segment development and expansion and typically are designed to support our partners activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. If market conditions decline, we may take actions to increase amounts offered under customer programs, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time such programs are offered. We also record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a particular fiscal period exceed historical return rates we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns. Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Management determines this allowance, which consists of an amount identified for specific customer issues as well as an amount based on general estimated exposure. Our overall estimated exposure excludes amounts covered by credit insurance and letters of credit. If the financial condition of our customers or insurance carrier were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain credit insurance in the future. Our current credit insurance agreement expires on December 31, 2004. As of January 25, 2004, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable was $2.3 million and our gross accounts receivable balance was $219.5 million. Of the $219.5 million, $39.7 million was covered by credit insurance and $3.0 million was covered by letters of credit. As a percentage of our gross accounts receivable balance, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable has ranged between 1% and 2%. As of January 25, 2004, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable represented 1% of our gross accounts receivable balance. If our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable would have been recorded at 2% of our gross accounts receivable balance, then our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable balance at January 25, 2004 would have been approximately $4.4 million, rather than the actual b alance of $2.3 million. 14 Inventories We write down our inventory for estimated lower of cost or market, obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. If actual market conditions are more favorable, we may have higher gross margins when products are sold. No significant sales of such products have occurred to date. Valuation of Long lived Assets We review long lived assets, such as property and equipment, and intangible assets subject to amortization, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. We utilize a two step approach to testing long lived assets for impairment. The first step tests for possible impairment indicators. If an impairment indicator is present, the second step measures whether the asset is recoverable based on a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Our review requires the use of judgment and estimates. No such impairment charges have occurred to date. However, future events or circumstances may result in a charge to earnings if we determine that the carrying value of a long lived asset is not recoverable. Goodwill We utilize a two step approach to testing goodwill for impairment. The first step tests for possible impairment by applying a fair value based test. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of such an impairment by applying fair value based tests to individual assets and liabilities. We elected to perform our annual goodwill impairment review during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We completed our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and concluded that there was no impairment. However, future events or circumstances may result in a charge to earnings due to the potential for a write down of goodwill in connection with such tests. Income Taxes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, or SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect of income taxes. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, we recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We also recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record a valuation all owance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized. Our calculation of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting or tax laws in the United States, or U.S., or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential U.S. and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment , we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements, accordingly. 15 As of January 25, 2004, we had a valuation allowance of $182.7 million. Of the total valuation allowance, $117.0 million is attributable to certain net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards resulting from the exercise of employee stock options. The tax benefit of these net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, if and when realization is sustained, will be accounted for as a credit to stockholders equity. Of the remaining valuation allowance at January 25, 2004, $21.4 million relates to federal and state tax attributes acquired in certain acquisitions for which realization of the related deferred tax assets was determined not more likely than not to be realized due, in part, to potential utilization limitations as a result of ownership changes; and $44.3 million relates to certain state deferred tax assets that management determined not more likely than not to be realized due, in part, to projections of future taxable income. To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets related to certain acquisitions becomes probable, recognition of these tax benefits would first reduce goodwill to zero, then reduce other non current intangible assets related to the acquisition to zero with any remaining benefit reported as a reduction to income tax expense. To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets related to certain state tax benefits becomes probable, we would recognize an income tax benefit in the period such asset is more likely than not to be realized. Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of various loss contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our consolidated statements of income expressed as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended January 25, January 26, January 27, 2004 2003 2002 Revenue 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of revenue 71.0 69.5 62.1 Cost of revenue related to stock option exchange 0.3 Gross profit 29.0 30.2 37.9 Operating expenses: Research and development 14.8 11.8 11.3 Sales, general and administrative 9.1 7.9 7.2 In process research and development 0.2 Stock option exchange 2.9 Amortization of goodwill 0.0 0.0 0.7 Acquisition related charges 0.0 0.0 0.7 Discontinued use of property 0.0 0.0 0.3 Total operating expenses 24.1 22.6 20.2 Income from operations 4.9 7.6 17.7 Interest and other income, net 0.5 0.3 0.8 Convertible debenture redemption expense (0.7) 0.0 0.0 Income before income tax expense 4.7 7.9 18.5 Income tax expense 0.6 3.1 5.5 Net income 4.1 % 4.8 % 13.0 % 16 Fiscal Years Ended January 25, 2004, January 26, 2003, and January 27, 2002 Revenue Revenue was $1.82 billion in fiscal 2004, $1.91 billion in fiscal 2003, and $1.37 billion in fiscal 2002, which represented a decrease of 5% from fiscal 2003 to 2004 and an increase of 39% from fiscal 2002 to 2003. The revenue decrease from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 was primarily the result of a significant decrease in sales of Xbox processors to Microsoft, offset by growth in our GPU, MCP and UMP products. The revenue growth from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 was primarily the result of significant sales of Xbox processors in addition to the strong overall demand for our GPU and MCP products. Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and other Americas accounted for 75%, 68% and 82% of total revenue for fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the foreign CEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location. The increase in the percentage of revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and other Americas for fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 is primarily due to decreased sales of XGPUs and MCPs used in the Microsoft Xbox product, which are billed to Microsoft in the United States. The decrease in the percentage of revenue from sal es to customers outside of the United States for fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 is primarily due to increased sales of XGPUs and MCPs used in the Microsoft Xbox product. Sales to Microsoft accounted for approximately 15% of revenues for fiscal 2004. Our other three largest customers accounted for approximately 45% of revenues for fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2003, sales to Microsoft accounted for approximately 23% of revenues. Our other three largest customers accounted for approximately 41% of revenues for fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2002, sales to Microsoft accounted for approximately 9% of revenues. Our other three largest customers accounted for approximately 44% of revenues for fiscal 2002. In future periods, our revenue may be affected by demand for and market acceptance of our products and or our customers products, our ability to successfully develop and produce our products in volume production, competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices, and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. Gross Profit Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors (including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging), manufacturing support costs (including labor and overhead associated with such purchases), final test yield fallout, inventory provisions and shipping costs. Gross margin is the ratio of gross profit to revenue. Our gross margin can vary in any period depending on the mix of types of products sold. Our gross margin was 29%, 30% and 38% in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Gross margin for fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 decreased primarily due to a shift in the mix of product sales to our new generation of GeForce FX products. Our GeForce FX products generally have experienced lower gross margins than previous GeForce products. This decrease was offset by an increase in gross margins on sales of Xbox processors in fiscal 2004 when compared to fiscal 2003, which resulted from the pricing settlement with Microsoft that we announced on February 6, 2003. Gross margin for fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 decreased primarily due to a shift in mix of product sales that included more sales of Xbox processors which, at that time, generally had lower margins than our other pro ducts. In addition, the decrease was due to an inventory write down of approximately $21.0 million related to certain Xbox processors and nForce platform processors during the second quarter of fiscal 2003, and the stock option exchange expense of $6.2 million that was charged to cost of revenue related to manufacturing personnel during the third quarter of fiscal 2003. In the future, we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take additional write downs if growth slows or if we incorrectly forecast product demand. A reduction in demand and market acceptance of our products and or our customers products could also negatively impact our gross margins. We do not expect past results to be indicative of future periods. We remain intensely focused on driving down cost and improving gross margins. We expect improvement in our gross margins and believe our gross margins can be 30% or more. Operating Expenses Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist of salaries and benefits, cost of development tools and software, cost of new product prototypes and consultant costs. Research and development expenses increased by $45.1 million, or 20%, from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 primarily due to a $33.2 million increase related to additional personnel, including approximately 60 employees that we obtained as a result of our acquisition of MediaQ, a $21.2 million increase associated with lab equipment, software licenses, maintenance fees and increased depreciation and amortization charges, and a $2.0 million increase in facility expenses, offset by a $11.3 million decrease in new product development costs and other expenses during the period. Research and development expenses increased by $70.1 million, or 45%, from fiscal 2002 to 2003 primarily due to a $32.9 million increase related to additional personnel, a $22.2 million increase associated with lab equipment, software licenses, maintenance fees and depreciation charges, a $4.5 million increase related to engineering costs to develop next generation products, and a $10.5 million increase in facilities costs due to the move into a new building at our headquarters and a full year of occupation in all headquarter buildings as well as other expenses during the year. 17 We anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development. Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenues. Sales, General and Administrative. Sales, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions and bonuses, promotional tradeshow and advertising expenses, travel and entertainment expenses and legal and accounting expenses. Sales, general and administrative expenses increased $13.8 million, or 9%, from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 primarily due to a $12.9 million increase related to additional personnel, a $9.1 million increase in tradeshow, marketing development and general administrative activities and a $3.2 million increase in computer software and equipment related to the enhancement of our computer systems and the depreciation and amortization of new equ ipment. These increases were offset by an $11.4 million decrease in legal fees related to higher legal fees incurred during fiscal 2003 for various issues that have since been resolved, including the SEC inquiry, Microsoft arbitration and shareholder lawsuits. Sales, general and administrative expenses increased $52.5 million, or 53%, from fiscal 2002 to 2003 primarily due to a $16.4 million increase related to additional personnel and commissions, a $16.6 million increase in legal and accounting expenses associated with various legal proceedings, a $9.0 million increase in equipment and software primarily related to the enhancement of our computer systems, a $7.9 million increase in tradeshow and product launch costs, and a $2.6 million increase in facilities costs due to the move into a new building at our headquarters and a full year of occupation in all headquarter buildings as well as other increases associated with general administrative activities and travel and entertainment expenses. We expect sales, general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to support our operations, expand our sales, launch our new products and protect our business interests. In process research and development. In connection with our acquisition of MediaQ in August 2003, we wrote off $3.5 million of in process research and development expense, or IPR&D, that had not yet reached technological feasibility and has no alternative future use. In accordance with SFAS No. 2, Accounting for Research and Development Costs , as clarified by FIN 4, Applic ability of SFAS No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method an interpretation of SFAS No. 2 , amounts assigned to IPR&D meeting the above stated criteria must be charged to expense as part of the allocation of the purchase price. Stock Option Exchange. On September 26, 2002, we commenced an offer, or the Offer, to our employees to exchange outstanding stock options with exercise prices equal to or greater than $27.00 per share, or Eligible Options. Stock options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 20,615,000 shares were eligible for tender at the commencement of the Offer, representing approximately 39% of our outstanding stock options as of the commencement date. Only employees of NVIDIA or one of our subsidiaries as of September 26, 2002 who continued to be employees through the Offer termination date of October 24, 2002 were eligible to participate in the Offer. Employees who were on medical, maternit y, workers compensation, military or other statutorily protected leave of absence, or a personal leave of absence, were also eligible to participate in the Offer. Employees who were terminated on or before the Offer termination date of October 24, 2002, were not eligible to participate in the Offer. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and members of our Board of Directors were not eligible to participate in this Offer. On October 24, 2002, the offer period ended and we were obligated to exchange approximately 18,843,000 Eligible Options for total consideration of $61.8 million, consisting of $39.9 million in fully vested, non forfeitable shares of our common stock (approximately 3,815,000 shares) and $21.9 million in employer and employee related taxes. The number of fully vested, non forfeitable shares of our common stock to be issued was determined by dividing the total consideration due (less the amount of applicable tax withholdings) by the closing price of our common stock on October 24, 2002, of $10.46 per share. 18 Amortization of Goodwill. During fiscal 2002, amortization of goodwill was associated with goodwill from the asset purchase from 3dfx. The initial allocation of the purchase price included $57.4 million of goodwill, plus approximately $3.0 million of intangible assets previously allocated to workforce in place, which was reclassified into goodwill as of the beginning of fiscal 2003. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , we no longer amortize goodwill as of the beginning of fiscal 2003. We have elected to perform our annual impairment review during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test for fiscal 2004 and concluded that there was no impairment. Acquisition Related Charges. Acquisition related charges are attributable to expenses related to the acquisition of assets from 3dfx in fiscal 2002. These charges primarily consisted of bonuses to former 3dfx employees. Discontinued Use of Property. Discontinued use of property consists of write offs of $3.7 million relating to our previous office space in Santa Clara, California. Since we relocated in June 2001, we have been unable to secure a subtenant for our previous office space due to the decrease in demand for commercial rental space in Silicon Valley. The write offs consist of all remaining costs related to the preexisting lease, including rental payments, capitalized leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. In December 2001, we filed a complaint against Extreme Networks Inc., the sublessor of the property, seeking payment of lease payments and other property charges for the period of July 2001 through December 2001 and seeking a declaration that we are not liable for any future payments under the lease. In July, 2003, we settled the matter with Extreme Networks and in August, 2003, the complaint was dismissed with prejudice. Interest Income and Interest Expense Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income decreased from $23.2 million to $18.6 million from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 primarily due to lower average balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in fiscal 2004 when compared to fiscal 2003. This was caused by the redemption of our $300.0 million convertible subordinated debentures in October 2003. Interest income decreased from $27.7 million to $23.2 million from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 primarily due to the decline in market interest rates. Interest expense primarily consists of interest incurred as a result of capital lease obligations and, prior to the redemption in October 2003, interest on our convertible subordinated debentures. Interest expense decreased from $16.5 million to $12.0 million from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 primarily due to the redemption of our convertible subordinated debentures. Other Income (Expense), net Other income and expense primarily consists of realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and any gains or losses related to the disposal of fixed assets. Other income increased by $3.2 million from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 primarily due to $2.5 million of realized gains on the sale of marketable securities during the third quarter of fiscal 2004 as a result of our liquidation of a significant portion of our marketable securities portfolio in order to obtain the cash required to redeem our convertible subordinated debentures in October 2003. Convertible Debenture Redemption Expense On October 24, 2003, we fully redeemed our $300.0 million of 4% convertible subordinated debentures due 2007, or the Notes. The aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding was $300.0 million, which included $18.6 million of Notes that we had purchased in the open market during the three months ended October 26, 2003. The redemption price was equal to approximately 102.7% of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the redemption date. In connection with the redemption of the Notes, we recorded a one time charge of approximately $13.1 million, which included a $7.6 million redemption premium and $5.5 million of unamortized issuance costs. 19 Income Taxes We recognized income tax expense of $12.3 million, $59.8 million and $75.8 million in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 respectively. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes, or our annual effective tax rate, was 14.1% in fiscal 2004, 39.7% in fiscal 2003 and 30.0% in fiscal 2002. Significant items impacting our annual effective tax rate in fiscal 2004 included the $3.5 million MediaQ IPR&D write off for which no tax benefit was recognized, the $75.0 million income tax benefit of certain tax contingencies as a result of settlement of our IRS exam, the $38.2 million income tax expense for the accrual of U.S. deferred income taxes on previous permanently reinvested foreign earnings and the $33.6 million income tax expense for the establishment of a valuation allowance on certain previously recognized state deferred tax assets determined not more likely than not to be realized due, in part, to projections of future sources of taxable income. Please refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the components of income tax expense. The increase in our annual effective tax rate from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2003 was primarily due to our not recording any income tax expense or benefit for the third quarter of fiscal 2003 as our loss before income tax expense for that quarter was primarily attributable to a stock compensation charge for which no tax benefit may be available. We expect our annual effective income tax rate to be 20% for fiscal 2005. Please refer to Part II, Item 7 "Critical Accounting Policies Income Taxes" for items that may affect this estimate. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 25, 2004, we had $604.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, a decrease of $424.4 million from the end of fiscal 2003. The decrease was primarily due to the $300.0 million redemption of the Notes in October 2003 and the $71.3 million acquisition of MediaQ in August 2003. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed by several financial institutions. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset type and certain limits on our portfolio duration. Operating activities generated cash of $49.7 million, $265.0 million and $160.8 million during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities in fiscal 2004 when compared to fiscal 2003 was primarily due to the increase in inventory and decrease in income taxes payable due to the settlement of certain tax contingencies. Cash used in investing activities has consisted primarily of investments in marketable securities, the purchase of certain assets from various businesses and purchases of property and equipment, which include leasehold improvements for our facilities. Investing activities provided cash of $88.0 million and used cash of $277.3 million during fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively. Net cash provided by investing activities in fiscal 2004 was primarily due to $286.9 million of net sales and maturities of marketable securities as we liquidated a significant portion of our marketable securities portfolio in order to obtain the cash required to redeem the $300.0 million Notes in October 2003. This increase in cash from sales and maturities of marketable securities was offset by $127.6 million in capital expenditures primarily attributable to purchases of new research and development emulation equipment, technology licenses and software and $71.3 million for the acquisition of MediaQ. We expect to spend approximately $80.0 million to $100.0 million for capital expenditures during fiscal 2005, primarily for software licenses, emulation equipment, computer and engineering workstations. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. Financing activities used cash of $270.3 million during fiscal 2004 compared to cash provided of $26.3 million in fiscal 2003. The increase in cash used in fiscal 2004 when compared to fiscal 2003 was primarily due to the $300.0 million redemption of the Notes, which included $18.6 million of Notes that we had purchased during the three months ended October 26, 2003. 20 Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating, acquisition and capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, which could harm our business. Factors that could affect our cash used or generated from operations and, as a result, our ne ed to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume production our next generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. For additional factors see "Business Risks Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline." Other key factors that could affect our liquidity include: Shelf Registration Statement In December 2003, we filed a Form S 3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, under their "shelf" registration process. This shelf registration was declared effective by the SEC on March 25, 2004. Under this shelf registration process, we may sell common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, stock purchase contracts and or stock purchase units in one or more offerings up to a total dollar amount of $500.0 million. Unless otherwise indicated in the applicable prospectus supplement, we intend to use the proceeds for working capital and general corporate purposes. In particular, we expect to incur significant operating expenses in connection with: continuing to develop our technology; hiring additional personnel; expanding our sales and marketing organization and activities; acquiring complementary technologies or businesses; and capital expenditures 3dfx Asset Purchase The 3dfx asset purchase closed on April 18, 2001. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, the cash consideration due at the closing was $70.0 million, less $15.0 million that was loaned to 3dfx pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated December 15, 2000. The Asset Purchase Agreement also provided, subject to the other provisions thereof, that if 3dfx properly certified that all its debts and other liabilities had been provided for, then we would have been obligated to pay 3dfx two million shares of NVIDIA common stock. If 3dfx could not make such a certification, but instead properly certified that its debts and liabilities could be satisfied for less than $25.0 million, then 3dfx could have elected to receive a cash payment equal to the amount of such debts and liabilities and a reduced n umber of shares of our common stock, with such reduction calculated by dividing the cash payment by $25.00 per share. If 3dfx could not certify that all of its debts and liabilities had been provided for, or could not be satisfied, for less than $25.0 million, we would not be obligated under the agreement to pay any additional consideration for the assets. We are currently party to litigation relating to certain aspects of the asset purchase and 3dfxs subsequent bankruptcy in October 2002. Please refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this litigation. 21 Contractual Obligations The following summarizes our contractual obligations that are both on our balance sheet and off balance sheet as of January 25, 2004 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods: Contractual Obligations Total Within 1 Year 23 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years (in thousands) Capital lease obligations, including interest $ 5,047 $ 4,179 $ 868 $ $ Operating leases 206,242 24,635 49,950 50,625 81,032 Purchase obligations (1) 213,289 213,289 Other liabilities reflected on our balance sheet under GAAP 6,520 2,020 3,000 1,500 Total contractual obligations $ 431,098 $ 244,123 $ 53,818 $ 52,125 $ 81,032 (1)Represents our noncancelable inventory purchase commitments as of January 25, 2004. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information regarding recent accounting pronouncements is set forth in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "New Accounting Pronouncements," which information is hereby incorporated by reference. 22 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk We invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the U.S. Government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in U.S. dollars. We account for our investment instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, or SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities . All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as "available for sale" under SFAS No. 115. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if inte rest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because our debt securities are classified as "available for sale", no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of January 25, 2004, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. According to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both 50 basis points would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $2.7 million. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Currently, sales and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in U.S. dollars, and therefore are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. Business Risks In addition to the risks discussed in "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our business is subject to the risks set forth below. 23 Risks Related to Our Operations Failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could affect our ability to compete effectively. Our strategy is to utilize the most advanced process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third party foundries. Use of advanced processes may have greater risk of initial yield problems and higher product cost. Manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development. We continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. We currently use 0.15 micron, 0.14 micron and 0.13 micron process technologies for our family of GPUs, MCPs and UMPs. The majority of our newest GPUs, the GeForce FX and the GeForce FX Go products are manufactured in 0.13 micron process technology. We believe that the transition of our products to increasingly smaller geometries will be important to our competitive position. On February 24, 2004, we announced that we will be one of the first semiconductor companies to manufacture select up coming GPUs at TSMCs 0.11 um (micron) process technology. We have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the past and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. Moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with our third party manufacturers to migrate to smaller geometry processes successfully. We may continue to have difficulty migrating to new manufacturing process technologies successfully or on a timely basis. Our inability to transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our operating results and harm our gross margins. Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for existing and or new products would reduce our gross margins. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function both of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. Since low yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify process sensitivities relating to the design rules that are used. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process, and resolution of yield problems would require cooperation by and communication between us and the manufacturer. Because of our potentially limited access to wafer fabrication capacity from our manufacturers, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. This could potentially harm customer relationships, as well as revenue and gross profit. Our wafer manufacturers may be unable to achieve or maintain acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. Our inability to achieve planned yields from our wafer manufacturers could harm our business. We also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. In the event of a significant number of product returns due to a defect or rec all, our business could suffer. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these employees could harm our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Marv Burkett and David Shannon are our only officers or employees bound by an employment agreement, and so our relationships with our other officers and employees are at will. We do not have "key person" life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees, particularly Jen Hsun Huang, our President and Chief Executive Officer, would harm our business. Our success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Our failure to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel would harm our business.  Our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete inventory that could adversely affect our gross margins. Inventory purchases are based upon future demand forecasts. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to write down our inventory and our gross margins could be adversely affected. 24 Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors our stock price could decline . Many of our revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. It is therefore difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. Factors that have affected our results of operations in the past, and could affect our results of operations in the future, include the following: demand and market acceptance for our products and or our customers products; the successful development and volume production of next generation products; new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors; our ability to introduce new products in accordance with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, design requirements and design cycles; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers products; fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields; declines in spending by corporations and consumers related to perceptions regarding an economic downturn in the U.S. and international economies; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; the rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; the loss of a key customer or the termination of a strategic relationship; seasonal fluctuations associated with the PC market; substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, equipment failure, terrorism or other cause; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our customers products, including memory devices; our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products; legal and other costs related to defending intellectual property and other types of lawsuits; customer receivable bad debt write offs; costs associated with the repair and replacement of defective products; unexpected inventory write downs; and introductions of enabling technologies to keep pace with faster generations of processors and controllers. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. Accordingly, we believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. 25 Our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and we order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. Therefore, we have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, and we may be unable to adjust spending sufficiently in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall. Substantially all of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long term agreements. As a result, we may commit resources to the production of products without having received advance purchase commitments from customers. Any inability to sell products to which we have devoted significant resources could harm our business. In addition, cancellation or deferral of product orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our profit margins and restrict our ability to fund operations. We may build inventories during periods of anticipated growth and in co nnection with selling workstation boards directly to major OEMs. We could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write downs if growth slows or if we incorrectly forecast product demand. A reduction in demand could negatively impact our gross margins and financial results. To stay competitive, we may have to invest more resources in research and development. If new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development or sales and marketing efforts, our business could suffer. We have substantially increased our engineering and technical resources and have 1,057 full time employees engaged in research and development as of January 25, 2004, compared to 832 employees as of January 26, 2003. During fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, research and development expenditures represented 15%, 12% and 11% as a percentage of revenue, respectively. Risks Related to Our Products PCI Express is central to our GPU as well as MCP strategies this year and the outcome of this strategy will impact our business. PCI Express is expected to enable a new level of performance for high bandwidth applications like graphics and networking. The transition to PCI Express, which is extremely complex, is central to our GPU and MCP strategies this year. We intend to lead this transition using a PCI Express high speed interconnect, or HSI. HSI is a complex piece of networking technology that performs high speed bi directional interconnect protocol conversion. Using HSI, we expect to transform some of our GPUs into PCI Express compatible GPUs. With our PCI Express compatible GPUs, we expect that our partners will be able to launch PCI Express compatible solutions in April 2004. During fiscal 2005, we expect to launch and be in full production with a top to bottom product line of next generation PCI Express GPUs based on our brand new NV4X architecture. If we fail to deliver PCI Express in a timely manner or if our PCI Express compatible products do not meet consumer and or analysts expectations, our business could suffer. We need to develop new products and to manage product transitions in order to succeed. Our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to successfully develop new products for our target segments. Our add in board and motherboard manufacturers, original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and major OEM customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles. Accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. This requires that we do the following: anticipate the features and functionality that consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of OEMs, ODMs, CEMs and add in board and motherboard manufacturers; price our products competitively; and introduce the products to the market within the limited window for OEMs, ODMs, and add in board and motherboard manufacturers. 26 As a result, we believe that significant expenditures for research and development will continue to be required in the future. The success of new product introductions will depend on several factors, including the following: proper new product definition; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; the ability of International Business Machines, or IBM, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, and any additional third party manufacturers to effectively manufacture our new products in a timely manner; the quality of any new products; differentiation of new products from those of our competitors; market acceptance of our products and our customers products; and availability of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory products. A critical component of our product development effort is our partnerships with leaders in the computer aided design, or CAD, industry. We have invested significant resources to develop relationships with industry leaders, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., IKOS Systems, Inc. and Synopsys, Inc., often assisting these companies in the product definition of their new products. We believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3D graphics market and develop products that utilize leading edge technology on a rapid basis. We believe this approach assists us in meeting the new design schedules of PC manufacturers. If these relationships are not successful, we may not be able to develop new products in a timely manner. In addition, our strategy includes utilizing the most advanced semiconductor process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third party foundries. Use of advanced processes has in the past resulted in initial yield problems. New products that we introduce may not incorporate the features and functionality demanded by OEMs, ODMs, add in board and motherboard manufacturers and consumers of personal computers and consumer electronics. In addition, we may not successfully develop or introduce new products in sufficient volumes within the appropriate time to meet both the OEMs design cycles and market demand. We have in the past experienced delays in the development of some new products. Our failure to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new digital media processors would harm our business. In particular, we experienced delays in the introduction of digital media processors using our next generation technology during the first half of fiscal 2004 and any such delays in the future or failure of these or other processors to meet or exceed specifications of competitive products could materially harm our business. Our failure to identify new product opportunities or develop new products could harm our business. As our digital media processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain short and average selling prices will continue to decline. In particular, we expect average selling prices and gross margins for our digital media processors to decline as each product matures and as unit volume increases. As a result, we will need to introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain overall average selling prices and gross margins. In order for our digital media processors to achieve high volumes, leading PC OEMs, ODMs, and add in board and motherboard manufacturers must select our digital media processor for design into their products, and then successfully complete the designs of their products and sell them. We may be unable to successfully identify new product opportunities or to develop and bring to market in a timely fashion new products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that new products we develop will be selected for design into PC OEMs, ODMs, and add in board and motherboard manufacturers products, that any new designs will be successfully completed or that any new products will be sold. As the complexity of our products and the manufacturing process for products increases, there is an increasing risk that we will experience problems with the performance of products and that there will be delays in the development, introduction or volume shipment of our products. We may experience difficulties related to the production of current or future products or other factors may delay the introduction or volume sale of new products we developed. In addition, we may be unable to successfully manage the production transition risks with respect to future products. Failure to achieve any of the foregoing with r espect to future products or product enhancements could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced margins and reduced demand for products or loss of market share. In addition, technologies developed by others may render our digital media processors non competitive or obsolete or result in our holding excess inventory, any of which would harm our business. 27 We could suffer a loss of market share if our products contain significant defects. Products as complex as those offered by us may contain defects or failures when introduced or when new versions or enhancements to existing products are released. We have in the past discovered defects and incompatibilities with customers hardware in certain of our products and may experience delays or loss of revenue to correct any new defects in the future. Errors in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments could result in loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. Our products typically go through only one verification cycle prior to beginning volume production and distribution. As a result, our products may contain defects or flaws that are undetected prior to volume production and distribution. If these defects or flaws exist and are not detected prior to volume production and distribution, we may be required to reimburse customers for costs to repair or replace the affected products in the field. These costs could be significant and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Risks Related to Our Partners We sell our products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer by the loss of these customers. We have only a limited number of customers and our sales are highly concentrated. Our sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading PC OEMs and major system builders and supporting the product design into high volume production with key CEMs, ODMs, motherboard and add in board manufacturers. These design wins in turn influence the retail and system builder channel that is serviced by CEMs, ODMs, motherboard and add in board manufacturers. Our distribution strategy is to work with a small number of leading independent CEMs, ODMs, motherboard manufacturers, add in board manufacturers and stocking representatives, each of which has relationships with a broad range of system builders and leading PC OEMs. Currently, we sell a significant majority of our digital media processors dire ctly to stocking representatives, CEMs, ODMs, motherboard and add in board manufacturers, which then sell boards with our graphics processor to leading PC OEMs, retail outlets and to a large number of system builders. As a result, our business could be harmed by the loss of business from PC OEMs, CEMs, ODMs, motherboard and add in board manufacturers. In addition, revenue from PC OEMs, CEMs, ODMs, motherboard and add in board manufacturers that have directly or indirectly accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or may not reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could result in significant charges against income, which could harm our business. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses and to downturns in the economy and the industry. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. As of the of fiscal 2004, fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 our allowance for doubtful accounts represented 0.1%, 0.2% and 0.2% of revenue for each fiscal year, respectively. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required which could adversely affect our opera ting results. We may have to record additional reserves or write offs in the future, which could harm our business. We depend on foundries and independent contractors to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. We do not manufacture the semiconductor wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. Our products require wafers manufactured with state of the art fabrication equipment and techniques. We utilize TSMC, IBM and UMC to produce our semiconductor wafers and utilize independent subcontractors to perform assembly, testing and packaging. Our wafer requirements represent a significant portion of the total production capacity at TSMC. We depend on these suppliers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields, and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis. These manufacturers may be unable to meet our near term or long term manufact uring requirements. We obtain manufacturing services on a purchase order basis. TSMC has no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantities of product. TSMC, IBM and UMC fabricate wafers for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and could choose to prioritize capacity for other users or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. Because the lead time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner could be several quarters, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. We believe that long term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with TSMC, IBM, UMC and any other manufacturers used by us to ensure adequate product supply to respond to customer demand. Any difficulties like these would harm our business. 28 There can be no assurance that IBM will be able to produce wafers of acceptable quality and with acceptable manufacturing yield and deliver those wafers to us and our independent assembly and testing subcontractors on a timely basis. . On March 26, 2003, we announced that we have formed a multi year strategic alliance under which IBM will manufacture our next generation GeForce GPUs. As part of the agreement, we will gain access to IBMs suite of foundry services and manufacturing technologies, including power efficient copper wiring, and a roadmap that is designed to lead to 65nm (nanometer; a billionth of a meter) in the next several years, giving us valuable tools to advance our GPUs. IBM began manufacturing the next generation GeForce graphics processor in July 2003 at IBMs plant in East Fishkill, New York. During the development of our relationship with IBM, our manufacturing yields and product performance could suffer due to difficulties associated with adapting our technology and product design to the proprietary process technology and design rules of IBM. Any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. This could potentially harm customer relationships as well as revenue and gross profit. We also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. In the event of a significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall, our business could suffer.  We are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products. Our digital media processors are assembled and tested by Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd., Amkor Technology, ChipPAC Incorporated and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering. We do not have long term agreements with any of these subcontractors. As a result of our dependence on third party subcontractors for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, we do not directly control product delivery schedules or product quality. Any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products and could harm our business. Due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in the shipment of our products if we are required to find alternative third parties to assemble or test our products or components. Any delays in delivery of our products could harm our business. We rely on third party vendors to supply us tools for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop these products . In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third party software development tools. While we currently are not dependent on any one vendor for the supply of these tools, some or all of these tools may not be readily available in the future. For example, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products in the past as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. The design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from digital media processors in the future may exceed the capabilities of the software development tools available to us. If the software development tools we use become unavailable or f ail to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could suffer. Microsoft announced that it had entered into an agreement with one of our competitors to develop technology for future Xbox products and services. The impact that this announcement may have on our future revenue from the sale of Xbox processors to Microsoft is uncertain. On August 14, 2003, Microsoft announced that it had entered into an agreement with one of our competitors to develop technology for future Xbox products and services. The impact that this announcement may have on our future revenue from the sale of Xbox processors to Microsoft is uncertain, but we do not anticipate that it will have a significant impact upon us for at least 18 24 months. Revenue from the sale of Xbox processors to Microsoft during fiscal 2002, fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 accounted for 9%, 23% and 15%, respectively, of our total revenue. 29 We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions and that could hurt our ability to grow our business and sell our products. In the past we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believed would help expand or enhance our products and services or help expand our distribution channels. For any previous or future acquisition or investment, the following risks could impair our ability to grow our business and develop new products and, ultimately, could impair our ability to sell our products: difficulty in combining the technology, operations or workforce of the acquired business; disruption of our ongoing businesses; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and possible impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new businesses and management personnel. In addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock. If the consideration is paid with our common stock, existing stockholders would be further diluted. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions include the following: the ability of the board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board of directors; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to Microsoft and its licensees for use in the Xbox. In the event that an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft has first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The provision could also delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA. Risks Related to Our Competition The 3D graphics, platform processor and handheld industries are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete. The market for GPUs, MCPs and UMPs for PCs and handhelds in which we compete is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward forward software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, price of digital media processors and total system costs of add in boards and motherboards. We expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products, which c ould harm our business. 30 Our primary source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide GPU and MCP solutions for the PC and handheld segments. Our competitors include the following: suppliers of MCPs that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI, Intel, Silicon Integrated Systems and VIA; suppliers of desktop standalone GPUs that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI, Creative Technology, Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd. and XGI Technology, Inc.,; suppliers of notebook standalone GPUs that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI, Silicon Motion. and the joint venture of a division of SONICblue Incorporated (formerly S3 Incorporated) and VIA; and suppliers of UMPs for handheld devices that incorporate advanced graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI and Seiko Epson. If and to the extent we offer products outside of the personal computer, consumer electronics and handheld segments, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. We cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. Our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. Our future success will depend in large part on achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by PC OEMs, ODMs, and add in board and motherboard manufacturers. Our add in board and motherboard manufacturers and major OEM and ODM customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, generally based on spring and fall design cycles. Accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. Our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. The process of being qualified for inclusion in an OEMs product ca n be lengthy and could cause us to miss a cycle in the demand of end users for a particular product feature, which also could harm our business. Our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers, including Intel and Microsoft. This would require us to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, our ability to achieve design wins could suffer. Risks Related to Market Conditions We are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. Our reliance on foreign third party manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging operations subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the United States, including the following: unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; longer payment cycles; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and other factors beyond our control, including terrorism and war, which may delay the shipment of our products. 31 We also are subject to general political risks in connection with our international trade relationships. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. Currently, all of our arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in U.S. dollars, and to date we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. Our business is cyclical in nature and an industry downturn could harm our business. Our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, including alternating periods of overcapacity and capacity constraints, variations in manufacturing costs and yields, significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development and rapid technological change. If we are unable to respond to changes in our industry, which can be unpredictable and rapid, in an efficient and timely manner, our operating results could suffer. In particular, from time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns characterized by diminished product demand and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. If we cannot take appropriate actions such as reducing our costs to sufficiently offset declines in demand, our revenues and earnings will suffer during downturns. Our products may not continue to be accepted by the PC and consumer electronics segments. Our success will depend in part upon continued broad adoption of our digital media processors for 3D graphics in PC and consumer electronics applications. The market for digital media processors has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in dynamic random memory devices pricing and other changes in the total system cost of add in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. Only a small number of products have achieved broad market acceptance and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition. Since the PC segment is our core business, our business would suff er if for any reason our current or future digital media processors do not continue to achieve widespread acceptance in the PC segment. If we are unable to complete the timely development of products or if we were unable to successfully and cost effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the PC segment, our business would be harmed. We are dependent on the PC market and the rate of its growth has and may in the future have a negative impact on our business. During fiscal 2004, we derived the majority of our revenue from the sale of products for use in the desktop and notebook PC segments, including professional workstations . We expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop and notebook PC segments in the next several years. A reduction in sales of PCs, or a reduction in the growth rate of PC sales, will reduce demand for our products. Moreover, changes in demand could be large and sudden. Since PC manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they have incorrectly forecast product transitions. In these cases, PC manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inve ntory from suppliers like us until the excess inventory has been absorbed. 32 Hostilities involving the United States and or terrorist attacks could harm our business. The financial, political, economic and other uncertainties following the terrorist attacks upon the United States led to a weakening of the global economy. Subsequent terrorist acts and or the threat of future outbreak or continued escalation of hostilities involving the United States or other countries could adversely affect the growth rate of our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Political instability in Taiwan and in The Peoples Republic of China could harm our business. Because of our reliance on TSMC and UMC, our business may be harmed by political instability in Taiwan, including the worsening of the strained relations between The Peoples Republic of China and Taiwan, or if relations between the U.S. and The Peoples Republic of China are strained due to foreign relations events. Furthermore, any substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, political unrest, economic instability, acts of terrorism or war, equipment failure or other cause, could harm our business. Our stock price may continue to experience significant short term fluctuations. The price of our common stock has fluctuated greatly. These price fluctuations have been rapid and severe. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to factors that are non company specific, such as the decline in the U.S. economy, acts of terror against the U.S., war or due to a variety of company specific factors, including quarter to quarter variations in our operating results, shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and the other factors discussed above in these risk factors. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys stock, securities class action litigation had been initiated against the issuing company. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. We invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the U.S. Government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in U.S. dollars. We account for our investment instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 115. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as "available for sale" under SFAS No. 115. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because our debt securities are classified as " available for sale", no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Litigation and Government Action Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions that could result in substantial costs to us. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. The digital media processor industry in particular has been characterized recently by the aggressive pursuit of intellectual property positions, and we expect our competitors to continue to pursue aggressive intellectual property positions. In addition, from time to time we receive notices or are included in legal actions alleging that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. We expect that, as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases, and as competition in our product lines intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims may increase. If infringement claims are made against us, we may seek licenses under the claimants patents or other intellectual property rights. However, licenses may not be offered at all or on terms acceptable to us, particularly by competitors. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of and sale of one or more products, which could reduce our revenues and harm our business. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. We have agreed to indemnify certain customers for certain claims of infringement arising out of sale of our products. 33 Our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We have numerous patents issued and pending in the United States and in foreign countries. Our patents and pending patent applications relate to technology used by us in connection with our products, including our digital media processors. We also rely on international treaties and organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. In addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. We have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in our digital media processors, and expect to continue to enter into license agreements for future products. These licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or pa yment of other consideration. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer. Litigation against us or our customers concerning infringement would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We are currently subject to claims of patent infringement, and we may be subject to patent infringement claims or suits brought by other parties in the future. These claims and any future lawsuits could divert our resources and result in the payment of substantial damages. Future actions by the IRS or SEC or other governmental or regulatory agencies could harm our business. As of January 25, 2004, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, closed our federal income tax return exam for our fiscal years ended January 28, 2001 and January 27, 2002. The results of our exam were submitted to the Joint Committee on Taxation, or the Joint Committee, for review. With our exam closed, we recorded the tax benefit of the settlement in our financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 25, 2004 because we had certainty as to the outcome of certain tax contingencies for which we had established liabilities. However, the failure of the Joint Committee to agree with our settlement may result in a material adverse impact on the results of our operations in the period in which the matter is either resolved or in which an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Please refer to Part II, Item 7 "Results of Operations Income Taxes" and Note 14 of our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. We are subject to changes in financial accounting standards, which may affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct business. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and various federal legislative proposals have proposed changes to Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, that may require us to recognize compensation expense for our employee stock options. We currently us the intrinsic value method to measure compensation expense for stock based awards to our employees. Under this method, we generally do no recognize compensation expense for an employee stock option when the exercise price of the stock option is equal to the fair market value on the date of grant. If any change to U.S. GAAP is adopted that requires us to recognize compensation expense for our employee stock options, our reported results of operations may be adversely affected. 34 
 
