ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 6. Selected Financial Data, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. Overview Our Company NVIDIA Corporation is the worldwide leader in visual computing technologies and the inventor of the graphic processing unit, or the GPU, a high performance processor which generates realistic, interactive graphics on workstations, personal computers, game consoles, and mobile devices. Our products are designed to generate realistic, interactive graphics on consumer and professional computing devices. We serve the entertainment and consumer market with our GeForce graphics products, the professional design and visualization market with our Quadro graphics products, the high performance computing market with our Tesla computing solutions products, and the handheld computing market with our Tegra computer on a chip products. We have four major product line operating segments: the GPU business, the professional solutions business, or PSB, the media and communications processor, or MCP, business, and the consumer products business, or CPB. Our GPU business is comprised primarily of our GeForce products that support desktop and notebook personal computers, or PCs, plus memory products. Our PSB is comprised of our NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high performance computing products. Our MCP business is comprised of NVIDIA nForce core logic and motherboard GPU, or mGPU products. Our CPB is comprised of our Tegra and GoForce mobile brands and products that support netbooks, personal navigation devices, or PNDs, handheld personal media players, or PMPs, personal digital assistants, or PDAs, cellular phones and other handheld devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. Original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers, add in card manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies worldwide utilize our processors as a core component of their entertainment, business and professional solutions. We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our headquarter facilities are in Santa Clara, California. Our Internet address is www.nvidia.com. The contents of our website are not a part of this Form 10 K. Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges GPU Business Our GPU business is comprised primarily of our GeForce products that support desktop and notebook PCs, plus memory products. During fiscal year 2009, we launched several new GPUs in the GeForce family, including the GeForce 9600 GT, the GeForce 9800 GX2, and the GeForce 9800 GTX. We also launched the GeForce GTX 280 and 260 GPU products, which represent the second generation of our unified architecture and, based on a variety of benchmarks and resolutions, deliver approximately 50 percent more gaming performance than our GeForce 8800 Ultra GPU. We also launched the GeForce GTX 295 and GeForce GTX 285 which were designed based on Compute Unified Device Architecture, or CUDA, technology. The GeForce GTX 295 is among the worlds fastest dual GPU solutions featuring the power of two GeForce GTX 200 GPUs on a single card. The GeForce GTX 285 is among the worlds most powerful single GPU solution and works efficiently in complex DirectX 10 environments with extreme HD resolutions. We also shipped notebook products from the GeForce 100M Series, which includes the GeForce G105M and the GeForce G110M to meet the performance demands of todays visual computing applications. The GeForce G105M is over 55 percent faster than our previous product in its segment, while the GeForce G110M is 35 percent faster than our previous mainstream GPU. In fiscal year 2009, we completed our acquisition of Ageia Technologies, Inc., or Ageia, an industry leader in gaming physics technology. We believe that the combination of the GPU and physics engine brands results in an enhanced visual experience for the gaming world. Subsequent to our acquisition of Ageia, we launched the GeForce 9800 GTX+, GeForce 9800 GT, and GeForce 9500 GT GPUs, which provide support for our PhysX physics engine and CUDA parallel processing across a wide range of price segments. 40 Our share of the standalone desktop GPU category decreased from 64% to 63% in fiscal year 2009, according to the December 2007 and December 2008 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research, respectively. Our share of the standalone notebook category decreased from 75% to 63%, according to the December 2007 and December 2008 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research, respectively, due to increased competition in the marketplace. During fiscal year 2009, our revenue from Desktop GPU products declined approximately 29% compared to fiscal year 2008. This decline was driven primarily as a result of a decline of over 20% in the number of units of Desktop GPU products that we sold, while average selling prices of our Desktop GPU products were flat to slightly lower in fiscal year 2009 when compared to fiscal year 2008. We believe that some portion of the decline in our Desktop GPU unit sales reflects a shift in consumer preference towards notebook PCs and away from desktop PCs, and that the overall global economic recessionary climate also contributed to the decline. As such, we noted that unit sales of our Notebook GPU products increased over 10% during fiscal year 2009 when compared to fiscal year 2008. However, the overall global economic recessionary climate contributed to a significant decline in the demand for total graphics during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. If consumer preferences towards notebook PCs, and away from desktop PCs, continue or escalate, we may see further declines in sales of our Desktop GPU products. In addition, if the global economic climate does not recover during fiscal year 2010, or deteriorates further, we may see consumer preferences move towards lower priced notebook PCs, which may negatively impact sales of our Notebook PC products. Professional Solutions Business Our PSB is comprised of our Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high performance computing products. During fiscal year 2009, we launched several new Quadro solutions, including the Quadro FX 3600M Professional, and the Quadro Plex D Series, a dedicated desk side Visual Computing System, or VCS, system that also can be configured (using two Quadro Plex D systems) for a 3U configuration. We also launched five new Quadro FX notebook GPUs that spanned from ultra high performance to ultra mobility, as well as the Quadro CX accelerator for Adobes Creative Suite 4, or Adobe CS4, content creation software. During fiscal year 2009, we also launched the Tesla C1060 computing processor and the Tesla S1070 computing system. Tesla is a new family of GPU computing products that delivers processing capabilities for high performance computing applications, and marks our entry into the high performance computing industry. The Tesla family also consists of the C870 GPU computing processor, the D870 Deskside Supercomputer and the S870 1U Computing Server. We believe we are in an era of GPU computing, where our Compute Unified Device Architecture, or CUDA, parallel processing architecture can accelerate compute intensive applications by significant multiples over that of a CPU alone. NVIDIA CUDA is a general purpose parallel computing architecture that leverages the parallel compute engine in our graphics processing units to solve many complex computational problems in a fraction of the time required on a CPU. In order to program using the CUDA architecture, developers can, today, use C, one of the most widely used high level programming languages, which can then be run at great performance on a CUDA enabled processor. We expect other languages to be supported in the future, including FORTRAN and C++. With CUDA, we are able to speed up general purpose compute intensive applications like we do for 3D graphics processing. Developers are able to speed up algorithms in areas ranging from nano molecular dynamics to image processing, medical image reconstruction and derivatives modeling for financial risk analysis. Many PC OEMs now offer high performance computing solutions with Tesla for use by customers around the world. Researchers use CUDA to accelerate their time to discovery, and popular off the shelf software packages are now CUDA accelerated. We have achieved a leading position in the professional graphics category by providing innovative GPU technology, software, and tools that integrate the capabilities of our GPU with a broad array of visualization products. MCP Business Our MCP business is comprised of NVIDIA nForce core logic and NVIDIA GeForce mGPU products. Our NVIDIA nForce and GeForce mGPU families of products address the core logic market. During fiscal year 2008, we announced a new technology named Hybrid SLI, which combines a powerful yet energy efficient engine with our multi GPU SLI technology. During fiscal year 2009, we shipped Hybrid SLI DirectX 10, or DX10, mGPUs the GeForce 8000 GPU series. We also extended the reach of SLI technology into the performance category with the launch of our overclockable NVIDIA nForce 790i Ultra SLI MCP for Intel processors. We also launched SLI for Intel Broomfield CPU platforms. In fiscal year 2009, we also launched the GeForce 9400M mGPU along with Apple, Inc., or Apple, for their new lineup of Mac notebooks. The GeForce 9400M integrates three complex chips the northbridge, the input output network processor, and the GeForce GPU into a single chip and, as a result, significantly improves performance over Intel integrated graphics. Apples MacBook and MacBook Air notebook computers come standard with the GeForce 9400M. Apples MacBook Pro notebook computer comes standard with the hybrid combination of two GeForce GPUs a GeForce 9400M for maximum battery life and a GeForce 9600M GT for high performance mode. We also launched the GeForce 9400 and 9300 mGPUs for Intel desktop PCs. These new mGPUs set a new price/performance standard for integrated graphics by combining the power of three different chips into one highly compact and efficient GPU. Additionally, in fiscal year 2009, we announced the NVIDIA Ion Platform, which combines the GeForce 9400 GPU with the Intel Atom CPU. The combination enables netbooks, small form factor and all in one PCs to play rich media and popular games in high definition. 41 Consumer Products Business Our CPB is comprised of our Tegra and GoForce mobile brands and products that support netbooks, PMPs, PDAs, cellular phones and other handheld devices. This business also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. During fiscal year 2009, we launched the NVIDIA Tegra APX 2500 computer on a chip. In February 2009, we announced the NVIDIA Tegra APX 2600 computer on a chip and that we have worked closely with Google Inc., or Google, and the Open Handset Alliance to utilize Android, an open mobile phone software stack, with the NVIDIA Tegra series. During fiscal year 2009, we also launched the NVIDIA Tegra 600 and 650 products, which are small, advanced, highly integrated visual computer on a chip products. These products feature enhanced multimedia functionality and deliver many times the power efficiency of competing products. We also introduced GeForce 3D Vision, a high definition 3D stereo solution for the home. 3D Vision is a combination of high tech wireless glasses, a high power infrared emitter and advanced software that transforms hundreds of PC games into full stereoscopic 3D. Restructuring Charges On September 18, 2008, we announced a workforce reduction to allow for continued investment in strategic growth areas, which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. As a result, we eliminated approximately 360 positions worldwide, or about 6.5% of our global workforce. During fiscal year 2009, expenses associated with the workforce reduction, which were comprised primarily of severance and benefits payments to these employees, totaled $8.0 million. We anticipate that the expected decrease in operating expenses from this action will be offset by continued investment in strategic growth areas. Product Defect Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including for customers costs to repair or replace the products in the field. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. In July 2008, we recorded a $196.0 million charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook systems. All of our newly manufactured products and all of our products that are currently shipping in volume have a different material set that we believe is more robust. The previous generation MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these MCP and GPU products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. While we have not been able to determine a root cause for these failures, testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors. We have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. We have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the MCP and GPU products in their notebook system designs. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted MCP and GPU products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. We continue to engage in discussions with our supply chain regarding reimbursement to us for some or all of the costs we have incurred and may incur in the future relating to the weak material set. We also continue to seek to access our insurance coverage, which provided us with $8.0 million in related reimbursement during fiscal year 2009. However, there can be no assurance that we will recover any additional reimbursement. We continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using NVIDIA products other than certain notebook configurations. However, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. There can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other MCP or GPU products. 42 In September, October and November 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this litigation. Common Stock At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 19, 2008, our stockholders approved an increase in our authorized number of shares of common stock to 2,000,000,000. The par value of our common stock remained unchanged at $0.001 per share. Dependence on PC market We derive and expect to continue to derive the majority of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop PC and notebook PC markets, including professional workstations. A reduction in sales of PCs, or a reduction in the growth rate of PC sales, may reduce demand for our products. Changes in demand for our products could be large and sudden. During fiscal year 2009, sales of our desktop GPU products decreased approximately 29% compared to fiscal year 2008. These decreases were primarily due to the Standalone Desktop and Standalone Notebook GPU market segment decline as reported in the PC Graphics December 2008 Report from Mercury Research. Since PC manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. In these cases, PC manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until their excess inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. Seasonality Our industry is largely focused on the consumer products market. Historically, we have seen stronger revenue in the second half of our fiscal year than in the first half of our fiscal year, primarily due to back to school and holiday demand. This seasonal trend did not occur in fiscal year 2009. Revenue in the second half of fiscal year 2009 declined by 33% when compared to revenue from the first half of fiscal year 2009. The current recessionary economic environment has created substantial uncertainty in our business. There can be no assurance that the historical seasonal trend will resume in the future. Subsequent Event Tender Offer On February 11, 2009, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a cash tender offer for certain employee stock options. The tender offer commenced on February 11, 2009 and expired at 12:00 midnight (Pacific Time) on March 11, 2009. The tender offer applied to outstanding stock options held by employees with an exercise price equal to or greater than $17.50 per share. None of the non employee members of our Board of Directors or our officers who file reports under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including our former Chief Financial Officer, Marvin D. Burkett, were eligible to participate in the Offer. All eligible options with exercise prices less than $28.00 per share, but not less than $17.50 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $3.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. All eligible options with exercise prices greater than $28.00 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $2.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. We use equity to promote employee retention and provide an incentive vehicle valued by employees that is also aligned to stockholder interest. However, our stock price has declined significantly over the past year, and all of our eligible options are out of the money (i.e., have exercise prices above our stock price). Therefore, we provided an incentive to employees with an opportunity to obtain cash payment for their eligible options. Also, the tender offer is expected to increase the number of shares available for issuance under our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan to the extent eligible options were tendered in this tender offer. The tender offer is also expected to reduce the potential dilution to our stockholders that is represented by outstanding stock options, which become additional outstanding shares of our common stock upon exercise. As of January 25, 2009, there were approximately 33.1 million options eligible to participate in the tender offer. If all these options were tendered and accepted in the offer, the aggregate cash purchase price for these options would be approximately $92.0 million. As a result of the tender offer, we may incur a non recurring charge of up to approximately $150.0 million if all of the unvested eligible options are tendered. This charge would be reflected in our financial results for the first fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2010 and represents stock based compensation expense, consisting of the remaining unamortized stock based compensation expense associated with the unvested portion of the eligible options tendered in the offer, stock based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the underlying options, if any, plus associated payroll taxes and professional fees. We are currently tallying information on the number of options tendered under the offer to determine the actual aggregate cash to be paid in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible options and the non recurring charge to be incurred pertaining to the unvested eligible options that have been tendered. 43 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related disclosure of contingencies. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, goodwill, stock based compensation, warranty liabilities, litigation, investigation and settlement costs and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board. The Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Revenue Recognition Product Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the price is fixed and determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. For most sales, we use a binding purchase order and in certain cases we use a contractual agreement as evidence of an arrangement. We consider delivery to occur upon shipment provided title and risk of loss have passed to the customer based on the shipping terms. At the point of sale, we assess whether the arrangement fee is fixed and determinable and whether collection is reasonably assured. If we determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the fee and recognize revenue at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of payment. Our policy on sales to certain distributors, with rights of return, is to defer recognition of revenue and related cost of revenue until the distributors resell the product. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs at the time revenue is recognized. Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to purchasers of our products. We account for rebates in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 01 9, or EITF 01 09, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products) and, as such, we accrue for 100% of the potential rebates and do not apply a breakage factor. Rebates typically expire six months from the date of the original sale, unless we reasonably believe that the customer intends to claim the rebate. Unclaimed rebates are reversed to revenue upon expiration of the rebate. Our customer programs also include marketing development funds, or MDFs. We account for MDFs as either a reduction of revenue or an operating expense in accordance with EITF 01 09. MDFs represent monies paid to retailers, system builders, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and add in card partners that are earmarked for market segment development and expansion and typically are designed to support our partners activities while also promoting our products. Depending on market conditions, we may take actions to increase amounts offered under customer programs, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time such programs are offered. We also record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a particular fiscal period exceed historical return rates we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns. License and Development Revenue For license arrangements that require significant customization of our intellectual property components, we generally recognize this license revenue using the percentage of completion method of accounting over the period that services are performed. For all license and service arrangements accounted for under the percentage of completion method, we determine progress to completion based on actual direct labor hours incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total direct labor hours required to complete the project. We periodically evaluate the actual status of each project to ensure that the estimates to complete each contract remain accurate. A provision for estimated losses on contracts is made in the period in which the loss becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. Costs incurred in advance of revenue recognized are recorded as deferred costs on uncompleted contracts. If the amount billed exceeds the amount of revenue recognized, the excess amount is recorded as deferred revenue. Revenue recognized in any period is dependent on our progress toward completion of projects in progress. Significant management judgment and discretion are used to estimate total direct labor hours. Any changes in or deviations from these estimates could have a material effect on the amount of revenue we recognize in any period. 44 Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Management determines this allowance, which consists of an amount identified for specific customer issues as well as an amount based on overall estimated exposure. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. For example, one customer accounted for approximately 18% of our accounts receivable balance at January 25, 2009, and we continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. Our overall estimated exposure excludes significant amounts that are covered by credit insurance and letters of credit. If the financial condition of our customers, the financial institutions providing letters of credit, or our credit insurance carrier were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen, such as the current period when the worldwide economy is experiencing a downturn. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and or customer, insolvencies and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our financial results. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain credit insurance in the future. Our current credit insurance agreement expires on December 31, 2009. As of January 25, 2009, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable was $1.1 million and our gross accounts receivable balance was $336.8 million. Of the $336.8 million, $94.5 million was covered by credit insurance and $5.3 million was covered by letters of credit. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required and we may have to record additional reserves or write offs on certain sales transactions in the future. Factors impacting the allowance include the level of gross receivables, the financial condition of our customers and the extent to which balances are covered by credit insurance or letters of credit. As a percentage of our gross accounts receivable balance, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable has ranged between 0.1% and 0.3% during fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of January 25, 2009, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable represented the high end of this range, at 0.3% of our gross accounts receivable balance. Inventories Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis; which approximates actual cost on an average or first in, first out basis. We write down our inventory for estimated lower of cost or market, obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand, future product purchase commitments, estimated manufacturing yield levels and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if our future product purchase commitments to our suppliers exceed our forecasted future demand for such products, additional future inventory write downs may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we recorded new inventory write downs of approximately $50.0 million, which was approximately five to ten times higher than the level of inventory reserves we recorded during the first three quarters of fiscal year 2009, reflecting a significant decline in our forecasted future demand for the related products. This increased level of inventory reserves had a negative impact on our gross margin and our results of operations. If actual market conditions are more favorable, we may have higher gross margins when products are sold, however, sales to date of such products have not had a significant impact on our gross margin. Inventory reserves once established are not reversed until the related inventory has been sold or scrapped. As of January 25, 2009, our inventory reserve was $86.9 million. As a percentage of our gross inventory balance, our inventory reserve has ranged between 7.8% and 13.9% during fiscal years 2009 and 2008. As of January 25, 2009, our inventory reserve represented the high end of this range at 13.9% of our gross inventory balance. 45 Warranty Liabilities Cost of revenue includes the estimated cost of product warranties that are calculated at the point of revenue recognition. Under limited circumstances, we may offer an extended limited warranty to customers for certain products. Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. In July 2008, we recorded a $196.0 million charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook systems. The MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these MCP and GPU products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. While we have not been able to determine a root cause for these failures, testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted MCP and GPU products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. We continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using NVIDIA products other than certain notebook configurations. However, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. There can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other MCP or GPU products. Determining the amount of the $196.0 million charge related to this issue required management to make estimates and judgments based on historical experience, test data and various other assumptions including estimated field failure rates that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these judgments formed the basis for our estimate of the total charge to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return and replacement and other associated costs. However, if actual repair, return, replacement and other associated costs and or actual field failure rates exceed our estimates, we may be required to record additional reserves, which would increase our cost of revenue and materially harm our financial results. Income Taxes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, or SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect of income taxes. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, we recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We also recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized. United States income tax has not been provided on earnings of our non U.S. subsidiaries to the extent that such earnings are considered to be permanently reinvested. Our calculation of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the United States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential United States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements, accordingly. As of January 25, 2009, we had a valuation allowance of $92.5 million. Of the total valuation allowance, $5.3 million relates to state tax attributes acquired in certain acquisitions for which realization of the related deferred tax assets was determined not likely to be realized due, in part, to potential utilization limitations as a result of stock ownership changes, and $87.2 million relates to state and foreign deferred tax assets that management determined not likely to be realized due, in part, to projections of future taxable income. To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets related to certain acquisitions becomes more likely than not, recognition of these acquired tax benefits would be reported as a reduction to income tax expense in accordance with the recent accounting pronouncement, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141(R), or SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations, issued by the FASB in December 2007. We would also recognize an income tax benefit during the period that the realization of the deferred tax assets related to state or foreign tax benefits of $87.2 million becomes more likely than not. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), or SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, our deferred tax assets do not include the excess tax benefit related to stock based compensation that are a component of our federal and state net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards in the amount of $588.7 million as of January 25, 2009. Consistent with prior years, the excess tax benefit reflected in our net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards will be accounted for as a credit to stockholders equity, if and when realized. In determining if and when excess tax benefits have been realized, we have elected to do a with and without approach with respect to such excess tax benefits. We have also elected to ignore the indirect tax effects of stock based compensation deductions for financial and accounting reporting purposes, and specifically to recognize the full effect of the research tax credit in income from continuing operations. 46 On January 29, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, or FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, issued in July 2006. FIN 48 applies to all tax positions related to income taxes subject to SFAS No. 109. Under FIN 48 we recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. The cumulative effect of adoption of FIN 48 did not result in a material adjustment to our tax liability for unrecognized income tax benefits. Our policy to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense did not change as a result of implementing the FIN 48. Please refer to Note 13 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for additional information. Goodwill Our impairment review process compares the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. We determined that our reporting units are equivalent to our operating segments or components of an operating segment for the purposes of completing our Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, or SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, impairment test. We utilize a two step approach to testing goodwill for impairment. The first step tests for possible impairment by applying a fair value based test. In computing fair value of our reporting units, we use estimates of future revenues, costs and cash flows from such units. The second step, if necessary, measures the amount of such impairment by applying fair value based tests to individual assets and liabilities. Goodwill is subject to our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair value based approach. We completed our most recent annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 and concluded that there was no impairment. This assessment is based upon a discounted cash flow analysis and analysis of our market capitalization. The estimate of cash flow is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operating performance such as revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, and determination of appropriate market comparables. Our estimates of discounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to our business model or changes in operating performance. Additionally, certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses with limited financial history and developing revenue models, which increase the risk of differences between the projected and actual performance. Significant differences between these estimates and actual cash flows could materially affect our future financial results. These factors increase the risk of differences between projected and actual performance that could impact future estimates of fair value of all reporting units. In addition, determining the number of reporting units and the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We also make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. The long term financial forecast represents the best estimate that we have at this time and we believe that its underlying assumptions are reasonable. However, actual performance in the near term and longer term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates of fair value of our reporting units and may result in a charge to earnings in future periods due to the potential for a write down of goodwill in connection with such tests. Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Fair Value In the current market environment, the assessment of the fair value of debt instruments can be difficult and subjective. The volume of trading activity of certain debt instruments has declined, and the rapid changes occurring in todays financial markets can lead to changes in the fair value of financial instruments in relatively short periods of time. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, or SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value. Please refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K. We measure our cash equivalents and marketable securities at fair value. The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. Level 1 valuations are obtained from real time quotes for transactions in active exchange markets involving identical assets. Level 2 valuations are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets involving similar assets. Level 3 valuations are based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and include our own data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances. Each level of input has different levels of subjectivity and difficulty involved in determining fair value. While most of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are valued based on Level 2 inputs, the valuation of our holdings of the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund are classified as a Level 3 input due to the inherent subjectivity and the significant judgment involved in its valuation. Total financial assets at fair value classified within Level 3 were 3.7% of total assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 25, 2009. 47 Other Than Temporary Impairment We account for our investment instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, or SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. All of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale under SFAS No. 115. All of our available for sale investments are subject to a periodic impairment review. Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary when the resulting fair value is significantly below cost basis and or the significant decline has lasted for an extended period of time. The evaluation that we use to determine whether a marketable security is impaired is based on the specific facts and circumstances present at the time of assessment, which include the consideration of general market conditions, the duration and extent to which fair value is below cost, and our intent and ability to hold an investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in value. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for an investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and changes in an investees credit rating. Investments that we identify as having an indicator of impairment are subject to further analysis to determine if the investment is other than temporarily impaired, in which case we write down the investment to its estimated fair value. During fiscal year 2009, we recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $9.9 million. These charges include $5.6 million related to what we believe is an other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the International Reserve Fund; $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that have filed for bankruptcy as of January 25, 2009. Stock based Compensation Effective January 30, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), which establishes accounting for stock based awards exchanged for employee services. Accordingly, stock based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the awards, and is recognized as expense over the requisite employee service period. Stock based compensation expense recognized during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $162.7 million, $133.4 million and $116.7 million, respectively, which consisted of stock based compensation expense related to stock options and our employee stock purchase plan. Please refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information. We elected to adopt the modified prospective application method as provided by SFAS No. 123(R), beginning January 30, 2006. We recognize stock based compensation expense using the straight line attribution method. We estimate the value of employee stock options on the date of grant using a binomial model. The determination of fair value of share based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, vesting schedules, death and disability probabilities, expected volatility and risk free interest. Our management determined that the use of implied volatility is expected to be more reflective of market conditions and, therefore, could reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of our expected volatility than historical volatility. The risk free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of our employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts. We began segregating options into groups for employees with relatively homogeneous exercise behavior in order to calculate the best estimate of fair value using the binomial valuation model. Using the binomial model, the fair value of the stock options granted under our stock option plans have been estimated using the following assumptions during the year ended January 25, 2009: Weighted average expected life of stock options (in years) 3.6 5.8 Risk free interest rate 1.7% 3.7 % Volatility 52% 105 % Dividend yield For our employee stock purchase plan we continue to use the Black Scholes model. The fair value of the shares issued under the employee stock purchase plan has been estimated using the following assumptions during year ended January 25, 2009: Weighted average expected life of stock options (in years) 0.5 2.0 Risk free interest rate 1.6% 2.4 % Volatility 62% 68 % Dividend yield SFAS No. 123(R) also requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on historical experience. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of SFAS No. 123(R) in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under SFAS No. 123(R) may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. 48 Litigation, Investigation and Settlement Costs From time to time, we are involved in legal actions and or investigations by regulatory bodies. We are aggressively defending our current litigation matters for which we are responsible. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation or investigations, and we cannot be certain that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation, fines and or substantial settlement payments. If that occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If information becomes available that causes us to determine that a loss in any of our pending litigation, investigations or settlements is probable, and we can reasonably estimate the loss associated with such events, we will record the loss in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. However, the actual liability in any such litigation or investigations may be materially different from our estimates, which could require us to record additional costs. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended January 25, 2009 January 27, 2008 January 28, 2007 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 65.7 54.4 57.6 Gross profit 34.3 45.6 42.4 Operating expenses: Research and development 25.0 16.9 18.0 Sales, general and administrative 10.6 8.3 9.6 Restructuring charges and other 0.8 Total operating expenses 36.4 25.2 27.6 Income (loss) from operations (2.1 ) 20.4 14.8 Interest and other income, net 0.8 1.6 1.3 Income (loss) before income taxes (1.3 ) 22.0 16.1 Income tax expense (benefit) (0.4 ) 2.5 1.5 Net income (loss) (0.9 )% 19.5 % 14.6 % Fiscal Years Ended January 25, 2009, January 27, 2008 and January 28, 2007 Revenue We report financial information for four major product line operating segments to our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, as follows: the GPU business, PSB, MCP business, and CPB. Revenue in the "All Other" category is primarily derived from sales of components. Please refer to Note 16 of our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information. Fiscal Year 2009 vs. Fiscal Year 2008 Revenue was $3.42 billion for fiscal year 2009, compared to $4.10 billion for fiscal year 2008, which represents a decrease of 16%. For the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we expect revenue to remain flat or improve slightly when compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business. GPU business revenue decreased by 24% to $1.91 billion for fiscal year 2009, compared to $2.52 billion for fiscal year 2008. This decrease resulted from decreased sales of our desktop GPU and memory products, offset by increased sales of our notebook GPU products. Sales of our desktop GPU and memory products decreased approximately 29% and 59%, respectively, in fiscal year 2009 when compared to fiscal year 2008. These decreases were primarily due to a decline in the Standalone Desktop market segment as reported in the December 2008 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research, driven by a combination of market migration from desktop PCs towards notebook PCs and an overall market shift in the mix of products towards lower priced products. This overall market decline translated into a decline of over 20% in the number of units of desktop GPU products that we sold in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. The decline in desktop GPU revenue also reflects the impact of a slight average sales price regression in our products and a decline in our share position during the middle portion of fiscal year 2009 as a result of increased competition. Memory sales declined as a result of a decline in sales of our high end desktop GPU products. Sales of our notebook GPU products increased approximately 3% in fiscal year 2009 when compared to fiscal year 2008, due to higher unit sales aided by a market move toward notebook PCs over desktop PCs, offset by a slight decline in average selling prices. Additionally, the overall global economic recessionary climate contributed to a significant decline in the demand for total graphics during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. 49 PSB. PSB revenue increased by 18% to $693.4 million for fiscal year 2009, compared to $588.4 million for fiscal year 2008. Our NVIDIA professional workstation product sales increased due to an overall unit increase of approximately 15% in shipments of boards and chips as compared to fiscal year 2008, due to strong demand and our transition from previous generations of NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products to GeForce 8 based and GeForce 9 based products. Sales of NVIDIA Quadro CX for Adobes CS4 software, which we launched in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, also contributed towards the increase in sales in fiscal year 2009. MCP Business. MCP business revenue decreased by 8% to $655.6 million for fiscal year 2009, compared to $710.4 million for fiscal year 2008. This decrease was due to a decline of approximately 32% in sales of our AMD based platform products resulting from increased competition in AMD based products, offset by an increase of approximately 120% in sales of our Intel based platform products. The increase in Intel based product sales was driven by sales of our GeForce 9400M mGPU, which we launched in October 2008 along with Apple Inc., or Apple, for their new lineup of Mac notebooks, and our new GeForce 9400 and 9300 mGPUs for Intel desktop PCs. CPB. CPB revenue decreased by 46% to $136.3 million for fiscal year 2009, compared to $251.1 million for fiscal year 2008. The decline in CPB revenue is primarily driven by a combination of a decrease in revenue from our cell phone products and a decrease in revenue from Sony Computer Entertainment, or SCE. The decrease in revenue from our cell phone products resulted from our shift from marketing and developing legacy products to achieving design wins and marketing our newer Tegra products. The decrease in our revenue from SCE resulted from a decline in license revenue and a decline in royalty revenue that was caused by a lower number of units shipped as well as by a step down in the per unit royalty rate during the year due to achievement of a unit based milestone in our agreement with SCE. Fiscal Year 2008 vs. Fiscal Year 2007 Revenue was $4.10 billion for fiscal year 2008, compared to $3.07 billion for fiscal year 2007, which represents an increase of 34%. A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business. GPU business revenue increased by 47% to $2.52 billion in fiscal year 2008, compared to $1.71 billion in fiscal year 2007. This improvement was primarily due to increased sales of our desktop GPU products and notebook GPU products. Sales of our desktop GPU products increased by approximately 38% compared to fiscal year 2007, primarily due to growth of the Standalone Desktop market as reported in the December 2007 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research. Our leadership position in the Standalone Desktop market was driven by our GeForce 8 based products. Sales of our notebook GPU products increased by approximately 114% compared to fiscal year 2007. Notebook GPU revenue growth was primarily due to share gains in the Standalone Notebook category as reported in the December 2007 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research. Our share gains in the Standalone Notebook category were primarily a result of shipments of products used in notebook PC design wins related to Intels Santa Rosa platform used in notebooks. PSB. PSB revenue increased by 29% to $588.4 million in fiscal year 2008, compared to $454.7 million in fiscal year 2007. Our professional workstation product sales increased due to an overall increase in shipments of boards and chips. This increase in shipments was primarily driven by our transition from previous generations of NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products to GeForce 8 based products. MCP Business. MCP business revenue increased by 7% to $710.4 million in fiscal year 2008, compared to $661.5 million in fiscal year 2007. The increase resulted from an approximate 225% increase in sales of our Intel based platform products as compared to fiscal year 2007. We began ramping up shipments of our Intel based platform products after the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. This increase was offset by a decline in sales of our AMD based platform products and sales of products related to our acquisition of ULi Electronics, Inc. in February 2006. CPB. CPB revenue increased by 8% to $251.1 million in fiscal year 2008, compared to $233.2 million in fiscal year 2007. The overall increase in CPB revenue is primarily due to increased royalties from Sony Computer Entertainment, or SCE, but was offset by decreases in revenue from our cell phone products and our contractual development arrangements with SCE. Concentration of Revenue We generated 87%, 89% and 86% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from sales to customers outside the United States and other Americas. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the foreign contract equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, add in board and motherboard manufacturers revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location. 50 Revenue from significant customers, those representing approximately 10% or more of total revenue for the respective periods, is summarized as follows: Year Ended January 25, 2009 January 27, 2008 January 28, 2007 Revenue: Customer A 11 % 7 % 4 % Customer B 8 % 10 % 12 % Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions, and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also includes development costs for license and service arrangements. Gross margin is the percentage of gross profit to revenue. Our gross margin was 34.3%, 45.6% and 42.4% for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our gross margin is significantly impacted by the mix of products we sell. Product mix is often difficult to estimate with accuracy. Therefore, if we experience product transition or competitive challenges, if we achieve significant revenue growth in our lower margin product lines, or if we are unable to earn as much revenue as we expect from higher margin product lines, our gross margin may be negatively impacted. We will continue to focus on improving our gross margin by delivering cost effective product architectures, enhancing business processes and delivering profitable growth. A discussion of our gross margin results for each of our operating segments is as follows: Fiscal Year 2009 vs. Fiscal Year 2008 Our gross margin declined to 34.3% in fiscal year 2009 from 45.6% for fiscal year 2008. The gross margin for fiscal year 2009 includes the impact of a $196.0 million charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook systems offset by allocated insurance claim proceeds of $6.7 million from an insurance provider. This warranty charge had an adverse impact of approximately 6.0% on our gross margin for fiscal year 2009. Additionally, inventory reserves taken during fiscal year 2009 were approximately $50.0 million higher compared to fiscal year 2008, reflecting a significant decline in our forecasted future demand for the related products and having a negative impact on our gross margin. GPU Business. The gross margin of our GPU business decreased during fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008. This decrease was due to a charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation GPU products used in notebook systems, the negative impact of inventory reserves taken during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, and average sales price regression in our GeForce 9 based and previous generations of desktop products resulting from increased competition. The average sales price regression was also driven by a combination of market migration from desktop PCs towards notebook PCs and an overall market shift in the mix of products towards lower priced products. PSB. The gross margin of our PSB increased slightly during fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008. This increase was primarily due to increased sales of our GeForce 9 based NVIDIA Quadro products, which began selling in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, and GeForce 8 based NVIDIA Quadro products, which generally have higher gross margins than our previous generations of NVIDIA Quadro products. MCP Business. The gross margin of our MCP business decreased during fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008, due to decline in the margins of our AMD and Intel based products. During fiscal year 2009, gross margins declined primarily due to a charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP products used in notebook systems. CPB. The gross margin of our CPB increased during fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008. This increase was primarily due to changes in the product mix in our CPB product lines. We experienced greater revenue decline in our lower margin cell phone and other handheld devices product lines as compared to higher margin SCE transactions in the current year. 51 Fiscal Year 2008 vs. Fiscal Year 2007 GPU Business. The gross margin of our GPU business increased during fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007. This increase was primarily due to increased sales of our GeForce 8 series GPUs, which began selling in the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. Our GeForce 8 series GPUs generally have higher gross margins than our previous generations of GPUs. Additionally, the more favorable costs of memory purchases during fiscal year 2008, positively impacted our gross margin. PSB. The gross margin of our PSB increased during fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007. This increase was primarily due to increased sales of our GeForce 8 based NVIDIA Quadro products, which began selling in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and generally have higher gross margins than our previous generations of NVIDIA Quadro products. MCP Business. The gross margin of our MCP business increased during fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007. This increase was primarily due to a shift in product mix towards Intel based platform products, which began to ramp up shipments after the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, and inventory reserves that we recorded as a charge to cost of revenue during the first quarter of fiscal year 2007 of approximately $4.1 million related to certain NVIDIA nForce purchase commitments that we believed had exceeded future demand. CPB. The gross margin of our CPB decreased during fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007. This decrease was primarily due to a drop in gross profit realized from sales of our high end feature cellular phone and other handheld devices. However, increased royalties from SCE during fiscal year 2008, offset the decreases. Operating Expenses Year Ended Year Ended January 25, 2009 January 27, 2008 $ Change % Change January 27, 2008 January 28, 2007 $ Change % Change (In millions) (In millions) Research and development expenses $ 855.9 $ 691.6 $ 164.3 24 % $ 691.6 $ 553.5 $ 138.1 25 % Sales, general and administrative expenses 362.2 341.3 20.9 6 % 341.3 293.5 47.8 16 % Restructuring charges and other 26.9 26.9 100 % Total operating expenses $ 1,245.0 $ 1,032.9 $ 212.1 21 % $ 1,032.9 $ 847.0 $ 185.9 22 % Research and development as a percentage of net revenue 25 % 17 % 17 % 18 % Sales, general and administrative as a percentage of net revenue 11 % 8 % 8 % 10 % Research and Development Fiscal Year 2009 vs. Fiscal Year 2008 Research and development expenses were $855.9 million and $691.6 million during fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively, an increase of $164.3 million, or 24%. The increase was primarily due to increase in salaries and benefits by approximately $64.9 million primarily as a result of the net addition of approximately 500 personnel in departments related to research and development functions, offset by lower expenses during fiscal year 2009 related to our variable compensation programs when compared to fiscal year 2008. Stock based compensation expense increased by $21.4 million primarily because of the impact of new hire and semi annual stock awards granted subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, offset by a reduction in expense related to older stock awards that were almost fully vested and for which the related expense had been almost fully amortized by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. Development expenses increased by $18.8 million primarily due to increase in expenses related to engineering services, prototype materials and internal board requests. Other increases in research and development expenses are primarily related to costs that were driven by personnel growth, including depreciation and amortization, facilities, and computer software and equipment. Fiscal Year 2008 vs. Fiscal Year 2007 Research and development expenses were $691.6 million and $553.5 million during fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, an increase of $138.1 million, or 25%. The increase is primarily related to an increase in salaries and benefits by approximately $95.3 million as a result of personnel growth in departments related to research and development functions by approximately 600 additional personnel in fiscal year 2008. Additionally, salaries and benefits expenses also increased due to the increase in our variable compensation expense as a result of our financial performance for fiscal year 2008. Facilities expenses and expenses related to computer software and equipment also increased as a result of the personnel growth. In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development. Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue. 52 Sales, General and Administrative Fiscal Year 2009 vs. Fiscal Year 2008 Sales, general and administrative expenses were $362.2 million and $341.3 million during fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively, an increase of $20.9 million, or 6%. Outside professional fees increased by $17.5 million primarily due to increased legal fees pertaining to ongoing litigation matters described in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K. Marketing and advertising expenses increased by $22.3 million, primarily due to increased advertising campaign related activities and trade shows in the current year. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $15.4 million primarily due to amortization of intangible assets acquired from our acquisitions of Mental Images and Ageia, and from increased capital expenditures. Stock based compensation expense increased by $6.9 million primarily due to the impact of new hire and semi annual stock awards granted subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, offset by a reduction in expense related to older stock awards that were almost fully vested and for which the related expense had been almost fully amortized by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. Headcount related to personnel in departments related to sales, general and administrative functions remained relatively flat year over year, but labor and related expenses decreased by $13.9 million due to lower expenses during fiscal year 2009 related to our variable compensation programs when compared to fiscal year 2008. Fiscal Year 2008 vs. Fiscal Year 2007 Sales, general and administrative expenses were $341.3 million and $293.5 million during fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, an increase of $47.8 million, or 16%. The increase is primarily due to an increase in salaries and benefits by approximately $31.4 million related to the growth in personnel by approximately 180 additional personnel. Additionally, salaries and benefits expenses also increased due to the increase in our variable compensation expense as a result of our financial performance for fiscal year 2008. Advertising and promotion expenses increased by $4.2 million primarily due to costs incurred for sponsorships and increased advertising campaign costs. The increase in personnel during the year and the expansion of our facilities worldwide to support additional personnel resulted in increases in our facilities expenses, stock based compensation expense and depreciation and amortization expenses. In response to the current economic environment, we have commenced several cost reduction measures which are designed to reduce our operating expenses and will continue to focus on reducing our operating expenses during fiscal year 2010. Please refer to the discussion in Note 19 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for the potential impact of the tender offer on operating expenses during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. In process research and development In connection with our acquisition of Mental Images in November 2007 and PortalPlayer in January 2007, we wrote off $4.0 million and $13.4 million during fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, of in process research and development, or IPR&D, that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. In accordance with SFAS No. 2, Accounting for Research and Development Costs, as clarified by FIN 4, Applicability of SFAS No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method an interpretation of SFAS No. 2, amounts assigned to IPR&D meeting the above stated criteria must be charged to expense as part of the allocation of the purchase price. Restructuring Charges and Other On September 18, 2008, we announced a workforce reduction to allow for continued investment in strategic growth areas, which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. As a result, we eliminated approximately 360 positions worldwide, or about 6.5% of our global workforce. During fiscal year 2009, expenses associated with the workforce reduction, which were comprised primarily of severance and benefits payments to these employees, totaled $8.0 million. We anticipate that the expected decrease in operating expenses from this action will be offset by continued investment in strategic growth areas. Restructuring and other expenses also included a non recurring charge of $18.9 million associated with the termination of a development contract related to a new campus construction project that has been put on hold. 53 Interest Income and Interest Expense Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income decreased to $42.9 million in fiscal year 2009, from $64.3 million in fiscal year 2008, primarily due to the result of lower average balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and lower interest rates in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. Interest income increased to $64.3 million in fiscal year 2008 from $41.8 million in fiscal year 2007 primarily due to the result of higher average balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and higher interest rates in fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007. Other Income (Expense), net Other income and expense primarily consists of realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and foreign currency translation. Other income (expense) was $(14.7) million and $0.8 million in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively, a decrease of $15.5 million. This decrease was primarily due to other than temporary impairment charges of $9.9 million that we recorded during fiscal year 2009. These charges include $5.6 million related to what we believe is an other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund; $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that have filed for bankruptcy as of January 25, 2009. Please refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Other income (expense) was $0.8 million and $(0.8) million for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, an increase of $1.5 million. The increase in other income during fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007 is primarily due to approximately $2.0 million of realized gains on sale of an investment offset by an increase in foreign currency transaction losses in fiscal year 2008. Income Taxes We recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $(12.9) million, $103.7 million and $46.4 million during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Income tax expense (benefit) as a percentage of income (loss) before taxes, or our annual effective tax rate, was (30.0) % in fiscal year 2009, 11.5% in fiscal year 2008 and 9.4% in fiscal year 2007. The difference in the effective tax rates amongst the three years was primarily a result of changes in our geographic mix of income subject to tax, with the additional impact of the federal research tax credit recognized in fiscal year 2009 relative to the loss before taxes in such fiscal year. Please refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the components of our income tax expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources January 25, 2009 January 27, 2008 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 417.7 $ 727.0 Marketable securities 837.7 1,082.5 Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 1,255.4 $ 1,809.5 Year Ended January 25, January 27, January 28, 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 249.4 $ 1,270.2 $ 572.7 Net cash used in investing activities (209.4 ) (761.3 ) (526.4 ) Net cash used in financing activities (349.3 ) (326.3 ) (53.6 ) As of January 25, 2009, we had $1.26 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, a decrease of $554.1 million from the end of fiscal year 2008. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed by several financial institutions. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration. 54 Operating activities Operating activities generated cash of $249.4 million, $1.27 billion and $572.7 million during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The cash provided by operating activities decreased in fiscal year 2009 due to a decrease in our net income compared to fiscal year 2008 plus the impact of non cash charges to earnings and deferred income taxes. During fiscal year 2009, non cash charges to earnings included stock based compensation of $162.7 million and depreciation and amortization on our long term assets of $185.0 million. Additionally, operating cash flows for fiscal year 2009 also declined due to changes in operating assets and liabilities, including the timing of payments to vendors and a decrease in inventory turnover. Additionally, we incurred $21.8 million in net cash outflows in fiscal year 2009 towards a confidential patent licensing agreement that we entered into in fiscal year 2007. The increase in cash flows from operating activities in fiscal year 2008 when compared to fiscal year 2007 was primarily due to an increase in our net income during the comparable periods plus the impact of non cash charges to earnings. During fiscal year 2008, non cash charges to earnings included stock based compensation of $133.4 million and depreciation and amortization on our long term assets of $133.2 million. Additionally, operating cash flows for fiscal year 2008 also improved due to changes in operating assets and liabilities, including the timing of payments to vendors and an improvement in inventory turnover. These increases were offset by approximately $57.3 million in net cash outflows towards a confidential patent licensing agreement that we entered into in fiscal year 2007. The increase in cash flows from operating activities in fiscal year 2007 when compared to fiscal year 2006 was primarily due to an increase in our net income during the comparable periods plus the impact of non cash charges to earnings. Additionally, the increase is related to the $116.7 million of stock based compensation expense recorded upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in fiscal year 2007 and changes in operating assets and liabilities in fiscal years 2007 and 2006. Investing activities Investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and sales of marketable securities, acquisition of businesses and purchases of property and equipment, which include leasehold improvements for our facilities and intangible assets. Investing activities used cash of $209.4 million, $761.3 million and $526.4 million during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Investing activities for fiscal year 2009 provided cash of $226.7 million from the net proceeds from sales of marketable securities and used $27.9 million in connection with our acquisition of Ageia. Investing activities also included $407.7 million cash used for capital expenditures, as we built additional facilities to accommodate our growing employee headcount, new research and development equipment, testing equipment to support our increased production requirements, technology licenses, software, intangible assets and leasehold improvements at our facilities in various international locations. Investing activities for capital expenditures in fiscal year 2009 included payment of approximately $183.8 million for purchase of a property in Santa Clara, California, that includes approximately 25 acres of land and ten commercial buildings. Our original plans for the purchased property included constructing a new campus on the site. We are currently re evaluating those plans. Investing activities for fiscal year 2008 used cash of $496.4 million towards the net purchases of marketable securities, resulting from the need to invest the additional amounts of cash we received from operating activities, and $75.5 million for our acquisition of Mental Images. Investing activities for fiscal 2008 also included $187.7 million of capital expenditures. Capital expenditures included purchase of property in anticipation of building additional facilities to accommodate our growing employee headcount, new research and development equipment, testing equipment to support our increased production requirements, technology licenses, software, intangible assets and leasehold improvements at our facilities in various international locations. In fiscal year 2007, net cash used in investing activities included $401.8 million used for our acquisitions of PortalPlayer, ULi and Hybrid Graphics. Additionally, net cash used in investing activities included capital expenditures of $130.8 million attributable to new research and development equipment, hardware equipment, technology licenses, software, intangible assets and leasehold improvements at our various facilities. Financing activities Financing activities used cash of $349.3 million, $326.3 million and $53.6 million during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net cash used by financing activities in fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to $423.6 million used in our stock repurchase program, offset by cash proceeds of $73.5 million from common stock issued under our employee stock plans. Net cash used by financing activities in fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to $552.5 million used in our stock repurchase program, offset by cash proceeds of $226.0 million from common stock issued under our employee stock plans. During fiscal year 2007, net cash used by financing activities towards payments under our stock repurchase program was $275.0 million. These uses of cash in financing activities were offset by cash proceeds from common stock issued under our employee stock plans of $221.2 million for fiscal year 2007. 55 Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated by our operations. Our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents, asset backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage backed securities issued by government sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in United States dollars. As of January 25, 2009, we did not have any investments in auction rate preferred securities. We account for our investment instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, or SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale under SFAS No. 115. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in our statement of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in market values are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of January 25, 2009 and January 27, 2008, we had $1.26 billion and $1.81 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. As of January 25, 2009, we were in compliance with our investment policy. As of January 25, 2009, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 71% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector, which has been negatively impacted by recent market liquidity conditions, accounted for approximately 17% of our total investment portfolio. Substantially all of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities with the substantial majority of the securities rated AA /Aa3 or better. We performed an impairment review of our investment portfolio as of January 25, 2009. Currently, we have the intent and ability to hold our investments with impairment indicators until maturity. Based on our quarterly impairment review and having considered the guidance in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Staff Position No. 115 1, or FSP No. 115 1, A Guide to the Implementation of Statement 115 on Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, we recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $9.9 million during fiscal year 2009. These charges include $5.6 million related to what we believe is an other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund; $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that have filed for bankruptcy as of January 25, 2009. Please refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further details. We concluded that our investments were appropriately valued and that except for the $9.9 million impairment charges recognized in the year, no other than temporary impairment charges were necessary on our portfolio of available for sale investments as of January 25, 2009. Net realized gains (losses), excluding any impairment charges, for fiscal year 2009 was $2.1 million. Net realized gains (losses) for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were not material. As of January 25, 2009, we had a net unrealized gain of $4.4 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $7.8 million, offset by $3.4 million of gross unrealized losses. As of January 27, 2008, we had a net unrealized gain of $10.7 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $11.1 million, offset by $0.4 million of gross unrealized losses. As of January 25, 2009, our money market investment in the International Reserve Fund, which was valued at $124.4 million, net of other than temporary impairment charges, was classified as marketable securities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet due to the halting of redemption requests in September 2008 by the International Reserve Fund. Subsequent to year end, on January 30, 2009, we received $84.4 million from the International Reserve Fund. This was our portion of a payout of approximately 65% of the total assets of the Fund. Each shareholders percentage of this distribution was determined by dividing the shareholders total unfunded redeemed shares by the aggregate unfunded redeemed shares of the Fund, which was then used to calculate the shareholders pro rata portion of this distribution. We expect to receive the proceeds of our remaining investment in the International Reserve Fund, excluding the $5.6 million that we have recorded as an other than temporary impairment, by no later than October 2009, when all of the underlying securities held by the International Reserve Fund are scheduled to have matured. However, redemptions from the International Reserve Fund are currently subject to pending litigation, which could cause further delay in receipt of our funds. 56 Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. One customer accounted for approximately 18% of our accounts receivable balance at January 25, 2009. While we strive to limit our exposure to uncollectible accounts receivable using a combination of credit insurance and letters of credit, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. We continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write offs and or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. Cash Tender Offer On February 11, 2009, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a cash tender offer for certain employee stock options. The tender offer commenced on February 11, 2009 and expired at 12:00 midnight (Pacific Time) on March 11, 2009. The tender offer applied to outstanding stock options held by employees with an exercise price equal to or greater than $17.50 per share. None of the non employee members of our Board of Directors or our officers who file reports under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including our former Chief Financial Officer, Marvin D. Burkett, were eligible to participate in the Offer. All eligible options with exercise prices less than $28.00 per share, but not less than $17.50 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $3.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. All eligible options with exercise prices greater than $28.00 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $2.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. Please refer to Note 19 for further discussion regarding the cash tender offer for certain employee stock options that our Board of Directors approved in February 2009. Stock Repurchase Program During fiscal year 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors, or Board, had authorized a stock repurchase program to repurchase shares of our common stock, subject to certain specifications, up to an aggregate maximum amount of $300 million. During fiscal year 2007, the Board further approved an increase of $400 million to the original stock repurchase program. In fiscal year 2008, we announced a stock repurchase program under which we may purchase up to an additional $1.0 billion of our common stock over a three year period through May 2010. On August 12, 2008, we announced that our Board further authorized an additional increase of $1.0 billion to the stock repurchase program. As a result of these increases, we have an ongoing authorization from the Board, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2010. The repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured stock repurchase programs, and may be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, Rule 10b 18, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we have entered into, and we may continue to enter into, structured share repurchase transactions with financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement. During the three months ended January 25, 2009, we did not enter into any structured share repurchase transactions or otherwise purchase any shares of our common stock. During fiscal year 2009, we entered into structured share repurchase transactions to repurchase 29.3 million shares for $423.6 million, which we recorded on the trade date of the transactions. Through fiscal year 2009, we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion. As of January 25, 2009, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an additional amount of $1.24 billion through May 2010. 57 Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements. We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating, acquisition and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, which could harm our business. Factors that could affect our cash used or generated from operations and, as a result, our need to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume production our next generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. We expect to spend approximately $200 million to $250 million for capital expenditures during fiscal year 2010, primarily for property development, leasehold improvements, software licenses, emulation equipment, computers and engineering workstations. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. For additional factors see Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. 3dfx Asset Purchase On December 15, 2000, NVIDIA Corporation and one of our indirect subsidiaries entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement, or APA, which closed on April 18, 2001, to purchase certain graphics chip assets from 3dfx. Under the terms of the APA, the cash consideration due at the closing was $70.0 million, less $15.0 million that was loaned to 3dfx pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated December 15, 2000. The Asset Purchase Agreement also provided, subject to the other provisions thereof, that if 3dfx properly certified that all its debts and other liabilities had been provided for, then we would have been obligated to pay 3dfx one million shares, which due to subsequent stock splits now totals six million shares, of NVIDIA common stock. If 3dfx could not make such a certification, but instead properly certified that its debts and liabilities could be satisfied for less than $25.0 million, then 3dfx could have elected to receive a cash payment equal to the amount of such debts and liabilities and a reduced number of shares of our common stock, with such reduction calculated by dividing the cash payment by $25.00 per share. If 3dfx could not certify that all of its debts and liabilities had been provided for, or could not be satisfied, for less than $25.0 million, we would not be obligated under the agreement to pay any additional consideration for the assets. In October 2002, 3dfx filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California. In March 2003, we were served with a complaint filed by the Trustee appointed by the Bankruptcy Court which sought, among other things, payments from us as additional purchase price related to our purchase of certain assets of 3dfx. In early November 2005, after several months of mediation, NVIDIA and the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, or the Creditors Committee, agreed to a Plan of Liquidation of 3dfx, which included a conditional settlement of the Trustees claims against us. This conditional settlement was subject to a confirmation process through a vote of creditors and the review and approval of the Bankruptcy Court. The conditional settlement called for a payment by NVIDIA of approximately $30.6 million to the 3dfx estate. Under the settlement, $5.6 million related to various administrative expenses and Trustee fees, and $25.0 million related to the satisfaction of debts and liabilities owed to the general unsecured creditors of 3dfx. Accordingly, during the three month period ended October 30, 2005, we recorded $5.6 million as a charge to settlement costs and $25.0 million as additional purchase price for 3dfx. The Trustee advised that he intended to object to the settlement. The conditional settlement never progressed substantially through the confirmation process. On December 21, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court scheduled a trial for one portion of the Trustees case against NVIDIA. On January 2, 2007, NVIDIA terminated the settlement agreement on grounds that the Bankruptcy Court had failed to proceed toward confirmation of the Creditors Committees plan. A non jury trial began on March 21, 2007 on valuation issues in the Trustees constructive fraudulent transfer claims against NVIDIA. Specifically, the Bankruptcy Court tried four questions: (1) what did 3dfx transfer to NVIDIA in the APA?; (2) of what was transferred, what qualifies as "property" subject to the Bankruptcy Courts avoidance powers under the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act and relevant bankruptcy code provisions?; (3) what is the fair market value of the "property" identified in answer to question (2)?; and (4) was the $70 million that NVIDIA paid "reasonably equivalent" to the fair market value of that property? The parties completed post trial briefing on May 25, 2007. 58 On April 30, 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued its Memorandum Decision After Trial, in which it provided a detailed summary of the trial proceedings and the parties contentions and evidence and concluded that "the creditors of 3dfx were not injured by the Transaction." This decision did not entirely dispose of the Trustees action, however, as the Trustees claims for successor liability and intentional fraudulent conveyance were still pending. On June 19, 2008, NVIDIA filed a motion for summary judgment to convert the Memorandum Decision After Trial to a final judgment. That motion was granted in its entirety and judgment was entered in NVIDIAs favor on September 11, 2008. The Trustee filed a Notice of Appeal from that judgment on September 22, 2008, and on September 25, 2008, NVIDIA exercised its election to have the appeal heard by the United States District Court, where the appeal is pending. While the conditional settlement reached in November 2005 never progressed through the confirmation process, the Trustees case still remains pending appeal. As such, we have not reversed the accrual of $30.6 million $5.6 million as a charge to settlement costs and $25.0 million as additional purchase price for 3dfx that we recorded during the three months ended October 30, 2005, pending resolution of the appeal of the Trustees case. We do not believe the resolution of this matter will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this litigation. Product Defect Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including for customers costs to repair or replace the products in the field. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. In July 2008, we recorded a $196.0 million charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook systems. All of our newly manufactured products and all of our products that are currently shipping in volume have a different material set that we believe is more robust. The previous generation MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these MCP and GPU products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. While we have not been able to determine a root cause for these failures, testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors. We have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. We have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the MCP and GPU products in their notebook system designs. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted MCP and GPU products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. We continue to engage in discussions with our supply chain regarding reimbursement to us for some or all of the costs we have incurred and may incur in the future relating to the weak material set. We also continue to seek to access our insurance coverage, which provided us with $8.0 million in related reimbursement during fiscal year 2009. However, there can be no assurance that we will recover any additional reimbursement. We continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using NVIDIA products other than certain notebook configurations. However, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. There can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other MCP or GPU products. Determining the amount of the $196.0 million charge related to this issue required management to make estimates and judgments based on historical experience, test data and various other assumptions including estimated field failure rates that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these judgments formed the basis for our estimate of the total charge to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return and replacement and other associated costs. However, if actual repair, return, replacement and other associated costs and or actual field failure rates exceed our estimates, we may be required to record additional reserves, which would increase our cost of revenue and materially harm our financial results. In September, October and November 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this litigation. 59 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of January 25, 2009: Contractual Obligations Total Within 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years All Other (In thousands) Operating leases $ 153,625 $ 44,448 $ 83,959 $ 21,150 $ 4,068 $ Capital lease 47,976 4,185 8,751 9,283 25,757 Purchase obligations (1) 290,662 290,662 FIN 48 liability and interest (2) 107,116 107,116 Capital purchase obligations 20,328 20,328 Total contractual obligations $ 619,707 $ 359,623 $ 92,710 $ 30,433 $ 29,825 $ 107,116 (1) Represents our inventory purchase commitments as of January 25, 2009. (2) Represents our FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest/penalty payable for $95.3 million and $11.8 million, respectively, as of January 25, 2009. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest/penalty payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 25, 2009, we had no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S K 303(a)(4)(ii). Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for a discussion of adoption of new accounting pronouncements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 60 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Investment and Interest Rate Risk As of January 25, 2009 and January 27, 2008, we had $1.26 billion and $1.81 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage backed securities issued by Government sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. As of January 25, 2009, we did not have any investments in auction rate preferred securities. Our investments are denominated in United States dollars. We account for our investment instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, or SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale under SFAS No. 115. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of January 25, 2009, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. According to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $4.4 million. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. Other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. For instance, we recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $9.9 million during fiscal year 2009. These charges include $5.6 million related to what we believe is an other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund; $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that have filed for bankruptcy as of January 25, 2009. Please refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further details. As of January 25, 2009, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 71% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 17% of our total investment portfolio. Substantially all of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities with the substantial majority of the securities rated AA /Aa3 or better. If the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2% 5%, it would result in changes in fair market values for these investments by approximately $25 $63 million. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in Other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Financial Statements and to date have not been significant. The impact of foreign currency transaction loss included in determining net income (loss) for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2.0 million, $1.7 million and $0.5 million, respectively. Currently, sales and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. We may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. There were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at January 25, 2009. 61 
 
