ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 6. Selected Financial Data, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. Overview Our Company NVIDIA Corporation helped awaken the world to the power of computer graphics when it invented the graphics processor unit, or GPU, in 1999. Expertise in programmable GPUs has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and widely accessible. We serve the entertainment and consumer market with our GeForce graphics products, the professional design and visualization market with our Quadro graphics products, the high performance computing market with our Tesla computing solutions products, and the mobile computing market with our Tegra system on a chip products. During the last several fiscal years, we have operated and reported four major product line operating segments: the GPU business, the professional solutions business, or PSB, the media and communications processor, or MCP, business, and the consumer products business, or CPB. However, effective with the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we will no longer separate our MCP and GPU operating segments as such segmentation will no longer be reflective of the way we manage those businesses. Our GPU business is comprised primarily of our GeForce products that support desktop and notebook personal computers, or PCs, in addition to memory products. Our PSB is comprised of our NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high performance computing products. Our MCP business, as we have reported it through fiscal year 2010, has been comprised primarily of ION mGPU products. Our ION family of products addresses the integrated core logic market. Our CPB is comprised of our Tegra mobile products that support tablets and smartbooks, smartphones, personal media players, or PMPs, internet television, automotive navigation, and other similar devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. Original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers, add in card manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies worldwide utilize our processors as a core component of their entertainment, business and professional solutions. We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our headquarter facilities are in Santa Clara, California. Our Internet address is www.nvidia.com. The contents of our website are not a part of this Form 10 K. Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges GPU Business During fiscal year 2010, we introduced our next generation CUDA GPU architecture, codenamed Fermi. We expect the Fermi architecture to be the foundation for computational GPUs, and to enable breakthroughs in both graphics and parallel computing. During fiscal year 2010, we also delivered our first 40nm GPUs to customers. Because of limited 40nm wafer foundry capacity, plus supplier challenges related to 40nm process manufacturing yields, we have been forced to allocate our available 40nm product supply among our customers. We are currently working with our foundry partners to address these challenges. Professional Solutions Business Corporate demand, which comprises a substantial percentage of the demand for our professional workstation products, has recently shown some signs of economic recovery. Workstation product revenue currently comprises a significant portion of our total PSB revenue. Therefore, if corporate demand continues to recover, we expect this trend to continue to have a positive impact on our overall gross profit and gross margin, as the gross margin experienced by our PSB is generally higher than our overall gross margin. 37 MCP Business During fiscal year 2010, we began redirecting our development strategy in our MCP business in response to our on going dispute with Intel. In February 2009, Intel filed suit against us related to a chipset license agreement that we entered into with Intel in 2004. In March 2009, we asserted counterclaims against Intel pursuant to which we seek an order declaring that Intel breached the chipset license agreement as well as the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing underlying the license agreements, and seeking, among other things, termination of Intels cross license to our technology. Notwithstanding our belief that the chipset license agreement extends to a component of the new Intel processor architecture referred to as Direct Media Interface, or DMI, we currently have no intention of building a DMI based chipset while this dispute remains unresolved. As a result, we began redirecting our MCP development resources to other programs. Consumer Products Business During fiscal year 2010, we demonstrated the Tegra 600 Series, our first generation system on a chip that enables an always on, always connected HD netbook that can go days between battery charges. Also, during fiscal year 2010, our Tegra product was included in Microsofts Zune HD and the Samsung M1, both of which were being sold in the marketplace. In addition, we announced our next generation of Tegra processing technology during the recent Consumer Electronics Show in January 2010. Tegra is the processor for the mobile web, specifically designed for the high resolution needs of tablets. Tegra combines browsing, streaming 1080p video and Flash 10.1 acceleration with a 3D user interface and days of battery life. We have multiple next generation Tegra design wins in tablets, smartbooks and smartphones, with the first of these expected to ship during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Weve also announced that Volkswagen and Audi will use next generation Tegra starting in 2012. Additionally, we announced 3D Vision Surround for GeForce, a high definition 3D stereo solution for the home at the recent Consumer Electronics Show in January 2010. 3D Vision is a combination of wireless glasses, a high power infrared emitter and software that transforms PC games into full stereoscopic 3D experiences. Over 420 games now support NVIDIA 3D Vision. Tender Offer During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a cash tender offer for certain employee stock options. The tender offer applied to outstanding stock options held by employees with an exercise price equal to or greater than $17.50 per share. None of the non employee members of our Board of Directors or our officers who file reports under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including our former Chief Financial Officer, Marvin D. Burkett, were eligible to participate in the Offer. All eligible options with exercise prices less than $28.00 per share, but not less than $17.50 per share, were eligible to receive a cash payment of $3.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. All eligible options with exercise prices greater than $28.00 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $2.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. A total of 28.5 million options were tendered under the offer for an aggregate cash purchase price of $78.1 million, which was paid in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible options. As a result of the tender offer, we incurred a charge of $140.2 million consisting of $124.1 million related to the remaining unamortized stock based compensation expense associated with the unvested portion of the options tendered in the offer, $11.6 million related to stock based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the underlying options, plus $4.5 million related to associated payroll taxes, professional fees and other costs. 38 Product Defect Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including for customers costs to repair or replace the products in the field, which could cause our revenue to decline. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded an additional net warranty charge of $95.8 million against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook systems. This charge included an additional accrual of $164.4 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $68.6 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal year 2010. During fiscal year 2009, we recorded a net warranty charge of $189.3 million charge against cost of revenue for the purpose of supporting the product repair costs of our affected customers around the world. This charge included an accrual of $196.0 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $6.7 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal year 2009. Although the number of units that we estimate will be impacted by this issue remains consistent with our initial estimates in July 2008, the overall cost of remediation and repair of impacted systems has been higher than originally anticipated. The weak die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are currently in production. The previous generation MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. While we have not been able to determine with certainty a root cause for these failures, testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors. We have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. We have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the products in their notebook system designs. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. We continue to seek access to our insurance coverage regarding reimbursement to us for some or all of the costs we have incurred and may incur in the future relating to the weak material set. However, there can be no assurance that we will recover any additional reimbursement. We continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using NVIDIA products other than certain notebook configurations. However, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. There can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other products. In September, October and November 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this litigation. Subsequent Event Our Board of Directors has authorized us, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2010. Through January 31, 2010, we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion. As of January 31, 2010, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an additional amount of $1.24 billion through May 2010. On March 16, 2010, our Board of Directors further authorized an extension of the stock repurchase program from May 2010 to May 2013. The repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured stock repurchase programs, and may be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we have entered into, and we may continue to enter into, structured share repurchase transactions with financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement. 39 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related disclosure of contingencies. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, goodwill, stock based compensation, warranty liabilities, litigation, investigation and settlement costs and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board. The Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Revenue Recognition Product Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the price is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. For most sales, we use a binding purchase order and in certain cases we use a contractual agreement as evidence of an arrangement. We consider delivery to occur upon shipment provided title and risk of loss have passed to the customer based on the shipping terms. At the point of sale, we assess whether the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable and whether collection is reasonably assured. If we determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the fee and recognize revenue at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of payment. Our policy on sales to certain distributors, with rights of return, is to defer recognition of revenue and related cost of revenue until the distributors resell the product. Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets. We accrue for 100% of the potential rebates and do not apply a breakage factor. We recognize a liability for these rebates at the later of the date at which we record the related revenue or the date at which we offer the rebate. Rebates typically expire six months from the date of the original sale, unless we reasonably believe that the customer intends to claim the rebate. Unclaimed rebates are reversed to revenue. Our customer programs also include marketing development funds, or MDFs. We account for MDFs as either a reduction of revenue or an operating expense. MDFs represent monies paid to retailers, system builders, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, distributors and add in card partners that are earmarked for market segment development and expansion and typically are designed to support our partners activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. Depending on market conditions, we may take actions to increase amounts offered under customer programs, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue or incremental operating expense at the time such programs are offered. We also record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a particular fiscal period exceed historical return rates we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns. 40 License and Development Revenue For license arrangements that require significant customization of our intellectual property components, we generally recognize this license revenue over the period that services are performed. For all license and service arrangements, we determine progress to completion based on actual direct labor hours incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total direct labor hours required to complete the project. We periodically evaluate the actual status of each project to ensure that the estimates to complete each contract remain accurate. A provision for estimated losses on contracts is made in the period in which the loss becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. Costs incurred in advance of revenue recognized are recorded as deferred costs on uncompleted contracts. If the amount billed exceeds the amount of revenue recognized, the excess amount is recorded as deferred revenue. Revenue recognized in any period is dependent on our progress toward completion of projects in progress. Significant management judgment and discretion are used to estimate total direct labor hours. Any changes in or deviations from these estimates could have a material effect on the amount of revenue we recognize in any period. Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Management determines this allowance, which consists of an amount identified for specific customer issues as well as an amount based on overall estimated exposure. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. Our overall estimated exposure excludes significant amounts that are covered by credit insurance and letters of credit. If the financial condition of our customers, the financial institutions providing letters of credit, or our credit insurance carrier were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen, such as the when the worldwide economy is experiencing a significant downturn. The financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and increased the risk that financial institutions mighty consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a lower than normal level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow on effects from this type of credit crisis on our business, including inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and or customer, insolvencies and failure of financial institutions, which could negatively impact our financial results. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain credit insurance in the future. As of January 31, 2010, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable was $1.0 million and our gross accounts receivable balance was $414.0 million. Of the $414.0 million, $95.9 million was covered by credit insurance and $15.8 million was covered by letters of credit. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required and we may have to record additional reserves or write offs on certain sales transactions in the future. Factors impacting the allowance include the level of gross receivables, the financial condition of our customers and the extent to which balances are covered by credit insurance or letters of credit. We have incurred cumulative bad debts of $0.5 million over the last three fiscal years. As a result of our low bad debt experience, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable has ranged between 0.1% and 0.3% during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of January 31, 2010, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable represented 0.2% of our gross accounts receivable balance. Inventories Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis; which approximates actual cost on an average or first in, first out basis. We write down our inventory for estimated lower of cost or market, obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand, future product purchase commitments, estimated manufacturing yield levels and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if our future product purchase commitments to our suppliers exceed our forecasted future demand for such products, additional future inventory write downs may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. Inventory reserves once established are not reversed until the related inventory has been sold or scrapped, so if actual market conditions are more favorable in the fiscal periods subsequent to that in which we record larger than normal inventory reserves, we may have higher gross margins when products are sold. As of January 31, 2010, our inventory reserve was $64.8 million. As a percentage of our gross inventory balance, our inventory reserve has ranged between 7.8% and 19.6% during fiscal years 2010 and 2009. As of January 31, 2010, our inventory reserve represented 16.4% of our gross inventory balance. 41 Warranty Liabilities Cost of revenue includes the estimated cost of product warranties that are calculated at the point of revenue recognition. Under limited circumstances, we may offer an extended limited warranty to customers for certain products. Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. During fiscal years 2010 and 2009, we recorded $164.4 million and $196.0 million, respectively, as warranty charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook systems. The MCP and GPU products that were impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these MCP and GPU products were identified as failing in the field at higher than normal rates. Determining the amount of the warranty charges related to this issue required management to make estimates and judgments based on historical experience, test data and various other assumptions including estimated field failure rates that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these judgments formed the basis for our estimate of the total charge to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return and replacement and other associated costs. However, if actual repair, return, replacement and other associated costs and or actual field failure rates exceed our estimates, we may be required to record additional reserves, which would increase our cost of revenue and materially harm our financial results. Income Taxes We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized. United States income tax has not been provided on earnings of our non U.S. subsidiaries to the extent that such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. Our calculation of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the United States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential United States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements, accordingly. As of January 31, 2010, we had a valuation allowance of $113.4 million related to state and certain foreign deferred tax assets that management determined are not likely to be realized due, in part, to projections of future taxable income and potential utilization limitations of tax attributes acquired as a result of stock ownership changes. To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more likely than not, we would recognize such deferred tax asset as an income tax benefit during the period the realization occurred. 42 Our deferred tax assets do not include the excess tax benefit related to stock based compensation that are a component of our federal and state net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards in the amount of $401.5 million as of January 31, 2010. Consistent with prior years, the excess tax benefit reflected in our net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards will be accounted for as a credit to stockholders equity, if and when realized. In determining if and when excess tax benefits have been realized, we have elected to do a with and without approach with respect to such excess tax benefits. We have also elected to ignore the indirect tax effects of stock based compensation deductions for financial and accounting reporting purposes, and specifically to recognize the full effect of the research tax credit in income from continuing operations. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Please refer to Note 14 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for additional information. Goodwill Our impairment review process compares the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. We determined that our reporting units are equivalent to our operating segments, or components of an operating segment, for the purposes of completing our goodwill impairment test. We utilize a two step approach to testing goodwill for impairment. The first step tests for possible impairment by applying a fair value based test. In computing fair value of our reporting units, we use estimates of future revenues, costs and cash flows from such units. The second step, if necessary, measures the amount of such impairment by applying fair value based tests to individual assets and liabilities. Goodwill is subject to our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair value based approach. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, our market capitalization increased over 100% when compared to the same period in fiscal year 2009. We completed our most recent annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 and concluded that there was no impairment as the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying value. This assessment was based upon a discounted cash flow analysis, analysis of market comparables, where appropriate, and analysis of our market capitalization. Determining the number of reporting units and the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We also make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Our estimates of cash flows were based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operating performance, such as revenue growth rates, operating margins, risk adjusted discount rates, and future economic and market conditions. Our estimates of discounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to our business model or changes in operating performance. Additionally, certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses with limited financial history and developing revenue models, which increases the risk of differences between the projected and actual performance. The long term financial forecasts that we utilize represent the best estimate that we have at this time and we believe that its underlying assumptions are reasonable. Significant differences between our estimates and actual cash flows could materially affect our future financial results, which could impact our future estimates of the fair value of some or all of our reporting units. Determining the fair value of our reporting units also requires us to use judgment in the selection of appropriate market comparables, if there are any, and the amount of weight to ascribe to fair value measurements that are based on the market approach. Any significant reductions in the actual amount of cash flows realized by our reporting units, reductions in the value of market comparables, or reductions in our market capitalization could impact future estimates of the fair value of our reporting units. Such events could ultimately result in a charge to our earnings in future periods due to the potential for a write down of the goodwill associated with some or all of our reporting units. 43 Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Cash equivalents consist of financial instruments which are readily convertible into cash and have original maturities of three months or less at the time of acquisition. Marketable securities consist primarily of highly liquid investments with maturities of greater than three months when purchased. We generally classify our marketable securities at the date of acquisition as available for sale. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. Any unrealized losses which are considered to be other than temporary impairments are recorded in the other income (expense) section of our consolidated statements of operations. Realized gains (losses) on the sale of marketable securities are determined using the specific identification method and recorded in the other income (expense) section of our consolidated statements of operations. Please refer to Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K. We measure our cash equivalents and marketable securities at fair value. The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. Level 1 valuations are obtained from real time quotes for transactions in active exchange markets involving identical assets. Level 2 valuations are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets involving similar assets. Level 3 valuations are based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and include our own data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances. Each level of input has different levels of subjectivity and difficulty involved in determining fair value. While most of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are valued based on Level 2 inputs, the valuation of our holdings of the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund are classified as a Level 3 input due to the inherent subjectivity and the significant judgment involved in its valuation. Total financial assets at fair value classified within Level 3 were 0.4% of total assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2010. All of our available for sale investments are subject to a periodic impairment review. We record a charge to earnings when a decline in fair value is significantly below cost basis and judged to be other than temporary, or have other indicators of impairments. If the fair value of an available for sale debt instrument is less than its amortized cost basis, an other than temporary impairment is triggered in circumstances where (1) we intend to sell the instrument, (2) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the instrument before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or (3) a credit loss exists where we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the instrument. If we intend to sell or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the available for sale debt instrument before recovery of its amortized cost basis, we recognize an other than temporary impairment in earnings equal to the entire difference between the debt instruments amortized cost basis and its fair value. For available for sale debt instruments that are considered other than temporarily impaired due to the existence of a credit loss, if we do not intend to sell and it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the instrument before recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis (amortized cost basis less any current period credit loss), we separate the amount of the impairment into the amount that is credit related and the amount due to all other factors. The credit loss component is recognized in earnings. Stock based Compensation Our stock based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the awards, and is recognized as expense over the requisite employee service period.We recognize stock based compensation expense using the straight line attribution method. We estimate the fair value of employee stock options on the date of grant using a binomial model and we use the closing trading price of our common stock on the date of grant as the fair value of awards of restricted stock units, or RSUs. The determination of fair value of share based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, vesting schedules, death and disability probabilities, expected volatility and risk free interest. Our management has determined that the use of implied volatility is expected to be more reflective of market conditions and, therefore, can reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of our expected volatility than historical volatility. The risk free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of our employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts. We began segregating options into groups for employees with relatively homogeneous exercise behavior in order to calculate the best estimate of fair value using the binomial valuation model. Using the binomial model, we estimated the fair value of the stock options granted under our stock option plans using the following assumptions during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010: Weighted average expected life of stock options (in years) 3.7 5.8 Risk free interest rate 1.8% 2.9 % Volatility 45% 72 % Dividend yield 44 We used the Black Scholes model to estimate the fair value of shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, using the following assumptions: Weighted average expected life of stock options (in years) 0.5 2.0 Risk free interest rate 0.2 1.0 % Volatility 53% 73 % Dividend yield Accounting standards also require forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on our historical experience. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of accounting standards in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under these accounting standards may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. Litigation, Investigation and Settlement Costs From time to time, we are involved in legal actions and or investigations by regulatory bodies. We are aggressively defending our current litigation matters for which we are responsible. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation or investigations, and we cannot be certain that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation, fines and or substantial settlement payments. If that occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If information becomes available that causes us to determine that a loss in any of our pending litigation, investigations or settlements is probable, and we can reasonably estimate the loss associated with such events, we will record the loss in accordance with U.S.GAAP. However, the actual liability in any such litigation or investigations may be materially different from our estimates, which could require us to record additional costs. 45 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended January 31, 2010 January 25, 2009 January 27, 2008 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 100.0 % Cost of revenue 64.6 65.7 54.4 Gross profit 35.4 34.3 45.6 Operating expenses: Research and development 27.3 25.0 16.9 Sales, general and administrative 11.0 10.6 8.3 Restructuring charges and other 0.8 Total operating expenses 38.3 36.4 25.2 Income (loss) from operations (2.9) (2.1 ) 20.4 Interest and other income, net 0.5 0.8 1.6 Income (loss) before income taxes (2.4) (1.3 ) 22.0 Income tax expense (benefit) (0.4) (0.4 ) 2.5 Net income (loss) (2.0) % (0.9 )% 19.5 % Fiscal Years Ended January 31, 2010, January 25, 2009 and January 27, 2008 Revenue Fiscal Year 2010 vs. Fiscal Year 2009 Revenue was $3.33 billion for the fiscal year 2010 and $3.42 billion for fiscal year 2009, a decrease of 3%. A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business. GPU Business revenue decreased by 8% to $1.76 billion for fiscal year 2010 compared to $1.91 billion for fiscal year 2009. The decrease was primarily the result of a decline in sales of notebook GPUs, offset by a slight increase in sales of memory products. Sales of our notebook GPU products decreased by approximately 31% while sales of our desktop GPU products were essentially flat, increasing by only 1%, and our memory products increased by 38% as compared to fiscal year 2009. The decrease in notebook GPU revenue was driven primarily by a combination of a decline in unit demand and a decline in average selling price (ASPs) as a result of increased competition in the marketplace and due to share losses we experienced within the notebook segment, during calendar year 2009 compared to calendar year 2008 as reported in the November PC Graphics 2009 Report from Mercury Research. The very slight increase in sales of our desktop GPU products resulted from an increase in unit volume in fiscal year 2010, which was driven by a strong unit sales recovery during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, offset by a decline in ASPs for the full fiscal year, which was driven by pricing pressures in the marketplace for our high end and mainstream products. Sales of our memory products increased as a result of the overall increase in desktop GPU unit demand. PSB. PSB revenue decreased by 26% to $510.2 million for the fiscal year 2010 as compared to $693.4 million for fiscal year 2009. Both the ASPs and unit shipments of professional workstation products decreased, primarily due to the relatively slow recovery of corporate spending following the economic recession that began during fiscal year 2009. MCP Business. MCP Business revenue increased by 33% to $871.6 million for fiscal year 2010 as compared to $655.6 million for fiscal year 2009. The increase was a result of increased sales of our Intel based platform products by over 100%, offset by a decrease in sales of our AMD based platform products by approximately 12%. The increase in Intel based platform product sales was driven by sales of our ION products. The decrease in AMD based platform products was driven by limited availability of low end AMD CPUs in the marketplace during the last half of fiscal year 2010 as well as by AMD continuing to market their own chipset product lines in place of ours. CPB. CPB revenue increased by 20% to $163.9 million for fiscal year 2010 as compared to $136.3 million for fiscal year 2009. This increase in CPB revenue was primarily driven by sales growth from our embedded products for the automotive and entertainment markets, and was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from development arrangements and royalties from game console related products in the comparative periods. 46 Fiscal Year 2009 vs. Fiscal Year 2008 Revenue was $3.42 billion for fiscal year 2009, compared to $4.10 billion for fiscal year 2008, which represents a decrease of 16%. A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business. GPU business revenue decreased by 24% to $1.91 billion for fiscal year 2009, compared to $2.52 billion for fiscal year 2008. This decrease resulted from decreased sales of our desktop GPU and memory products, offset by increased sales of our notebook GPU products. Sales of our desktop GPU and memory products decreased by approximately 29% and 59%, respectively, in fiscal year 2009 when compared to fiscal year 2008. These decreases were primarily due to a decline in the Standalone Desktop market segment as reported in the December 2008 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research, driven by a combination of market migration from desktop PCs towards notebook PCs and an overall market shift in the mix of products towards lower priced products. This overall market decline translated into a decline of over 20% in the number of units of desktop GPU products that we sold in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. The decline in desktop GPU revenue also reflects the impact of a slight average sales price regression in our products and a decline in our share position during the middle portion of fiscal year 2009 as a result of increased competition. Memory sales declined as a result of a decline in sales of our high end desktop GPU products. Sales of our notebook GPU products increased approximately 3% in fiscal year 2009 when compared to fiscal year 2008, due to higher unit sales aided by a market move toward notebook PCs over desktop PCs, offset by a slight decline in average selling prices. Additionally, the overall global economic recessionary climate contributed to a significant decline in the demand for total graphics during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. PSB. PSB revenue increased by 18% to $693.4 million for fiscal year 2009, compared to $588.4 million for fiscal year 2008. Our NVIDIA professional workstation product sales increased due to an overall unit increase of approximately 15% in shipments of boards and chips as compared to fiscal year 2008, due to strong demand and our transition from previous generations of NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products to GeForce 8 based and GeForce 9 based products. Sales of NVIDIA Quadro CX for Adobes CS4 software, which we launched in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, also contributed towards the increase in sales in fiscal year 2009. MCP Business. MCP business revenue decreased by 8% to $655.6 million for fiscal year 2009, compared to $710.4 million for fiscal year 2008. This decrease was due to a decline of approximately 32% in sales of our AMD based platform products resulting from increased competition in AMD based products, offset by an increase of approximately 120% in sales of our Intel based platform products. The increase in Intel based product sales was driven by sales of our GeForce 9400M mGPU, which we launched in October 2008 along with Apple Inc., or Apple, for their new lineup of Mac notebooks, and our new GeForce 9400 and 9300 mGPUs for Intel desktop PCs. CPB. CPB revenue decreased by 46% to $136.3 million for fiscal year 2009, compared to $251.1 million for fiscal year 2008. The decline in CPB revenue is primarily driven by a combination of a decrease in revenue from our cell phone products and a decrease in revenue from Sony Computer Entertainment, or SCE. The decrease in revenue from our cell phone products resulted from our shift from marketing and developing legacy products to achieving design wins and marketing our newer Tegra products. The decrease in our revenue from SCE resulted from a decline in license revenue and a decline in royalty revenue that was caused by a lower number of units shipped as well as by a step down in the per unit royalty rate during the year due to achievement of a unit based milestone in our agreement with SCE. Concentration of Revenue We generated 84%, 87% and 89% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, from sales to customers outside the United States and other Americas. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the foreign contract equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, add in board and motherboard manufacturers revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location. Revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue for the respective dates, is summarized as follows: Year Ended January 31, 2010 January 25, 2009 January 27, 2008 Revenue: Customer A 12 % 7 % 5 % Customer B 9 % 8 % 10 % Customer C 7 % 11 % 7 % 47 Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also includes development costs for license, service arrangements and stock based compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing. Gross margin is the percentage of gross profit to revenue. Our gross margin was 35.4%, 34.3% and 45.6% for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our gross margin is significantly impacted by the mix of products we sell and can vary in any period depending on that product mix. Our strategy for improving our gross margin relies upon delivering competitive product offerings that allow us to maintain our market leadership position and expand our addressable markets, lowering our product costs by introducing product architectures that take advantage of smaller process geometries and improving our product mix. We expect gross margin to be in the range of 44% to 45% during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. A discussion of our gross margin results for each of our operating segments is as follows: Fiscal Year 2010 vs. Fiscal Year 2009 Our gross margin increased to 35.4% in fiscal year 2010 from 34.3% for fiscal year 2009. The improvement in gross margin was driven primarily by improved yields of our 55nm products, transition to 40nm products, as well as other manufacturing cost reductions, and more favorable product mix, particularly with increased sales of higher margin MCP products. Furthermore, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 our gross margin benefited from the sell through of inventory that had previously been written down in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. This did not have a significant impact on our gross margin for the remaining quarters in fiscal year 2010. Offsetting these improvements, we recorded a charge to cost of revenue, net of insurance reimbursement in the amount of $95.9 million in fiscal year 2010 compared to $189.3 million in fiscal year 2009 related to weak die/packing material set that was used in certain versions of our previous generation chips. GPU Business. The gross margin of our GPU Business decreased during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. This decline resulted from lower ASPs in our mainstream desktop GPU products as well as in our notebook GPU products that we believe were driven by pricing pressures in the marketplace over the comparable period. These factors were further exacerbated in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 as a result of losses we incurred selling certain older, transitioning products. These decreases in gross margins were offset by improving yields of our 55nm products, a transition to 40nm products, and other manufacturing cost reductions achieved during fiscal year 2010, plus a net benefit arising from the sell through of inventory during primarily the first half of fiscal year 2010 that had previously been written down in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. PSB. The gross margin of our PSB decreased during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in ASPs caused primarily by pricing pressure resulting from the relatively slow recovery of corporate spending during fiscal year 2010 following the economic recession that began during fiscal year 2009 . MCP Business. The gross margin of our MCP Business increased during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. This increase was primarily driven by a shift in product mix toward higher margin Intel based and AMD based platform products and a reduction in the warranty charge arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation products. In addition, we recorded greater benefits to cost of revenue for insurance reimbursements received during the comparable periods. CPB. The gross margin of our CPB decreased during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. This decrease was a result of declining revenue from higher margin products and services, including development arrangements and royalties from game console related products, in the comparative periods. 48 Fiscal Year 2009 vs. Fiscal Year 2008 Our gross margin declined to 34.3% in fiscal year 2009 from 45.6% for fiscal year 2008. The gross margin for fiscal year 2009 includes the impact of a $196.0 million charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook systems offset by allocated insurance claim proceeds of $6.7 million from an insurance provider. This warranty charge had an adverse impact of approximately 6.0% on our gross margin for fiscal year 2009. We also incurred a charge of $4.5 million related to a royalty dispute during fiscal year 2009. Additionally, inventory reserves taken during fiscal year 2009 were approximately $50.0 million higher compared to fiscal year 2008, reflecting a significant decline in our forecasted future demand for the related products and having a negative impact on our gross margin. GPU Business. The gross margin of our GPU business decreased during fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008. This decrease was due to a charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation GPU products used in notebook systems, the negative impact of inventory reserves taken during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, and average sales price regression in our GeForce 9 based and previous generations of desktop products resulting from increased competition. The average sales price regression was also driven by a combination of market migration from desktop PCs towards notebook PCs and an overall market shift in the mix of products towards lower priced products. PSB. The gross margin of our PSB increased slightly during fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008. This increase was primarily due to increased sales of our GeForce 9 based NVIDIA Quadro products, which began selling in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, and GeForce 8 based NVIDIA Quadro products, which generally have higher gross margins than our previous generations of NVIDIA Quadro products. MCP Business. The gross margin of our MCP business decreased during fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008, due to a decline in the margins of our AMD and Intel based products. During fiscal year 2009, gross margins declined primarily due to a charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP products used in notebook systems. CPB. The gross margin of our CPB increased during fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008. This increase was primarily due to changes in the product mix in our CPB product lines. We experienced greater revenue decline in our lower margin cell phone and other handheld devices product lines as compared to higher margin SCE transactions in the current year. Operating Expenses Year Ended Year Ended January 31, 2010 January 25, 2009 $ Change % Change January 25, 2009 January 27, 2008 $ Change % Change (In millions) (In millions) Research and development expenses $ 908.9 $ 855.9 $ 53.0 6 % $ 855.9 $ 691.6 $ 164.3 24 % Sales, general and administrative expenses 367.0 362.2 4.8 1 % 362.2 341.3 20.9 6 % Restructuring charges and other 26.9 (26.9 ) (100 % ) 26.9 26.9 100 % Total operating expenses $ 1,275.9 $ 1,245.0 $ 30.9 2.5 % $ 1,245.0 $ 1,032.9 $ 212.1 21 % Research and development as a percentage of net revenue 27% 25 % 25 % 17 % Sales, general and administrative as a percentage of net revenue 11% 11 % 11 % 8 % 49 Research and Development Fiscal Year 2010 vs. Fiscal Year 2009 Research and development expenses increased by $53.0 million, or 6%. The majority of the increase was caused by stock based compensation charges recorded during fiscal year 2010 of $90.5 million related to a tender offer that closed in March 2009, offset by a reduction in ongoing stock based compensation expense of $36.7 million resulting from the cancellation of stock options pursuant to the tender offer. Compensation and benefits related to research and development increased by $11.9 million due to additional new hires and depreciation and amortization expense increased by $4.2 million due to property and equipment purchases. Additionally, our cost reduction initiatives across several discretionary spending areas resulted in decreased expenses related to computer software and equipment of $7.7 million, travel and entertainment of $5.4 million, employee related expenses of $3.5 million, and development expenses of $2.8 million. Fiscal Year 2009 vs. Fiscal Year 2008 Research and development expenses increased by $164.3 million, or 24%. The increase was primarily due to increase in salaries and benefits by approximately $64.9 million primarily as a result of the net addition of approximately 500 personnel in departments related to research and development functions, offset by lower expenses during fiscal year 2009 related to our variable compensation programs when compared to fiscal year 2008. Stock based compensation expense increased by $21.4 million primarily because of the impact of new hire and semi annual stock awards granted subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, offset by a reduction in expense related to older stock awards that were almost fully vested and for which the related expense had been almost fully amortized by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. Development expenses increased by $18.8 million primarily due to increase in expenses related to engineering services, prototype materials and internal board requests. Other increases in research and development expenses are primarily related to costs that were driven by personnel growth, including depreciation and amortization, facilities, and computer software and equipment. Sales, General and Administrative Fiscal Year 2010 vs. Fiscal Year 2009 Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by $4.8 million, or 1%. The majority of the increase was caused by stock based compensation charges recorded during fiscal year 2010 of $38.3 million related to a tender offer that closed in March 2009, offset by a reduction in ongoing stock based compensation expense of $19.1 million resulting from the cancellation of stock options pursuant to the tender offer. The increase was also driven by an increase in compensation and benefits by $8.4 million due to additional new hires and professional fees by $11.3 million due to legal service charges. Offsetting these increases, our cost reduction initiatives across several discretionary spending areas resulted in decreased expenses related to advertising and promotions of $9.3 million, employee related expenses of $8.0 million, contract labor of $6.6 million, computer software and equipment of $6.5 million, and marketing of $5.4 million. Fiscal Year 2009 vs. Fiscal Year 2008 Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by $20.9 million, or 6%. Outside professional fees increased by $17.5 million primarily due to increased legal fees pertaining to ongoing litigation matters described in Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K. Marketing and advertising expenses increased by $22.3 million, primarily due to increased advertising campaign related activities and trade shows in the current year. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $15.4 million primarily due to amortization of intangible assets acquired from our acquisitions of Mental Images and Ageia, Technologies, Inc., and from increased capital expenditures. Stock based compensation expense increased by $6.9 million primarily due to the impact of new hire and semi annual stock awards granted subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, offset by a reduction in expense related to older stock awards that were almost fully vested and for which the related expense had been almost fully amortized by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. Headcount related to personnel in departments related to sales, general and administrative functions remained relatively flat year over year, but labor and related expenses decreased by $13.9 million due to lower expenses during fiscal year 2009 related to our variable compensation programs when compared to fiscal year 2008. 50 Restructuring Charges and Other We announced a workforce reduction to allow for continued investment in strategic growth areas during fiscal year 2009. As a result, we eliminated approximately 360 positions worldwide, or about 6.5% of our global workforce. During fiscal year 2009, expenses associated with the workforce reduction, which were comprised primarily of severance and benefits payments to these employees, totaled $8.0 million. Restructuring and other expenses in fiscal year 2009 also included a non recurring charge of $18.9 million associated with the termination of a development contract related to a new campus construction project that has been put on hold. There were no restructuring related charges in fiscal years 2010 or 2008. Interest Income and Interest Expense Interest income, net of interest expense consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income decreased to $19.8 million in fiscal year 2010, from $42.5 million in fiscal year 2009 primarily due to the result of lower interest rates and interest expense recorded on a capital lease for a data center in Santa Clara, California during fiscal year 2010. Interest income decreased to $42.5 million in fiscal year 2009 from $64.2 million in fiscal year 2008 primarily due to the result of lower average balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and lower interest rates in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. Other Income (Expense), net Other income and expense primarily consists of realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and foreign currency translation. Other (expense), net of other income was ($3.1) million, ($14.7) million, and $0.8 million in fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The fluctuation between these years was primarily due to other than temporary impairment charges of $9.9 million that we recorded during fiscal year 2009. These charges included $5.6 million related to an other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund, $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that had filed for bankruptcy. Please refer to Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Income Taxes We recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $(14.3) million, $(12.9) million and $103.7 million during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Income tax expense (benefit) as a percentage of income (loss) before taxes, or our annual effective tax rate, was 17.4 % in fiscal year 2010, 30.0% in fiscal year 2009 and 11.5% in fiscal year 2008. The difference in the effective tax rates amongst the three years was primarily a result of changes in our geographic mix of income subject to tax, with the additional impact of the federal research tax credit recognized in fiscal years 2010 and 2009 relative to the loss before taxes in such fiscal years. Please refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding the components of our income tax expense. 51 Liquidity and Capital Resources January 31, 2010 January 25, 2009 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 447.2 $ 417.7 Marketable securities 1,281.0 837.7 Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 1,728.2 $ 1,255.4 Year Ended January 31, January 25, January 27, 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 487.8 $ 249.4 $ 1,270.2 Net cash used in investing activities (519.3 ) (209.4 ) (761.3 ) Net cash used in financing activities 61.1 (349.3 ) (326.3 ) As of January 31, 2010, we had $1.73 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $472.8 million from the end of fiscal year 2009. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed by several financial institutions. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration. Operating activities Operating activities generated cash of $487.8 million, $249.4 million and $1.27 billion during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2010 when compared to fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to changes in operating assets and liabilities, including increases in accounts payable resulting from the timing of payments to vendors and a decrease in inventory resulting from an increase in inventory turnover. Additionally, while we experienced a net loss in fiscal year 2010 of $68.0 million, versus a net loss of $30.0 million in fiscal year 2009, non cash charges to earnings included stock based compensation of $242.8 million and depreciation and amortization of $196.7 million. The cash provided by operating activities decreased in fiscal year 2009 due to a decrease in our net income compared to fiscal year 2008 plus the impact of non cash charges to earnings and deferred income taxes. During fiscal year 2009, non cash charges to earnings included stock based compensation of $162.7 million and depreciation and amortization of $185.0 million. Additionally, operating cash flows for fiscal year 2009 also declined due to changes in operating assets and liabilities, including the timing of payments to vendors and a decrease in inventory turnover. Additionally, we incurred $21.8 million in net cash outflows in fiscal year 2009 towards a confidential patent licensing agreement that we entered into in fiscal year 2007. The increase in cash flows from operating activities in fiscal year 2008 when compared to fiscal year 2007 was primarily due to an increase in our net income during the comparable periods plus the impact of non cash charges to earnings. During fiscal year 2008, non cash charges to earnings included stock based compensation of $133.4 million and depreciation and amortization on our long term assets of $133.2 million. Additionally, operating cash flows for fiscal year 2008 also improved due to changes in operating assets and liabilities, including the timing of payments to vendors and an improvement in inventory turnover. These increases were offset by approximately $57.3 million in net cash outflows towards a confidential patent licensing agreement that we entered into in fiscal year 2007. 52 Investing activities Investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and sales of marketable securities, acquisition of businesses and purchases of property and equipment, which include leasehold improvements for our facilities and intangible assets. Investing activities used cash of $519.3 million, $209.4 million and $761.3 million during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Investing activities for fiscal year 2010 used cash of $441.5 million towards the purchase of marketable securities, net of proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Additionally, we used $77.6 million towards capital expenditures in fiscal year 2010. Capital expenditures included purchase of new research and development equipment, testing equipment to support our increased production requirements, technology licenses, software, intangible assets and leasehold improvements at our facilities in various international locations. Investing activities for fiscal year 2009 used cash of $27.9 million in connection with our acquisition of Ageia and $407.7 million towards capital expenditures, as we built additional facilities to accommodate our growing employee headcount, new research and development equipment, testing equipment to support our increased production requirements, technology licenses, software, intangible assets and leasehold improvements at our facilities in various international locations. Investing activities for capital expenditures in fiscal year 2009 also included payment of approximately $183.8 million for purchase of a property in Santa Clara, California, that includes approximately 25 acres of land and ten commercial buildings. Our original plans for the purchased property included constructing a new campus on the site. We are currently re evaluating those plans. This cash outflow is offset by $226.7 million of cash from the net proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Investing activities for fiscal year 2008 used cash of $496.4 million towards the net purchases of marketable securities, resulting from the need to invest the additional amounts of cash we received from operating activities, and $75.5 million for our acquisition of Mental Images. Investing activities for fiscal year 2008 also included $187.7 million of capital expenditures. Capital expenditures included purchase of property in anticipation of building additional facilities to accommodate our growing employee headcount, new research and development equipment, testing equipment to support our increased production requirements, technology licenses, software, intangible assets and leasehold improvements at our facilities in various international locations. Financing activities Financing activities provided cash of $61.1 million during fiscal year 2010, and used cash of $349.3 million and $326.3 million during fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to cash proceeds of $138.0 million from common stock issued under our employee stock plans, offset by $78.1 million used for the purchase of outstanding stock options related to a tender offer that closed in March 2009. Net cash used by financing activities in fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to $423.6 million used in our stock repurchase program, offset by cash proceeds of $73.5 million from common stock issued under our employee stock plans. Net cash used by financing activities in fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to $552.5 million used in our stock repurchase program, offset by cash proceeds of $226.0 million from common stock issued under our employee stock plans. 53 Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated by our operations. Our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents, asset backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage backed securities issued by government sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in United States dollars. As of January 31, 2010, we did not have any investments in auction rate preferred securities. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in our statement of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in market values are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of January 31, 2010 and January 25, 2009, we had $1.73 billion and $1.26 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. As of January 31, 2010, we were in compliance with our investment policy. As of January 31, 2010, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 62% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 22% of our total investment portfolio. All of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities. We performed an impairment review of our investment portfolio as of January 31, 2010. Based on our quarterly impairment review, we concluded that our investments were appropriately valued and did not record any impairment during fiscal year 2010. However, we recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $9.9 million during fiscal year 2009. These charges included $5.6 million related to an other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund, $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities, and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that had filed for bankruptcy. Please refer to Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further details. Net realized gains, excluding any impairment charges, were $1.8 million and $2.1 million for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net realized gains for fiscal year 2008 were not material. As of January 31, 2010, we had a net unrealized gain of $12.6 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $12.7 million, offset by $0.1 million of gross unrealized losses. As of January 25, 2009, we had a net unrealized gain of $4.4 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $7.8 million, offset by $3.4 million of gross unrealized losses. As of January 31, 2010, we held a money market investment in the International Reserve Fund, which was valued at $13.0 million, net of $5.6 million of other than temporary impairment charges that we recorded during fiscal year 2009. We reclassified this amount out of cash and cash equivalents in our Consolidated Balance Sheet due to the halting of redemption requests in September 2008 by the International Reserve Fund. The $13.0 million value of our holdings in the International Reserve Fund as of January 31, 2010 reflects an initial investment of $130.0 million, reduced by $111.4 million that we received from the International Reserve Fund during the fiscal year 2010 and the $5.6 million other than temporary impairment charge we recorded against the value of this investment during fiscal year 2009. The $111.4 million we received was our portion of a payout of approximately 85.6% of the total assets of the International Reserve Fund. All of the underlying securities held by the International Reserve Fund had matured by the end of fiscal year 2010. We expect to ultimately receive the proceeds from our remaining investment in the International Reserve Fund, excluding some or all of the $5.6 million impairment charges. However, redemptions from the International Reserve Fund are currently subject to pending litigation, which could cause further delay in receipt of our funds. 54 Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. Two customers accounted for approximately 20% of our accounts receivable balance at January 31, 2010. While we strive to limit our exposure to uncollectible accounts receivable using a combination of credit insurance and letters of credit, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. We continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write offs and or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. Cash Tender Offer During fiscal year 2010, our Board of Directors approved a cash tender offer for certain employee stock options. The tender offer commenced on February 11, 2009 and was completed during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. The tender offer applied to outstanding stock options held by employees with an exercise price equal to or greater than $17.50 per share. None of the non employee members of our Board of Directors or our officers who file reports under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 were eligible to participate in the tender offer. All eligible options with exercise prices equal to or greater than $17.50 per share but less than $28.00 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $3.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. All eligible options with exercise prices equal to or greater than $28.00 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $2.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. A total of 28.5 million options were tendered under the offer for an aggregate cash purchase price of $78.1 million, which was paid in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible options. As a result of the tender offer, we incurred a charge of $140.2 million consisting of $124.1 million related to the remaining unamortized stock based compensation expense associated with the unvested portion of the options tendered in the offer, $11.6 million related to stock based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the underlying options, plus $4.5 million related to associated payroll taxes, professional fees and other costs. Please refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion regarding the cash tender offer. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors has authorized us, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2010. The repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured stock repurchase programs, and may be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we have entered into, and we may continue to enter into, structured share repurchase transactions with financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement. We did not enter into any structured share repurchase transactions or otherwise purchase any shares of our common stock during fiscal year 2010. Through January 31, 2010, we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion. As of January 31, 2010, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an additional amount of $1.24 billion through May 2010. 55 Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements. We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating, acquisition and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, which could harm our business. Factors that could affect our cash used or generated from operations and, as a result, our need to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume production our next generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. We expect to spend approximately $110.0 million to $200.0 million for capital expenditures during fiscal year 2011, primarily for property development, leasehold improvements, software licenses, emulation equipment, computers and engineering workstations. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. For additional factors see Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners Our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. 3dfx Asset Purchase On December 15, 2000, NVIDIA Corporation and one of our indirect subsidiaries entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement, or APA, which closed on April 18, 2001, to purchase certain graphics chip assets from 3dfx. Under the terms of the APA, the cash consideration due at the closing was $70.0 million, less $15.0 million that was loaned to 3dfx pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated December 15, 2000. The APA also provided, subject to the other provisions thereof, that if 3dfx properly certified that all its debts and other liabilities had been provided for, then we would have been obligated to pay 3dfx one million shares, which due to subsequent stock splits now totals six million shares, of NVIDIA common stock. If 3dfx could not make such a certification, but instead properly certified that its debts and liabilities could be satisfied for less than $25.0 million, then 3dfx could have elected to receive a cash payment equal to the amount of such debts and liabilities and a reduced number of shares of our common stock, with such reduction calculated by dividing the cash payment by $25.00 per share. If 3dfx could not certify that all of its debts and liabilities had been provided for, or could not be satisfied, for less than $25.0 million, we would not be obligated under the agreement to pay any additional consideration for the assets. In October 2002, 3dfx filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California. In March 2003, we were served with a complaint filed by the Trustee appointed by the Bankruptcy Court which sought, among other things, payments from us as additional purchase price related to our purchase of certain assets of 3dfx. In early November 2005, NVIDIA and the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, or the Creditors Committee, agreed to a Plan of Liquidation of 3dfx, which included a conditional settlement of the Trustees claims against us. This conditional settlement was subject to a confirmation process through a vote of creditors and the review and approval of the Bankruptcy Court. The conditional settlement called for a payment by NVIDIA of approximately $30.6 million to the 3dfx estate. Under the settlement, $5.6 million related to various administrative expenses and Trustee fees, and $25.0 million related to the satisfaction of debts and liabilities owed to the general unsecured creditors of 3dfx. Accordingly, during the three month period ended October 30, 2005, we recorded $5.6 million as a charge to settlement costs and $25.0 million as additional purchase price for 3dfx. The Trustee advised that he intended to object to the settlement. The conditional settlement reached in November 2005 never progressed through the confirmation process and the Trustees case still remains pending appeal. As such, we have not reversed the accrual of $30.6 million ($5.6 million as a charge to settlement costs and $25.0 million as additional purchase price for 3dfx) that we recorded during the three months ended October 30, 2005, pending resolution of the appeal of the Trustees case. Please refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this litigation. 56 Product Defect During fiscal year 2010, we recorded an additional net warranty charge of $95.8 million against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook systems. This charge included an additional accrual of $164.4 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $68.6 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal year 2010. During fiscal year 2009, we recorded a net warranty charge of $189.3 million charge against cost of revenue for the purpose of supporting the product repair costs of our affected customers around the world. This charge included an accrual of $196.0 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $6.7 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal year 2009. Although the number of units that we estimate will be impacted by this issue remains consistent with our initial estimates in July 2008, the overall cost of remediation and repair of impacted systems has been higher than originally anticipated. The weak die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are currently in production. We continue to seek access to our insurance coverage regarding reimbursement to us for some or all of the costs we have incurred and may incur in the future relating to the weak material set. However, there can be no assurance that we will recover any additional reimbursement. Through January 31, 2010, we have made an aggregate of $233.5 million in cash payments related to the warranty accrual associated with incremental repair and replacement costs from the weak die/packaging material set and our remaining accrual balance was $88.1 million. In September, October and November 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this litigation. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of January 31, 2010: Contractual Obligations Total Within 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years All Other (In thousands) Operating leases $ 144,960 $ 46,905 $ 63,874 $ 15,786 $ 18,395 $ Capital lease 43,791 4,311 9,013 9,562 20,905 Purchase obligations (1) 461,988 461,988 Uncertain tax positions, interest and penalties (2) 120,997 120,997 Capital purchase obligations 25,177 25,177 Total contractual obligations $ 805,269 $ 540,301 $ 77,125 $ 27,546 $ 39,300 $ 120,997 (1) Represents our inventory purchase commitments as of January 31, 2010. (2) Represents unrecognized tax benefits of $109.8 million which consists of $42.2 million recorded in non current income taxes payable and $67.6 million reflected as a reduction to the related deferred tax assets, and the related interest and penalties on the non current income tax payable of $11.2 million as of January 31, 2010. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of any potential tax liability or interest/penalty payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the underlying income tax positions and the timing of the effective settlement of such tax positions. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 31, 2010, we had no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S K 303(a)(4)(ii). Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for a discussion of adoption of new accounting pronouncements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 57 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Investment and Interest Rate Risk As of January 31, 2010 and January 25, 2009, we had $1.73 billion and $1.26 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage backed securities issued by Government sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. As of January 31, 2010, we did not have any investments in auction rate preferred securities. Our investments are denominated in United States dollars. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of January 31, 2010, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. According to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $8.3 million. The financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and increased the possibility that financial institutions might consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. Other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. Volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. As of January 31, 2010, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 62% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 22% of our total investment portfolio. Of the financial sector investments, over half are guaranteed by the U.S. government. Substantially all of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities. If the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2% 5%, fair market values for these investments would decline by approximately $27 $67 million. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in Other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Financial Statements and to date have not been significant. The impact of foreign currency transaction loss included in determining net income (loss) for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $0.9 million, $2.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Currently, sales and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. We may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. There were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at January 31, 2010. 58 
 
