ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 6. Selected Financial Data, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. Overview Our Company NVIDIA Corporation invented the graphics processing unit, or GPU, in 1999. Since then, we have strived to set new standards in visual computing with interactive graphics available on devices ranging from tablets and smart phones to notebooks and workstations. Our expertise in programmable GPUs and computer systems technology has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and widely accessible. We are strategically investing in three major areas visual computing, high performance computing and mobile computing. We serve the visual computing market with our consumer GeForce graphics products and professional Quadro graphics products; the high performance computing market with our Tesla computing solutions products; and the mobile computing market with our Tegra system on chip products. We have three primary financial reporting segments GPU, Professional Solutions Business, or PSB and Consumer Products Business, or CPB. During fiscal years 2010 and 2009, we operated and reported four major product line operating segments: the GPU business, the PSB business, the media and communications processor, or MCP, business, and the CPB business. However, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we began reporting internally the results of our former MCP segment along with the results of our GPU segment to reflect the way we manage the GPU business. Comparative periods presented reflect this change. Our GPU business is comprised primarily of our GeForce discrete and chipset products which support desktop and notebook personal computers, or PCs, plus memory products. Our PSB is comprised of our Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high performance computing products. Our CPB is comprised of our Tegra mobile products which support tablets, smartphones, personal media players, or PMPs, internet television, automotive navigation, and other similar devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. Original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, original design manufacturers, or ODMs, add in card manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies worldwide utilize our processors as a core component of their entertainment, business and professional solutions. We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our headquarter facilities are in Santa Clara, California. Our web address is www.nvidia.com. The contents of our website are not a part of this Form 10 K. Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges GPU Business During fiscal year 2011, we took the computational capabilities of our GPUs to a new level with the launch of our Fermi architecture. Fermi GPUs are designed to excel at tessellation, the key feature of DirectX 11, and to allow game developers to increase the level of physics realism via our PhysX API. Our flagship product for the desktop, the GeForce GTX 480, was followed by a complete line up of 400 series GPUs. Later in the year, we refreshed them with our 500 series GPUs, which significantly increased the performance of the products they replaced while fitting into similar power envelopes. We also launched 400M and 500M series GPUs for notebooks, along with our Optimus technology, which switches invisibly between discrete GPU and integrated graphics controller depending on the users activities. By doing so, NVIDIA Optimus provides notebook users with the battery life of integrated graphics, but with the gaming performance of a discrete graphics processor. PC manufacturers also are expected to launch hundreds of new PCs that use these new GeForce GPUs paired with Intel Corporations Sandy Bridge CPUs. During fiscal year 2011, we also announced our plans to develop a custom central processing unit, or CPU, that will use the ARM instruction set. These CPU cores will be integrated into future generation GPUs for PCs, servers, and supercomputers. 34 Professional Solutions Business During fiscal year 2011, our Quadro business benefitted from the strength of our Fermi architecture with the launch of the Quadro 2000 midrange GPU and the Quadro 600 entry level GPU. These professional graphics solutions put the computational and visualization benefits of our Fermi architecture within reach of all engineers, designers and animators, with the Quadro 2000 delivering significantly higher performance across leading CAD applications and the Quadro 600 positioned at a competitive price/performance point. The new Quadro GPUs deliver performance that is up to five times faster for 3D applications and up to eight times faster for computational simulation than our previous Quadro generation products. Our Tesla supercomputing business continued to make progress with key project wins not only in our core market segments, but also with traction in a number of new focus areas. Consumer Products Business During fiscal year 2011, we saw promising signs in our Tegra business, helped by adoption to the Android operating system. Tegra shipment volumes began to ramp up late in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 and we expect the momentum to continue into the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, fueled by the production release of Android based smartphone and tablet products. During the fiscal year 2011, we had multiple Tegra 2 design wins in both tablets and smartphones. Our customers, including Acer Inc., Dell Inc., LG Electronics Inc. and Motorola Solutions, Inc., announced a number of products incorporating the Tegra 2 mobile processor. We also demonstrated our next generation mobile processor, the worlds first quad core mobile processor, at Mobile World Congress. During fiscal year 2011, we announced that Volkswagen AG and AUDI AG will use our next generation Tegra starting in 2012. In addition, we announced that BMW Group will use our GPUs for infotainment systems in next generation cars worldwide. Tesla Motors will also incorporate Tegra processors to power the infotainment, navigation and instrument cluster in its Roadster Model S. Patent Cross License Agreement On January 10, 2011, we entered into a new six year patent cross licensing agreement, or the License Agreement, with Intel. Under the License Agreement, Intel has granted to NVIDIA and its qualified subsidiaries, and NVIDIA has granted to Intel and Intels qualified subsidiaries, a non exclusive, non transferable, worldwide license, without the right to sublicense to all patents that are either owned or controlled by the parties at any time that have a first filing date on or before March 31, 2017, to make, have made (subject to certain limitations), use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise dispose of certain semiconductor and electronic related products anywhere in the world. NVIDIAs rights to Intels patents have certain specified limitations, including but not limited to, NVIDIA was not granted a license to: (1) certain microprocessors, defined in the License Agreement as Intel Processors or Intel Compatible Processors; (2) certain chipsets that connect to Intel Processors; or (3) certain flash memory products. In connection with the License Agreement, NVIDIA and Intel mutually agreed to settle all outstanding legal disputes. Under the License Agreement, Intel will pay NVIDIA an aggregate amount of $1.5 billion, payable in annual installments, as follows: a $300 million payment on each of January 18, 2011, January 13, 2012 and January 15, 2013 and a $200 million payment on each of January 15, 2014, 2015 and 2016. The License Agreement between NVIDIA and Intel includes multiple elements. As a result, we determined each element of the License Agreement, their fair value and when they should be recognized. The elements of the License Agreement are accounted for as follows: 1. Legal settlement: In connection with the License Agreement, both parties agreed to settle all outstanding legal disputes. The fair value allocated to the settlement of $57.0 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, as a benefit to operating expense. 2.. License to Intel: We will recognize $1,583.0 million in total, or $66.0 million per quarter, as revenue over the term of the agreement of six years, the period over which Intel will have access to newly filed NVIDIA patents. We will commence recognition of the license revenue in April 2011 when our performance obligation under the agreement begins. Consideration received in advance of the performance period will be classified as deferred revenue. 3. License from Intel: We recognized $140.0 million as an intangible asset upon execution of the agreement. Amortization of $5.0 million per quarter will be charged to cost of sales over the seven year estimated useful life of the technology beginning in April 2011. Please refer to Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this cross license and the settlement. 35 Product Defect Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including for customers costs to repair or replace the products in the field, which could cause our revenue to decline. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded an additional charge to cover the estimated remaining customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook configurations. The net charge amounted to $193.9 million, of which $181.2 million was charged against cost of revenue. The extra remediation costs are primarily due to additional platforms from late failing systems that we had not previously considered to be at risk. Included in the charge are the estimated costs of implementing a settlement reached during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 with the plaintiffs of a putative consumer class action lawsuit related to this same matter and the other estimated consumer class action settlement. As a result of this settlement, the other related estimated settlement, and offsetting insurance reimbursements, we recorded a net charge of $12.7 million to sales, general and administrative expense during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Together with the $282.0 million net charge we had previously recorded for related estimated costs, this brings the total cumulative net charge to $475.9 million, of which $466.4 million has been charged against cost of revenue and the remainder has been charged to sales, general and administrative expenses. The previous generation MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. Testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors for these failures. We have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. We have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the products in their notebook system designs. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. The weak die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are currently in production. In September, October and November 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this litigation and the settlement. Tender Offer During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a cash tender offer for certain employee stock options. The tender offer applied to outstanding stock options held by employees with an exercise price equal to or greater than $17.50 per share. None of the non employee members of our Board of Directors or our officers who file reports under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including our former Chief Financial Officer, Marvin D. Burkett, were eligible to participate in the Offer. All eligible options with exercise prices less than $28.00 per share, but not less than $17.50 per share, were eligible to receive a cash payment of $3.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. All eligible options with exercise prices greater than $28.00 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $2.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. 36 A total of 28.5 million options were tendered under the offer for an aggregate cash purchase price of $78.1 million, which was paid in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible options. As a result of the tender offer, we incurred a charge during fiscal year 2010 of $140.2 million consisting of $124.1 million related to the remaining unamortized stock based compensation expense associated with the unvested portion of the options tendered in the offer, $11.6 million related to stock based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the underlying options, plus $4.5 million related to associated payroll taxes, professional fees and other costs. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related disclosure of contingencies. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, goodwill, stock based compensation, warranty liabilities, litigation, investigation and settlement costs and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board. The Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Revenue Recognition Product Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the price is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. For most sales, we use a binding purchase order and in certain cases we use a contractual agreement as evidence of an arrangement. We consider delivery to occur upon shipment provided title and risk of loss have passed to the customer based on the shipping terms. At the point of sale, we assess whether the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable and whether collection is reasonably assured. If we determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the fee and recognize revenue at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of payment. Our policy on sales to certain distributors, with rights of return, is to defer recognition of revenue and related cost of revenue until the distributors resell the product, as the level of returns cannot be reasonably estimated. Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets. We accrue for 100% of the potential rebates and do not apply a breakage factor. We recognize a liability for these rebates at the later of the date at which we record the related revenue or the date at which we offer the rebate. Rebates typically expire six months from the date of the original sale, unless we reasonably believe that the customer intends to claim the rebate. Unclaimed rebates are reversed to revenue. Our customer programs also include marketing development funds, or MDFs. We account for MDFs as either a reduction of revenue or an operating expense, depending on the nature of the program. MDFs represent monies paid to retailers, system builders, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, distributors and add in card partners that are earmarked for market segment development and expansion and typically are designed to support our partners activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. Depending on market conditions, we may take actions to increase amounts offered under customer programs, possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time such programs are offered. We also record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a particular fiscal period exceed historical return rates we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns. 37 License and Development Revenue For license arrangements that require significant customization of our intellectual property components, we generally recognize this license revenue over the period that services are performed. For all license and service arrangements, we determine progress to completion based on actual direct labor hours incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total direct labor hours required to complete the project. We periodically evaluate the actual status of each project to ensure that the estimates to complete each contract remain accurate. A provision for estimated losses on contracts is made in the period in which the loss becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. Costs incurred in advance of revenue recognized are recorded as deferred costs on uncompleted contracts. If the amount billed exceeds the amount of revenue recognized, the excess amount is recorded as deferred revenue. Revenue recognized in any period is dependent on our progress toward completion of projects in progress. Significant management judgment and discretion are used to estimate total direct labor hours. Any changes in or deviations from these estimates could have a material effect on the amount of revenue we recognize in any period. Royalty revenue is recognized related to the distribution or sale of products that use our technologies under license agreements with third parties. We recognize royalty revenue upon receipt of a confirmation of earned royalties and when collectability is reasonably assured from the applicable licensee. Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Management determines this allowance, which consists of an amount identified for specific customer issues as well as an amount based on overall estimated exposure. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. Our overall estimated exposure excludes significant amounts that are covered by credit insurance and letters of credit. If the financial condition of our customers, the financial institutions providing letters of credit, or our credit insurance carrier were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen, such as the when the worldwide economy is experiencing a significant downturn. The financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and increased the risk that financial institutions mighty consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a lower than normal level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow on effects from this type of credit crisis on our business, including inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and or customer, insolvencies and failure of financial institutions, which could negatively impact our financial results. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain credit insurance in the future. As of January 30, 2011, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable was $0.8 million and our gross accounts receivable balance was $386.5 million. Of the $386.5 million, $86.0 million was covered by credit insurance and $4.4 million was covered by letters of credit. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required and we may have to record additional reserves or write offs on certain sales transactions in the future. Factors impacting the allowance include the level of gross receivables, the financial condition of our customers and the extent to which balances are covered by credit insurance or letters of credit. We have incurred cumulative bad debts of $0.5 million over the last three fiscal years. As a result of our low bad debt experience, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable has ranged between 0.2% and 0.3% during fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of January 30, 2011, our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable represented 0.2% of our gross accounts receivable balance. Inventories Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates actual cost on an average or first in, first out basis. Inventory costs consist primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory provisions and shipping costs. We write down our inventory to the lower of cost or estimated market value. Obsolete or unmarketable inventory is completely written off based upon assumptions about future demand, future product purchase commitments, estimated manufacturing yield levels and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if our future product purchase commitments to our suppliers exceed our forecasted future demand for such products, additional future inventory write downs may be required that could adversely affect our operating results. Inventory reserves once established are not reversed until the related inventory has been sold or scrapped. If actual market conditions are more favorable than expected and we sell products that we have previously written down, our reported gross margin would be favorably impacted. 38 As of January 30, 2011, our inventory reserve was $152.0 million. As a percentage of our gross inventory balance, our inventory reserve has ranged between 15.0% and 30.6% during fiscal years 2011 and 2010. As of January 30, 2011, our inventory reserve represented 30.6% of our gross inventory balance. Warranty Liabilities Cost of revenue includes the estimated cost of product warranties that are calculated at the point of revenue recognition. Under limited circumstances, we may offer an extended limited warranty to customers for certain products. Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. During fiscal year 2011, we recorded an additional charge to cover the estimated remaining customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook configurations. The net charge amounted to $193.9 million, of which $181.2 million was charged against cost of revenue. The extra remediation costs are primarily due to additional platforms from late failing systems that we had not previously considered to be at risk. Included in the charge are the estimated costs of implementing a settlement reached during fiscal year 2011 with the plaintiffs of a putative consumer class action lawsuit related to this same matter and another related estimated consumer class action settlement. As a result of this settlement, the other estimated settlement, and offsetting insurance reimbursements, we recorded a net charge of $12.7 million to sales, general and administrative expense during fiscal year 2011. Together with the $282.0 million net charge we had previously recorded for related estimated costs, this brings the total cumulative net charge to $475.9 million, of which $466.4 million has been charged against cost of revenue and the remainder has been charged to sales, general and administrative. Determining the amount of the warranty charges related to this issue required management to make estimates and judgments based on historical experience, test data and various other assumptions including estimated field failure rates that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these judgments formed the basis for our estimate of the total charge to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return and replacement and other associated costs. However, if actual repair, return, replacement and other associated costs and or actual field failure rates exceed our estimates, we may be required to record additional reserves, which would increase our cost of revenue and materially harm our financial results. Income Taxes We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized. United States income tax has not been provided on earnings of our non U.S. subsidiaries to the extent that such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. Our calculation of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the United States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential United States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements, accordingly. 39 As of January 30, 2011, we had a valuation allowance of $148.0 million related to state and certain foreign deferred tax assets that management determined are not likely to be realized due, in part, to projections of future taxable income and potential utilization limitations of tax attributes acquired as a result of stock ownership changes. To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more likely than not, we would recognize such deferred tax asset as an income tax benefit during the period the realization occurred. Our deferred tax assets do not include the excess tax benefit related to stock based compensation that are a component of our federal and state net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards in the amount of $565.2 million as of January 30, 2011. Consistent with prior years, the excess tax benefit reflected in our net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards will be accounted for as a credit to stockholders equity, if and when realized. In determining if and when excess tax benefits have been realized, we have elected to utilize the with and without approach with respect to such excess tax benefits. We have also elected to ignore the indirect tax effects of stock based compensation deductions for financial and accounting reporting purposes, and specifically to recognize the full effect of the research tax credit in income from continuing operations. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Please refer to Note 14 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for additional information. Goodwill Our impairment review process compares the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. We determined that our reporting units are equivalent to our operating segments, or components of an operating segment, for the purposes of completing our goodwill impairment test. We utilize a two step approach to testing goodwill for impairment. The first step tests for possible impairment by applying a fair value based test. In computing fair value of our reporting units, we use estimates of future revenues, costs and cash flows from such units. The second step, if necessary, measures the amount of such impairment by applying fair value based tests to individual assets and liabilities. Goodwill is subject to our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair value based approach. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, our market capitalization increased over 60% when compared to the same period in fiscal year 2010. We completed our most recent annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 and concluded that there was no impairment as the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying value. This assessment was based upon a discounted cash flow analysis, analysis of market comparables, where appropriate, and analysis of our market capitalization. Determining the number of reporting units and the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We also make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Our estimates of cash flows were based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operating performance, such as revenue growth rates, operating margins, risk adjusted discount rates, and future economic and market conditions. Our estimates of discounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to our business model or changes in operating performance. Additionally, certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses with limited financial history and developing revenue models, which increases the risk of differences between the projected and actual performance. The long term financial forecasts that we utilize represent the best estimate that we have at this time and we believe that its underlying assumptions are reasonable. Significant differences between our estimates and actual cash flows could materially affect our future financial results, which could impact our future estimates of the fair value of some or all of our reporting units. Determining the fair value of our reporting units also requires us to use judgment in the selection of appropriate market comparables, if there are any, and the amount of weight to ascribe to fair value measurements that are based on the market approach. Any significant reductions in the actual amount of cash flows realized by our reporting units, reductions in the value of market comparables, or reductions in our market capitalization could impact future estimates of the fair value of our reporting units. Such events could ultimately result in a charge to our earnings in future periods due to the potential for a write down of the goodwill associated with some or all of our reporting units. 40 Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Cash equivalents consist of financial instruments which are readily convertible into cash and have original maturities of three months or less at the time of acquisition. Marketable securities consist primarily of highly liquid investments with maturities of greater than three months when purchased. We generally classify our marketable securities at the date of acquisition as available for sale. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. Any unrealized losses which are considered to be other than temporary impairments are recorded in the other income (expense) section of our consolidated statements of operations. Realized gains (losses) on the sale of marketable securities are determined using the specific identification method and recorded in the other income (expense) section of our consolidated statements of operations. Please refer to Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K. We measure our cash equivalents and marketable securities at fair value. The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets. Our Level 1 assets consist of our money market funds. We classify securities within Level 1 assets when the fair value is obtained from real time quotes for transactions in active exchange markets involving identical assets. Our available for sale securities are classified as having Level 2 inputs. Our Level 2 assets are valued utilizing a market approach where the market prices of similar assets are provided by a variety of independent industry standard data providers to our investment custodian. Most of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are valued based on Level 2 inputs. As of January 30, 2011, we collected the balance of our investment in the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund, that was classified as a Level 3 input due to the inherent subjectivity and the significant judgment involved in its valuation. As such, we do not have any investment classified as Level 3 as of January 30, 2011. All of our available for sale investments are subject to a periodic impairment review. We record a charge to earnings when a decline in fair value is significantly below cost basis and judged to be other than temporary, or have other indicators of impairments. If the fair value of an available for sale debt instrument is less than its amortized cost basis, an other than temporary impairment is triggered in circumstances where (1) we intend to sell the instrument, (2) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the instrument before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or (3) a credit loss exists where we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the instrument. If we intend to sell or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the available for sale debt instrument before recovery of its amortized cost basis, we recognize an other than temporary impairment in earnings equal to the entire difference between the debt instruments amortized cost basis and its fair value. For available for sale debt instruments that are considered other than temporarily impaired due to the existence of a credit loss, if we do not intend to sell and it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the instrument before recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis (amortized cost basis less any current period credit loss), we separate the amount of the impairment into the amount that is credit related and the amount due to all other factors. The credit loss component is recognized in earnings. Stock based Compensation Our stock based compensation cost for equity awards is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the awards, and is recognized as expense over the requisite employee service period. We recognize stock based compensation expense using the straight line attribution method. We estimate the fair value of employee stock options on the date of grant using a binomial model and we use the closing trading price of our common stock on the date of grant as the fair value of awards of restricted stock units, or RSUs. The determination of fair value of share based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, vesting schedules, death and disability probabilities, expected volatility and risk free interest. Our management has determined that the use of implied volatility is expected to be more reflective of market conditions and, therefore, can reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of our expected volatility than historical volatility. The risk free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of our employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts. We began segregating options into groups for employees with relatively homogeneous exercise behavior in order to calculate the best estimate of fair value using the binomial valuation model. Using the binomial model, we estimated the fair value of the stock options granted under our stock option plans using the following assumptions during the fiscal year ended January 30, 2011: Weighted average expected life of stock options (in years) 3.1 6.7 Risk free interest rate 1.5% 3.3 % Volatility 42% 53 % Dividend yield Accounting standards also require forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on our historical experience. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of accounting standards in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under these accounting standards may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. Our stock based compensation expense for employee stock purchase plan is recognized using an accelerated amortization method. We used the Black Scholes model to estimate the fair value of shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan during the fiscal year ended January 30, 2011, using the following assumptions: Weighted average expected life of stock options (in years) 0.5 2.0 Risk free interest rate 0.2 0.8 % Volatility 45% 47 % Dividend yield Litigation, Investigation and Settlement Costs From time to time, we are involved in legal actions and or investigations by regulatory bodies. We are aggressively defending our current litigation matters for which we are responsible. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation or investigations, and we cannot be certain that these actions or other third party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation, fines and or substantial settlement payments. If that occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If information becomes available that causes us to determine that a loss in any of our pending litigation, investigations or settlements is probable, and we can reasonably estimate the loss associated with such events, we will record the loss in accordance with U.S.GAAP. However, the actual liability in any such litigation or investigations may be materially different from our estimates, which could require us to record additional costs. 41 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended January 30, 2011 January 31, 2010 January 25, 2009 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 60.2 64.6 65.7 Gross profit 39.8 35.4 34.3 Operating expenses: Research and development 24.0 27.3 25.0 Sales, general and administrative 10.2 11.0 10.6 Restructuring charges and other 0.8 Legal settlement (1.6 ) Total operating expenses 32.6 38.3 36.4 Income (loss) from operations 7.2 (2.9) (2.1 ) Interest and other income, net 0.4 0.5 0.8 Income (loss) before income taxes 7.6 (2.4) (1.3 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 0.5 (0.4) (0.4 ) Net income (loss) 7.1 % (2.0) % (0.9) % Fiscal Years Ended January 30, 2011, January 31, 2010 and January 25, 2009 Revenue Fiscal Year 2011 vs. Fiscal Year 2010 Revenue was $3.54 billion for the fiscal year 2011 and $3.33 billion for fiscal year 2010, an increase of 7%. For the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we expect revenue to grow by six to eight percent from the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business. GPU Business revenue decreased by 5% to $2.52 billion for fiscal year 2011 compared to $2.66 billion for fiscal year 2010. The decrease was primarily the result of a decline in sales of MCP products as we continued to phase out our chipset product line. Also sales of mainstream desktop GPU decreased as a result of lower unit shipments driven by weakness in our end customer markets related to unstable economic conditions and increased competition in the lower end market segments. Offsetting these declines were increases in sales of our notebook GPU, high end desktop GPU and memory products. The growth in sales of notebook GPU products was driven by a continuing shift in the market demand towards notebook PCs from desktop PCs as reported in the December 2010 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research. The growth in memory sales and high end desktop GPU products was driven primarily by the launch of our new generation of GPUs with Fermi architecture. PSB. PSB revenue increased by 60% to $818.6 million for the fiscal year 2011 as compared to $510.0 million for fiscal year 2010. Both the average selling price, or ASP, and unit shipments of professional workstation products increased due to the recovery of corporate spending following the economic recession that began during fiscal year 2009. In addition, we saw strong growth in our Tesla products from the prior year as our high performance computing line gained traction fueled by the Fermi architecture release. CPB. CPB revenue increased by 27% to $197.6 million for fiscal year 2011 as compared to $156.0 million for fiscal year 2010. This increase in CPB revenue was primarily driven by sales growth from ramp up in our Tegra 2 products, offset by decreases in embedded product revenues primarily related to the entertainment markets. Revenue from development arrangements and royalties from game console related products increased slightly in fiscal year 2011 when compared to fiscal year 2010. 42 Fiscal Year 2010 vs. Fiscal Year 2009 Revenue was $3.33 billion for the fiscal year 2010 and $3.42 billion for fiscal year 2009, a decrease of 3%. A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business. GPU Business revenue increased by 3% to $2.66 billion for fiscal year 2010 compared to $2.59 billion for fiscal year 2009. The increase was primarily driven by sales of our ION products. This was offset by a decrease in sales of our notebook GPUs, driven primarily by a combination of a decline in unit demand and a decline in ASP as a result of increased competition in the marketplace and due to share losses we experienced within the notebook segment, during calendar year 2009 compared to calendar year 2008 as reported in the November PC Graphics 2009 Report from Mercury Research. PSB. PSB revenue decreased by 26% to $510.2 million for the fiscal year 2010 as compared to $693.4 million for fiscal year 2009. Both the ASPs and unit shipments of professional workstation products decreased, primarily due to the relatively slow recovery of corporate spending following the economic recession that began during fiscal year 2009. CPB. CPB revenue increased by 15% to $156.0 million for fiscal year 2010 as compared to $136.3 million for fiscal year 2009. This increase in CPB revenue was primarily driven by sales growth from our embedded products for the automotive and entertainment markets, and was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from development arrangements and royalties from game console related products in the comparative periods. Concentration of Revenue We generated 83%, 84% and 87% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, from sales to customers outside the United States and other Americas. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the foreign contract equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, add in board and motherboard manufacturers revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location. Revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue for the respective dates, is summarized as follows: Year Ended January 30, 2011 January 31, 2010 January 25, 2009 Revenue: Customer A 12 % 12 % 7 % Customer B 8 % 9 % 8 % Customer C 6 % 7 % 11 % Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also includes development costs for license, service arrangements and stock based compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing. Gross margin is the percentage of gross profit to revenue. Our gross margin was 39.8%, 35.4% and 34.3% for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our gross margin is significantly impacted by the mix of products we sell and can vary in any period depending on that product mix. Our strategy for improving our gross margin relies upon delivering competitive product offerings that allow us to maintain our market leadership position and expand our addressable markets, lowering our product costs by introducing product architectures that take advantage of smaller process geometries and improving our product mix. We expect gross margin to be in the range of 48.5% to 49.5% during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. 43 A discussion of our gross margin results for each of our operating segments is as follows: Fiscal Year 2011 vs. Fiscal Year 2010 Our gross margin increased to 39.8% in fiscal year 2011 from 35.4% for fiscal year 2010. The improvement in gross margin was driven primarily due to increased unit sales, mix and better ASPs of our high end desktop GPU, notebook GPU and workstation products. Cost efficiencies and pricing decisions also helped margin improve in the current fiscal year. Additionally, fiscal year 2010 included $11.4 million charge related to the Companys tender offer to purchase certain stock options for personnel related to manufacturing which resulted in an adverse impact on gross margins that did not occur in fiscal year 2011. Offsetting these favorable impacts, we recorded a net charge to cost of revenue in the amount of $181.2 million in fiscal year 2011 compared to $95.9 million in fiscal year 2010 related to a weak die/packing material set that was used in certain versions of our previous generation chips. Our gross margin was favorably impacted by sales of products that were previously written down and sales of such items improved gross margin by approximately 1.9% and 1.6% in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Offsetting these releases are provisions for new inventory reserves. The net effect to gross margin from inventory reserves and sales of items previously written down was a 3.0% unfavorable impact in fiscal year 2011 and a 0.2% favorable impact in fiscal year 2010. GPU Business. The gross margin of our GPU Business remained comparable during fiscal year 2011 and fiscal year 2010. While higher inventory reserves due to future demand concerns in the first half of fiscal year 2011 and additional warranty accruals arising from a weak die/packaging material set reduced gross margin for fiscal year 2011 when compared to fiscal year 2010, this was more than offset by higher unit sales, mix and ASPs in the high end desktop and notebook product lines. PSB. The gross margin of our PSB remained flat during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010. Improvements in gross margin as a result of better ASPs and shipment volumes in our Quadro product line were offset by higher inventory reserves recorded in fiscal year 2011, when compared to fiscal year 2010. Tesla gross margin improved due to better production efficiencies was driven by lower product cost and higher unit sales, while ASPs remained stable. CPB. The gross margin of our CPB increased during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010. This increase was a result of better ASPs and higher unit shipment of our Tegra products as well as slightly better revenue from higher margin products and services, including development arrangements and royalties from game console related products, in the comparative periods. Fiscal Year 2010 vs. Fiscal Year 2009 Our gross margin increased to 35.4% in fiscal year 2010 from 34.3% for fiscal year 2009. The improvement in gross margin was driven primarily by improved yields of our 55nm products, transition to 40nm products, as well as other manufacturing cost reductions, and more favorable product mix, particularly with increased sales of higher margin MCP products. Furthermore, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 our gross margin benefited from the sell through of inventory that had previously been written down in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. This did not have a significant impact on our gross margin for the remaining quarters in fiscal year 2010. Offsetting these improvements, we recorded a charge to cost of revenue, net of insurance reimbursement in the amount of $95.9 million in fiscal year 2010 compared to $189.3 million in fiscal year 2009 related to weak die/packing material set that was used in certain versions of our previous generation chips. GPU Business. The gross margin of our GPU business increased during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. This increase was primarily driven by a shift in MCP product mix toward higher margin Intel based and AMD based platform products. We also recorded greater benefits to cost of revenue for insurance reimbursement received and a reduction in the warranty charge arising from a weak die/packing material set in certain versions of our previous generation products as compared to prior year. Additionally, improving yields of our 55nm products, a transition to 40nm products, and other manufacturing cost reductions achieved during fiscal year 2010 contributed to improvements in gross margin. Offsetting these improvements were lower ASPs in our mainstream desktop GPU products as well as in our notebook GPU products that we believe were driven by pricing pressures in the marketplace over the comparable period. PSB. The gross margin of our PSB decreased during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in ASPs caused primarily by pricing pressure resulting from the relatively slow recovery of corporate spending during fiscal year 2010 following the economic recession that began during fiscal year 2009. CPB. The gross margin of our CPB decreased during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. This decrease was a result of declining revenue from higher margin products and services, including development arrangements and royalties from game console related products, in the comparative periods. 44 Operating Expenses Year Ended Year Ended January 30, 2011 January 31, 2010 $ Change % Change January 31, 2010 January 25, 2009 $ Change % Change (In millions) (In millions) Research and development expenses $ 848.8 $ 908.9 $ (60.1) (7 % ) $ 908.9 $ 855.9 $ 53.0 6 % Sales, general and administrative expenses 361.5 367.0 (5.5) (1 %) 367.0 362.2 4.8 1 % Restructuring charges and other % 26.9 (26.9) (100 %) Legal settlement (57.0) (57.0) (100 % ) % Total operating expenses $ 1,153.3 $ 1,275.9 $ (122.6) (10 %) $ 1,275.9 $ 1,245.0 $ 30.9 2.5 % Research and development as a percentage of net revenue 24% 27 % 27 % 25 % Sales, general and administrative as a percentage of net revenue 10% 11 % 11 % 11 % Research and Development Fiscal Year 2011 vs. Fiscal Year 2010 Research and development expenses decreased by $60.1 million, or 7%. The majority of the decrease was caused by stock based compensation charges recorded during fiscal year 2010 of $90.5 million related to a tender offer that closed in March 2009. Depreciation and amortization decreased by $8.9 million due to assets being fully depreciated. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in compensation and benefits of $23.5 million primarily due to growth in headcount and an increase of $7.6 million for development expenses. Fiscal Year 2010 vs. Fiscal Year 2009 Research and development expenses increased by $53.0 million, or 6%. The majority of the increase was caused by stock based compensation charges recorded during fiscal year 2010 of $90.5 million related to a tender offer that closed in March 2009, offset by a reduction in ongoing stock based compensation expense of $36.7 million resulting from the cancellation of stock options pursuant to the tender offer. Compensation and benefits related to research and development increased by $11.9 million due to additional new hires and depreciation and amortization expense increased by $4.2 million due to property and equipment purchases. Additionally, our cost reduction initiatives across several discretionary spending areas resulted in decreased expenses related to computer software and equipment of $7.7 million, travel and entertainment of $5.4 million, employee related expenses of $3.5 million, and development expenses of $2.8 million. Sales, General and Administrative Fiscal Year 2011 vs. Fiscal Year 2010 Sales, general and administrative expenses decreased by $5.5 million, or 1%. The majority of the decrease was caused by stock based compensation charges recorded during fiscal year 2010 of $38.3 million related to a tender offer that closed in March 2009. Professional fees decreased by $10.6 million due to decreased legal service charges. Depreciation and amortization decreased by $4.2 million due to assets being fully depreciated. Offsetting these decreases was an increase in compensation and benefits of $28.1 million primarily attributable to growth in headcount. We had increases across discretionary spending areas such as $5.7 million for marketing, $3.2 million for contract labor, and $2.9 million for travel and entertainment to meet the increasing opportunities of our business as the economy recovers. Our expenses also increased by $15.0 million related to the settlement of the NVIDIA GPU Litigation case described in Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K. Fiscal Year 2010 vs. Fiscal Year 2009 Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by $4.8 million, or 1%. The majority of the increase was caused by stock based compensation charges recorded during fiscal year 2010 of $38.3 million related to a tender offer that closed in March 2009, offset by a reduction in ongoing stock based compensation expense of $19.1 million resulting from the cancellation of stock options pursuant to the tender offer. The increase was also driven by an increase in compensation and benefits by $8.4 million due to additional new hires and professional fees by $11.3 million due to legal service charges. Offsetting these increases, our cost reduction initiatives across several discretionary spending areas resulted in decreased expenses related to advertising and promotions of $9.3 million, employee related expenses of $8.0 million, contract labor of $6.6 million, computer software and equipment of $6.5 million, and marketing of $5.4 million. Restructuring Charges and Other During fiscal year 2009, we announced a workforce reduction to allow for continued investment in strategic growth areas. As a result, we eliminated approximately 360 positions worldwide, or about 6.5% of our global workforce. During fiscal year 2009, expenses associated with the workforce reduction, which were comprised primarily of severance and benefits payments to these employees, totaled $8.0 million. Restructuring and other expenses in fiscal year 2009 also included a non recurring charge of $18.9 million associated with the termination of a development contract related to a new campus construction project that has been put on hold. There were no restructuring related charges in fiscal years 2011 or 2010. 45 Legal Settlement On January 10, 2011, we entered into a new six year cross licensing agreement with Intel and also mutually agreed to settle all outstanding legal disputes. The fair valued benefit prescribed to the legal settlement portion was $57.0 million and was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. Interest Income and Interest Expense Interest income, net of interest expense consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income decreased to $15.9 million in fiscal year 2011, from $19.8 million in fiscal year 2010 primarily due to the result of lower interest rates on our investments. Interest income decreased to $19.8 million in fiscal year 2010 from $42.5 million in fiscal year 2009 primarily due to lower interest rates in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 and due to interest expense recorded on a capital lease in 2010. Other Income (Expense), net Other income and expense primarily consists of realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and foreign currency translation. Other (expense), net of other income was ($0.5) million, ($3.1) million, and $(14.7) million in fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The fluctuation between these years was primarily due to other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund that resulted in a charge of $5.6 million in fiscal year 2009, which was partially recovered in fiscal year 2011 for a gain of $3.0 million resulting from the final disbursement of this fund. Fiscal year 2009 also included other charges related to other than temporary impairment of $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that had filed for bankruptcy. Please refer to Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Income Taxes We recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $18.0 million, $(14.3) million, and $(12.9) million during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income tax expense (benefit) as a percentage of income (loss) before taxes, or our annual effective tax rate, was 6.7% in fiscal year 2011, 17.4% in fiscal year 2010, and 30.0% in fiscal year 2009. Our effective tax rate on income or loss before tax for the fiscal years was lower than the United States federal statutory rate of 35% due to income or loss earned in jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than the United States federal statutory tax rate of 35%, favorable recognition in these fiscal years of the U.S. federal research tax credit and the expiration of statues of limitations in certain non U.S. jurisdictions for which we had not previously recognized related tax benefits. Please refer to Note 14 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for additional information. Liquidity and Capital Resources January 30, 2011 January 31, 2010 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 665.4 $ 447.2 Marketable securities 1,825.2 1,281.0 Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 2,490.6 $ 1,728.2 Year Ended January 30, January 31, January 25, 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 675.8 $ 487.8 $ 249.4 Net cash used in investing activities $ (649.7 ) $ (519.3 ) $ (209.4 ) Net cash (used) provided by financing activities $ 192.0 $ 61.1 $ (349.3 ) 46 As of January 30, 2011, we had $2.49 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $762.4 million from the end of fiscal year 2010. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed by several financial institutions. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration. Operating activities Operating activities generated cash of $675.8 million, $487.8 million and $249.4 million during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal year 2011 when compared to fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to an increase in our net income and favorable changes in operating assets and liabilities compared to fiscal year 2010. For example, accounts receivable decreased due to improved sales linearity and stronger collections during the year, while accrued and other liabilities increased primarily due to an additional net charge for incremental repair and replacement costs from a weak die/packaging material set. Please refer to Note12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion. During fiscal year 2011, non cash charges to earnings included stock based compensation of $100.4 million and depreciation and amortization of $186.9 million. The cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2010 increased when compared to fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to changes in operating assets and liabilities, including increases in accounts payable resulting from the timing of payments to vendors and a decrease in inventory resulting from an increase in inventory turnover. Additionally, while we experienced a net loss in fiscal year 2010 of $68.0 million, versus a net loss of $30.0 million in fiscal year 2009, non cash charges to earnings included stock based compensation of $242.8 million and depreciation and amortization of $196.7 million. The cash provided by operating activities decreased in fiscal year 2009 due to a decrease in our net income compared to fiscal year 2008 plus the impact of non cash charges to earnings and deferred income taxes. During fiscal year 2009, non cash charges to earnings included stock based compensation of $162.7 million and depreciation and amortization of $185.0 million. Additionally, operating cash flows for fiscal year 2009 also declined due to changes in operating assets and liabilities, including the timing of payments to vendors and a decrease in inventory turnover. Additionally, we incurred $21.8 million in net cash outflows in fiscal year 2009 towards a confidential patent licensing agreement that we entered into in fiscal year 2007. Investing activities Investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and sales of marketable securities, acquisition of businesses and purchases of property and equipment, which include leasehold improvements for our facilities and intangible assets. Investing activities used cash of $649.7 million, $519.3 million and $209.4 million during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Investing activities for fiscal year 2011 used cash of $649.7 million towards the purchase of marketable securities, net of proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Additionally, we used $97.9 million towards capital expenditures in fiscal year 2011. Capital expenditures included purchase of new research and development equipment, testing equipment to support our increased production requirements, technology licenses, software, intangible assets and leasehold improvements at our facilities in various international locations. 47 Investing activities for fiscal year 2010 used cash of $441.5 million towards the purchase of marketable securities, net of proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Additionally, we used $77.6 million towards capital expenditures in fiscal year 2010. Capital expenditures included purchase of new research and development equipment, testing equipment to support our increased production requirements, technology licenses, software, intangible assets and leasehold improvements at our facilities in various international locations. Investing activities for fiscal year 2009 used cash of $27.9 million in connection with our acquisition of Ageia and $407.7 million towards capital expenditures, as we built additional facilities to accommodate our growing employee headcount, new research and development equipment, testing equipment to support our increased production requirements, technology licenses, software, intangible assets and leasehold improvements at our facilities in various international locations. Investing activities for capital expenditures in fiscal year 2009 also included payment of approximately $183.8 million for purchase of a property in Santa Clara, California, that includes approximately 25 acres of land and ten commercial buildings. Our original plans for the purchased property included constructing a new campus on the site. We are currently re evaluating those plans. This cash outflow is offset by $226.7 million of cash from the net proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Financing activities Financing activities provided cash of $192.0 million and $61.1 million during fiscal years 2011 and 2010 respectively, and used cash of $349.3 million during fiscal year 2009. Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to cash proceeds of $177.3 million from common stock issued under our employee stock plans, and a non cash tax benefit of $15.3 million for the gross windfall related to employee stock based compensation. Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to cash proceeds of $138.0 million from common stock issued under our employee stock plans, offset by $78.1 million used for the purchase of outstanding stock options related to a tender offer that closed in March 2009. Please refer to Note14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion regarding the cash tender offer. Net cash used by financing activities in fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to $423.6 million used in our stock repurchase program, offset by cash proceeds of $73.5 million from common stock issued under our employee stock plans. Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated by our operations. Our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents, asset backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage backed securities issued by government sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in United States dollars. As of January 30, 2011, we did not have any investments in auction rate preferred securities. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in our statement of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in market values are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. 48 As of January 30, 2011 and January 31, 2010, we had $2.49 billion and $1.73 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. As of January 30, 2011, we were in compliance with our investment policy. As of January 30, 2011, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 51% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 34% of our total investment portfolio. All of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities. We performed an impairment review of our investment portfolio as of January 30, 2011. Based on our quarterly impairment review, we concluded that our investments were appropriately valued and did not record any impairment during fiscal year 2011. During fiscal year 2009, we recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $9.9 million.. These charges included $5.6 million related to an other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund, $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities, and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that had filed for bankruptcy. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 we recovered $3.1 million of the other than temporary impairment charge previously recorded. This was recorded as other income in fiscal year 2011. Please refer to Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further details. Net realized gains, excluding any impairment charges, were $1.5 million, $1.8 million and $2.1 million for fiscal year 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively. As of January 30, 2011, we had a net unrealized gain of $10.5 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $11.0 million, offset by $0.5 million of gross unrealized losses. As of January 31, 2010, we had a net unrealized gain of $12.6 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $12.7 million, offset by $0.1 million of gross unrealized losses. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. Two customers accounted for approximately 17% of our accounts receivable balance at January 30, 2011. While we strive to limit our exposure to uncollectible accounts receivable using a combination of credit insurance and letters of credit, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. We continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write offs and or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. Patent Cross License Agreement On January 10, 2011, we entered into a new six year patent cross licensing agreement, or the License Agreement, with Intel. Under the License Agreement, Intel has granted to NVIDIA and its qualified subsidiaries, and NVIDIA has granted to Intel and Intels qualified subsidiaries, a non exclusive, non transferable, worldwide license, without the right to sublicense to all patents that are either owned or controlled by the parties at any time that have a first filing date on or before March 31, 2017, to make, have made (subject to certain limitations), use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise dispose of certain semiconductor and electronic related products anywhere in the world. NVIDIAs rights to Intels patents have certain specified limitations, including but not limited to, NVIDIA was not granted a license to: (1) certain microprocessors, defined in the License Agreement as Intel Processors or Intel Compatible Processors; (2) certain chipsets that connect to Intel Processors; or (3) certain flash memory products. In connection with the License Agreement, NVIDIA and Intel mutually agreed to settle all outstanding legal disputes. Under the License Agreement, Intel will pay NVIDIA an aggregate amount of $1.5 billion, payable in annual installments, as follows: a $300 million payment on each of January 18, 2011, January 13, 2012 and January 15, 2013 and a $200 million payment on each of January 15, 2014, 2015 and 2016. Please refer to Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this cross license and the settlement. 49 Cash Tender Offer During fiscal year 2010, our Board of Directors approved a cash tender offer for certain employee stock options. The tender offer commenced on February 11, 2009 and was completed during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. The tender offer applied to outstanding stock options held by employees with an exercise price equal to or greater than $17.50 per share. None of the non employee members of our Board of Directors or our officers who file reports under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 were eligible to participate in the tender offer. All eligible options with exercise prices equal to or greater than $17.50 per share but less than $28.00 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $3.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. All eligible options with exercise prices equal to or greater than $28.00 per share were eligible to receive a cash payment of $2.00 per option in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible option. A total of 28.5 million options were tendered under the offer for an aggregate cash purchase price of $78.1 million, which was paid in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible options. As a result of the tender offer, we incurred a charge of $140.2 million consisting of $124.1 million related to the remaining unamortized stock based compensation expense associated with the unvested portion of the options tendered in the offer, $11.6 million related to stock based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the underlying options, plus $4.5 million related to associated payroll taxes, professional fees and other costs. Please refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further discussion regarding the cash tender offer. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors has authorized us, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2013. The repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured stock repurchase programs, and may be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b 18 of the Securities Exchange Act, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we have entered into, and we may continue to enter into, structured share repurchase transactions with financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement. We did not enter into any structured share repurchase transactions or otherwise purchase any shares of our common stock during fiscal year ended January 30, 2011. Through January 30, 2011, we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion. As of January 30, 2011, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to $1.24 billion through May 2013. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements. We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating, acquisition and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, which could harm our business. Factors that could affect our cash used or generated from operations and, as a result, our need to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume production our next generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. We expect to spend approximately $150.0 million to $200.0 million for capital expenditures during fiscal year 2012, primarily for property development, leasehold improvements, software licenses, emulation equipment, computers and engineering workstations. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. 50 For additional factors see Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners Our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Product Defect Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including for customers costs to repair or replace the products in the field, which could cause our revenue to decline. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded an additional charge to cover the estimated remaining customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook configurations. The net charge amounted to $193.9 million, of which $181.2 million was charged against cost of revenue. The extra remediation costs are primarily due to additional platforms from late failing systems that we had not previously considered to be at risk. Included in the charge are the estimated costs of implementing a settlement reached during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 with the plaintiffs of a putative consumer class action lawsuit related to this same matter and the other estimated consumer class action settlement. As a result of this settlement, the other related estimated settlement, and offsetting insurance reimbursements, we recorded a net charge of $12.7 million to sales, general and administrative expense during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Together with the $282.0 million net charge we had previously recorded for related estimated costs, this brings the total cumulative net charge to $475.9 million, of which $466.4 million has been charged against cost of revenue and the remainder has been charged to sales, general and administrative. The previous generation MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. Testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors for these failures. We have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. We have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the products in their notebook system designs. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. The weak die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are currently in production. In September, October and November 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding this litigation and the settlement. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of January 30, 2011: Contractual Obligations Total Within 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years All Other (In thousands) Operating leases $ 177,166 $ 46,329 $ 50,969 $ 34,115 $ 45,753 $ Capital lease 40,126 4,654 9,714 9,849 15,909 Purchase obligations (1) 546,360 546,360 Uncertain tax positions, interest and penalties (2) 132,211 132,211 Capital purchase obligations 31,736 31,736 Total contractual obligations $ 927,599 $ 629,079 $ 60,683 $ 43,964 $ 61,662 $ 132,211 (1) Represents our inventory purchase commitments as of January 30, 2011. (2) Represents unrecognized tax benefits of $132.2 million which consists of $46.4 million recorded in non current income taxes payable and $74.6 million reflected as a reduction to the related deferred tax assets, and the related interest and penalties on the non current income tax payable of $11.2 million as of January 30, 2011. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of any potential tax liability or interest/penalty payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the underlying income tax positions and the timing of the effective settlement of such tax positions. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 30, 2011, we had no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S K 303(a)(4)(ii). Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for a discussion of adoption of new accounting pronouncements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10 K for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 51 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Investment and Interest Rate Risk As of January 30, 2011 and January 31, 2010, we had $2.49 billion and $1.73 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage backed securities issued by Government sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. As of January 30, 2011, we did not have any investments in auction rate preferred securities. Our investments are denominated in United States dollars. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available for sale. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other than temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available for sale, no gains or losses are realized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other than temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of January 30, 2011, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. According to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of approximately $11.7 million. The financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and increased the possibility that financial institutions might consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. Other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. Volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. As of January 30, 2011, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 51% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 34% of our total investment portfolio. Of the financial sector investments, over half are guaranteed by the U.S. government. Substantially all of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities. If the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2% 5%, the fair values of these investments would decline by approximately $37 $93 million. Exchange Rate Risk We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in Other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Financial Statements and to date have not been significant. The impact of foreign currency transaction loss included in determining net income (loss) for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $2.4 million, $0.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Currently, sales and arrangements with third party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, decreases in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. We may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. There were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at January 30, 2011. 52 
 
