FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20031022155112.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 5: OTHER EVENTS.
     On October 22, 2003, Symantec Corporation issued a press release announcing that its board of directors had declared a two-for-one stock split of Symantec's common stock, to be effected by issuing a stock dividend of one share of common stock for each share outstanding. The stock dividend will be distributed on November 19, 2003 to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 5, 2003. The press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 7: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
ITEM 12: RESULTS OF OPERATION AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On October 22, 2003, Symantec Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 2003. A copy of the press release is furnished (not filed) as exhibit 99.1. The information in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of, or otherwise regarded as filed under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Unless expressly incorporated into a filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, made after the date hereof, the information contained herein shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit  99.1
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC), the world leader in Internet security, today reported results for the fiscal second quarter 2004 ended Oct. 3, 2003. Symantec posted revenue for the quarter of $429 million, a 32 percent increase compared to $325 million for the same quarter last year, driven by strong enterprise security growth and higher than expected results in the consumer segment.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Oct. 22, 2003 
Net income for the fiscal second quarter was $83 million, compared to $52 million for the same quarter last year. Earnings per share was $0.49, compared to earnings per share of $0.33 for the year-ago quarter.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income for the fiscal second quarter was $91 million, compared to $60 million for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.53, compared to earnings per share of $0.38 for the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP results and related reconciliation, as outlined in the attached consolidated statements, exclude expenses from the amortization of other intangibles from acquisitions and acquired in-process research and development as well as related income tax benefits. See "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" below.
Non-GAAP Results:
"It was a stellar quarter across the board with strong performances in all regions," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and CEO. "Our integrated approach for enterprises and consumers continues to gain momentum and set the bar for the rest of the industry."
Revenue Components
For the quarter, Symantec's worldwide enterprise business, including enterprise security, enterprise administration, and services, represented 55 percent of total revenue. Symantec's enterprise security business represented 41 percent of total revenue and grew 25 percent year-over-year; the enterprise administration business represented 12 percent of revenues and declined 8 percent in line with expectations; and the services business grew 53 percent and represented 2 percent of total revenue. Symantec's consumer business grew 56 percent and represented 45 percent of total revenue.
 
Symantec Reports Record Revenue and Earnings, Raises Fiscal Year Guidance Page 2 of 8
International revenues represented 50 percent of total revenue in the second quarter and grew 39 percent over the same quarter last year. Canada led the increase for the quarter with 49 percent growth, followed by the Europe, Middle East and Africa region with 46 percent growth. Japan recorded 27 percent year-over-year growth, Asia Pacific recorded 24 percent growth and Latin America had 9 percent growth. The United States grew at 26 percent.
Business Outlook
Forward-looking guidance for the fiscal third quarter ending Jan. 2, 2004, is as follows:
Forward-looking guidance for the fiscal year, ending April 2, 2004, updated to reflect the fiscal year-to-date actual performance and estimated results for the fiscal third and fourth quarters is as follows:
Non-GAAP earnings per share excludes the pre-tax amortization of other intangibles from acquisitions, acquired in-process research and development, and other items such as patent settlement and restructuring charges of approximately $11 million and $58 million for the quarter ending Jan. 2, 2004, and the fiscal year ending April 2, 2004, respectively.
Quarterly Highlights
 
Symantec Reports Record Revenue and Earnings, Raises Fiscal Year Guidance Page 3 of 8
Conference Call
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. EDT/2 p.m. PDT today to discuss fiscal second quarter 2004 results, and to review guidance for the fiscal third quarter. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html. To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay and the script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations home page shortly after the call is completed.
 
Symantec Reports Record Revenue and Earnings, Raises Fiscal Year Guidance Page 4 of 8
About Symantec
Symantec, the world leader in Internet security technology, provides a broad range of content and network security software and appliance solutions to individuals, enterprises and service providers. The company is a leading provider of client, gateway and server security solutions for virus protection, firewall and virtual private network, vulnerability management, intrusion detection, Internet content and e-mail filtering, remote management technologies and security services to enterprises and service providers around the world. Symantec's Norton brand of consumer security products is a leader in worldwide retail sales and industry awards. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has worldwide operations in 36 countries. For more information, please visit www.symantec.com.
: If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please view the Symantec Press Center at http://www.symantec.com/PressCenter/ on Symantec's Web site. All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS
Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks, in the United States and certain other countries, of Symantec Corporation. Additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the individual companies and are respectfully acknowledged.
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of future revenue and earnings per share, expected activities, and other financial and business results that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied by this press release. Such risk factors include, among others: the sustainability of recent growth rates, particularly in consumer products; the anticipation of the growth of certain market segments, particularly enterprise security; the positioning of Symantec's products in those segments; the competitive environment in the software industry; general market conditions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; and whether Symantec can successfully develop new products and the degree to which these gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors sections of Symantec's previously filed Form 10-K and 10-Q. Symantec assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release except as otherwise required by law.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT:
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, Symantec reports non-GAAP financial results. Non-GAAP net income and earnings per share exclude acquisition related charges, such as amortization of other intangibles and in-process research and development, and certain other identified charges, such as restructuring and patent settlement, as well as the tax effect of these items. Symantec's management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they provide supplemental information that facilitates comparisons to prior periods. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its financial results, develop budgets and manage expenditures. The method Symantec uses to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP, is likely to differ from the methods used by other companies and should not be regarded as a replacement for corresponding GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to this release and can be found on the investor relations Web site at www.symantec.com/invest/center.html.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
 
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations
*     For the three and six months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $3.6M and $7.2M for the three and six months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes.
 
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income
Non-GAAP amounts exclude all acquisition related amortization, in-process research and development restructuring charges, and patent settlement.
*     For the three and six months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $3.6M and $7.2M for the three and six months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes.
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income to the GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income
 
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets

 
Exhibit  99.2
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC), the world leader in Internet security, today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a two-for-one stock split, to be effected in the form of a stock dividend. The company will discuss the split in more detail during today's scheduled conference call to report fiscal second quarter 2004 earnings results.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Oct. 22, 2003 
Shareowners of record at the close of business on Nov. 5, 2003 will be issued one additional share of common stock for each share owned as of that date. The company anticipates that the additional shares resulting from the split will be issued in book-entry form on or about Nov. 19, 2003. Shareowners will be entitled to receive physical stock certificates upon request. The stock split will increase the number of total shares outstanding from approximately 154 million shares to approximately 308 million shares.
Conference Call
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. EDT/2 p.m. PDT today to discuss its fiscal second quarter 2004 earnings as well as the stock split. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html. To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay and the script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations home page shortly after the call is completed.
About Symantec
Symantec, the world leader in Internet security technology, provides a broad range of content and network security software and appliance solutions to individuals, enterprises and service providers. The company is a leading provider of client, gateway and server security solutions for virus protection, firewall and virtual private network, vulnerability management, intrusion detection, Internet content and e-mail filtering, remote management technologies and security services to enterprises and service providers around the world. Symantec's Norton brand of consumer security products is a leader in worldwide retail sales and industry awards. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has worldwide operations in 36 countries. For more information, please visit www.symantec.com.
 
Symantec Announces Two-For-One Stock Split Page 2 of 2
: If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please view the Symantec Press Center at http://www.symantec.com/PressCenter/ on Symantec's Web site. All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS
Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks, in the United States and certain other countries, of Symantec Corporation. Additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the individual companies and are respectfully acknowledged.


