FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20030723160555.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c)  Exhibits.
     The following exhibit is filed herewith:
ITEM 9: REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     This information, furnished under this "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure," is intended to be furnished under "Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in accordance with SEC Release No.33-8216.
     On July 23, 2003, Symantec Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended July 4, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as exhibit 99.1. The information in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of, or otherwise regarded as filed under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Unless expressly incorporated into a filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, made after the date hereof, the information contained herein shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
99.1      Press release issued by Symantec Corporation dated July 23, 2003.

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC), the world leader in Internet security, today reported results for the fiscal first quarter 2004 ended July 4, 2003. Symantec posted revenue for the quarter of $391 million, a 24 percent increase compared to $316 million for the same quarter last year.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  July 23, 2003 
Net income for the fiscal first quarter was $68 million, compared to $57 million for the same quarter last year. Earnings per share was $0.41, compared to earnings per share of $0.36 for the year-ago quarter.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income for the fiscal first quarter was $75 million, compared to $66 million for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.45, compared to earnings per share of $0.41 for the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP results, as outlined in the attached consolidated statements, exclude expenses from the amortization of other intangibles from acquisitions and restructuring and site closures as well as related income tax benefits. See "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" below.
Non-GAAP Results:
"We continue to see strong performance across all segments of our business around the world, despite the difficult economic environment," said John W. Thompson, Symantec Chairman and CEO. "We believe our investments in the broadest range of security technologies and services delivered to the most diverse set of customers in our segment will continue to fuel the future growth of our company."
Revenue Components
For the quarter, Symantec's worldwide enterprise security business represented 42 percent of total revenue and grew 25 percent compared to the same quarter last year. Symantec's consumer business grew 35 percent and represented 43 percent of total revenue. Symantec's enterprise administration business declined 11 percent in line with expectations and represented 13 percent of total revenue while the services business grew 160 percent and represented 2 percent of total revenue.
International revenues represented 51 percent of total revenue in the first quarter and grew 33 percent over the same quarter last year. The Europe, Middle East and Africa region led the increase for the quarter with 55 percent growth, followed by Latin America with 25 percent growth. Japan recorded 12 percent year-over-year growth with Asia Pacific at 8 percent growth. The United States grew at 16 percent.
 
Symantec Announces Strong First Quarter Financial Results Page 2 of 8
Business Outlook
Management offers the following forward-looking guidance for the fiscal second quarter 2004 ending Oct. 3, 2003:
Management offers the following forward-looking guidance for fiscal year 2004, ending April 2, 2004, updated to reflect the actual results from the fiscal first quarter and estimated results for the fiscal second quarter:
Non-GAAP earnings per share excludes the pre-tax amortization of intangibles and restructuring charges from acquisitions of approximately $6 million and $25 million for the quarter ending Oct. 3, 2003 and the fiscal year ending April 2, 2004, respectively.
Quarterly Highlights
 
Symantec Announces Strong First Quarter Financial Results Page 3 of 8
Conference Call
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. EDT/2 p.m. PDT today to discuss fiscal first quarter 2004 results, and to review guidance for the fiscal second quarter. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay and the script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations home page shortly after the call is completed.
http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html
About Symantec
Symantec, the world leader in Internet security technology, provides a broad range of content and network security software and appliance solutions to individuals, enterprises and service providers. The company is a leading provider of client, gateway and server security solutions for virus protection, firewall and virtual private network, vulnerability management, intrusion detection, Internet content and e-mail filtering, remote management technologies and security services to enterprises and service providers around the world. Symantec's Norton brand of consumer security products is a leader in worldwide retail sales and industry awards. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has worldwide operations in 36 countries. For more information, please visit .
www.symantec.com
 
Symantec Announces Strong First Quarter Financial Results Page 4 of 8
: If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please view the Symantec Press Center at http://www.symantec.com/PressCenter/ on Symantec's Web site. All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS
Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks, in the United States and certain other countries, of Symantec Corporation. Additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the individual companies and are respectfully acknowledged.
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of future revenue and earnings per share, expected activities, and other financial and business results that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied by this press release. Such risk factors include, among others: the sustainability of recent growth rates, particularly in consumer products; the anticipation of the growth of certain market segments, particularly enterprise security; the positioning of Symantec's products in those segments; the competitive environment in the software industry; general market conditions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; and whether Symantec can successfully develop new products and the degree to which these gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors sections of Symantec's previously filed Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 28, 2003. Symantec assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release except as otherwise required by law.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT:
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, Symantec reports non-GAAP financial results. Non-GAAP net income and earnings per share exclude acquisition related charges, such as amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, and certain other charges, such as restructurings and site closures, as well as the tax effect of these items. Symantec's management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they provide supplemental information that facilitates comparisons to prior periods. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its financial results, develop budgets and manage expenditures. The method Symantec uses to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP, is likely to differ from the methods used by other companies and should not be regarded as a replacement for corresponding GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to this release and can be found on the investor relations Web site at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest/center.html
 
Symantec Announces Strong First Quarter Financial Results Page 5 of 8
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income
* For the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $3.6M for each of the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes.
 
Symantec Announces Strong First Quarter Financial Results Page 6 of 8
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income
Non-GAAP amounts exclude all acquisition related amortization and restructuring charges.
* For the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $3.6M for each of the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes.
 
Symantec Announces Strong First Quarter Financial Results Page 7 of 8
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income to the GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income
 
Symantec Announces Strong First Quarter Financial Results Page 8 of 8
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets


