FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20040428161248.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
ITEM 12: REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     On April 28, 2004, Symantec Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as exhibit 99.1. The information in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of, or otherwise regarded as filed under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Unless expressly incorporated into a filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, made after the date hereof, the information contained herein shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC), the global leader in information security, today reported results for the fiscal fourth quarter and the fiscal year ended April 2, 2004. Symantec posted revenue for the quarter of $556 million, a 43 percent increase compared to $390 million for the same quarter last year. Revenue for fiscal year 2004 was $1.870 billion, a 33 percent increase compared to $1.407 billion for fiscal year 2003.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  April 28, 2004 
Net income for the fiscal fourth quarter was $117 million, compared to $68 million for the same quarter last year. Earnings per share was $0.33, compared to earnings per share of $0.21 for the same quarter last year. For fiscal year 2004, Symantec reported net income of $371 million, compared to net income of $248 million for fiscal year 2003. Earnings per share was $1.07, compared to earnings per share of $0.77 for fiscal year 2003.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income for fiscal fourth quarter was $126 million, compared to $78 million for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.35, compared to earnings per share of $0.23 for the year-ago quarter. For fiscal year 2004, Symantec reported non-GAAP net income of $411 million, compared to $280 million in fiscal year 2003. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $1.18, compared to earnings per share of $0.86 for fiscal year 2003. Non-GAAP results and related reconciliation, as outlined in the attached consolidated statements, exclude expenses from the amortization of other intangibles from acquisitions, acquired in-process research and development, restructuring charges, and patent settlement charges as well as related income tax benefits. See "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" below.
Non-GAAP Results:
"We continue to execute on our vision of helping customers secure and manage their IT infrastructure, with last quarter's performance capping off a tremendously successful year," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and CEO. "We are encouraged by the building momentum in the enterprise segment and, once again, the consumer segment turned in a stellar performance."
 
Symantec Closes Fiscal Year with Record Revenue and Earnings Growth Page 2 of 8
Revenue Components
For the quarter, Symantec's worldwide enterprise business, including enterprise security, enterprise administration, and services represented 52 percent of total revenue and grew 29 percent year-over-year. Symantec's enterprise security business represented 38 percent of total revenue and grew 30 percent; the enterprise administration business represented 12 percent of total revenue and grew 26 percent; and the services represented 2 percent of total revenue and grew 32 percent compared to the same quarter last year. Symantec's consumer business represented 48 percent of total revenue and grew 62 percent year-over-year.
International revenues represented 53 percent of total revenue in the fourth quarter and grew 48 percent over the same quarter last year. Japan led the increase for the quarter with 66 percent growth, followed by Canada with 50 percent growth. The Europe, Middle East and Africa region recorded 48 percent growth, Asia Pacific recorded 36 percent growth and Latin America grew 12 percent. The United States grew 37 percent.
Business Outlook
Symantec is raising forward-looking guidance for the fiscal first quarter ending July 2, 2004, as follows:
Symantec is raising forward-looking guidance for fiscal year 2005 ending April 1, 2005, as follows:
 
Symantec Closes Fiscal Year with Record Revenue and Earnings Growth Page 3 of 8
Non-GAAP forward-looking guidance for fiscal year 2005 excludes the pre-tax amortization of other intangibles from previous acquisitions of approximately $13 million per quarter, or $52 million for the entire fiscal year.
Quarterly Highlights
 
Symantec Closes Fiscal Year with Record Revenue and Earnings Growth Page 4 of 8
About Symantec
Symantec is the global leader in information security providing a broad range of software, appliances and services designed to help individuals, small and mid-sized businesses, and large enterprises secure and manage their IT infrastructure. Symantec's Norton brand of products is the worldwide leader in consumer security and problem-solving solutions. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in more than 35 countries. More information is available at http://www.symantec.com.
: If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please view the Symantec Press Center at http://www.symantec.com/PressCenter/ on Symantec's Web site. All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS
Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks, in the United States and certain other countries, of Symantec Corporation. Additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the individual companies and are respectfully acknowledged.
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of future revenue, gross margin, operating profit, earnings per share and common stock equivalents, expected activities, and other financial and business results that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied by this press release. Such risk factors include, among others: the sustainability of recent growth rates, particularly in consumer products; whether certain market segments, particularly enterprise security, grow as anticipated; the positioning of Symantec's products in those segments; the competitive environment in the software industry; ability to integrate acquired companies and technology; general market conditions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; and whether Symantec can successfully develop new products and the degree to which these gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors sections of Symantec's previously filed Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT:
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, Symantec reports non-GAAP financial results. Non-GAAP gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income and earnings per share exclude acquisition related charges, such as amortization of other intangibles and in-process research and development, and certain other identified charges, such as restructuring and patent settlement, as well as the tax effect of these items, where applicable. Symantec's management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they provide supplemental information that facilitates comparisons to prior periods. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its financial results, develop budgets and manage expenditures. The method Symantec uses to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP, is likely to differ from the methods used by other companies and should not be regarded as a replacement for corresponding GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to this release and can be found on the investor relations Web site at www.symantec.com/invest/center.html.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
 
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income
*     For the three and twelve months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $3.6M and $14.4M for the three and twelve months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes.
 
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income
Non-GAAP amounts exclude all acquisition related amortization of intangibles, acquired IPR&D, patent settlement and restructuring charges.
*     For the three and twelve months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $3.6M and $14.4M for the three and twelve months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes.
 
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Consolidated Statements of Income to the GAAP Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Consolidated Statements of Income
 
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets


