FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20040809161901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     The following exhibit is filed herewith:
ITEM 12: REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     On August 9, 2004, Symantec Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing the discovery and correction of an error in non-U.S. consumer revenue. A copy of the press release is attached as exhibit 99.1. The information in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of, or otherwise regarded as filed under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Unless expressly incorporated into a filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, made after the date hereof, the information contained herein shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

News Release Exhibit 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MEDIA CONTACT: INVESTOR CONTACT: Genevieve Haldeman David Gennarelli Symantec Corporation Symantec Corporation 408-517-7642 408-517-8324 glhaldeman@symantec.com David_gennarelli@symantec.com SYMANTEC DISCOVERS AND CORRECTS ERROR IN NON-U.S. CONSUMER REVENUE WILL FILE FIRST QUARTER FORM 10-Q ON AUGUST 10 CUPERTINO, CALIF. - AUG. 9, 2004 - Symantec (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced that it discovered an error in its calculation of deferred revenue, which represents an accumulated adjustment of $20 million. The company is revising the financial results for the quarter ended July 2, 2004 that were announced on its earnings call on July 21, 2004 to reflect this correction. The revised results will be reflected in the company's Form 10-Q scheduled to be filed on August 10. A deferred revenue understatement was discovered during a review of the company's revenue maintenance application that calculates deferred revenue for Symantec's consumer products. A manual error was made in entering the unit renewal prices applicable to consumer product licenses sold in foreign currencies. As a result, the deferred revenue from these consumer product licenses was understated and the portion of revenue from these licenses that was recognized at the time of sale was overstated. The error does not affect cash collections; it simply changes the timing for the recognition of the revenue for consumer product licenses sold in foreign currencies. Symantec has implemented new control procedures to avoid the recurrence of this type of error in the future. Although the revisions to revenue and earnings are an accumulation of the effect of the error over multiple quarters, the effect of the error was not material to any relevant prior periods. To correct this error, the income statement will reflect a $20 million reduction in revenue during the three-month period ended July 2, 2004 with a corresponding $20 million increase in deferred revenue in the balance sheet as of July 2, 2004. Revenue for the quarter ended July 2, 2004 is revised to $557 million, 42 percent growth compared to the same period last year. GAAP earnings per share are revised to $0.33, $0.04 lower than previously announced, non-GAAP earnings per share are revised to $0.36, $0.03 lower than previously announced. Non-GAAP results and related reconciliation, as outlined in the attached consolidated statements, excludes the expenses from the amortization of other intangibles from acquisitions, acquired in-process research and development, restructuring charges, and patent settlement charges as well as related income tax benefits. (More)
SYMANTEC REVISES FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS Page 2 of 7 This error will not impact the company's previously stated full-year guidance. Because the revision increases deferred revenue in the quarter ended July 2, 2004, guidance for the company's fiscal second quarter, ending October 1, 2004, will be updated as follows: o Revenue is estimated at $588 million, an increase of $8 million from prior guidance. o At this revenue guidance, GAAP earnings per share is estimated to be $0.35, an increase of $0.01 from previous guidance. o At this revenue guidance, non-GAAP earnings per share is estimated to be $0.38, an increase of $0.01 from previous guidance. Non-GAAP earnings per share excludes the pre-tax amortization of other intangibles from acquisitions, acquired in-process research and development and restructuring charges of approximately $14 million for the quarter ending October 1, 2004. CONFERENCE CALL Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. EDT/2 p.m. PDT today to discuss the revised fiscal first quarter 2005 results, and to review guidance for the fiscal second quarter and fiscal year. Interested parties may access a live webcast of the call on the Internet at www.symantec.com/invest/index.html. To listen to the webcast, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay and the script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations home page shortly after the call is completed. Institutional investors and research analysts can access the live conference by calling 800-500-0311 (U.S. and Canada) or 719-457-2698 (International). The call's ID number is: 710156. Please dial in at least 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. ABOUT SYMANTEC Symantec is the global leader in information security providing a broad range of software, appliances and services designed to help individuals, small and mid-sized businesses, and large enterprises secure and manage their IT infrastructure. Symantec's Norton brand of products is the worldwide leader in consumer security and problem-solving solutions. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in more than 35 countries. More information is available at http://www.symantec.com. ### NOTE TO EDITORS: If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please view the Symantec Press Center at http://www.symantec.com/PressCenter/ on Symantec's Web site. All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States. Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered trademarks, in the United States and certain other countries, of Symantec Corporation. Additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the individual companies and are respectfully acknowledged. (More)
SYMANTEC REVISES FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS Page 3 of 7 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT: This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of future revenue and earnings per share, expected industry patterns, and other financial and business results that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied by this press release. Such risk factors include, among others: the sustainability of recent growth rates, particularly in consumer products; the anticipation of the growth of certain market segments, particularly enterprise security; the positioning of Symantec's products in those segments; the competitive environment in the software industry; general market conditions; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; and whether Symantec can successfully develop new products and integrate acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors sections of Symantec's recently filed Form 10-K. Symantec assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release. USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION: In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, Symantec reports non-GAAP financial results. Non-GAAP net income and earnings per share exclude acquisition related charges, such as amortization of other intangibles and in-process research and development, and certain other identified charges, such as restructuring and patent settlement, as well as the tax effect of these items. Symantec's management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they provide supplemental information that facilitates comparisons to prior periods. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its financial results, develop budgets and manage expenditures. The method Symantec uses to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP, is likely to differ from the methods used by other companies and should not be regarded as a replacement for corresponding GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to this release and can also be found on the investor relations Web site at www.symantec.com/invest/center.html. (More)
SYMANTEC DISCOVERS AND CORRECTS ERROR IN NON-U.S. CONSUMER REVENUE Page 4 of 7 SYMANTEC CORPORATION GAAP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME * For the three months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $3.6M for each of the three months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes. (More)
SYMANTEC DISCOVERS AND CORRECTS ERROR IN NON-U.S. CONSUMER REVENUE Page 5 of 7 SYMANTEC CORPORATION NON-GAAP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME NON-GAAP AMOUNTS EXCLUDE ALL ACQUISITION RELATED AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES, ACQUIRED IPR&D, PATENT SETTLEMENT AND RESTRUCTURING CHARGES. * For the three months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $3.6M for each of the three months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes. (More)
SYMANTEC DISCOVERS AND CORRECTS ERROR IN NON-U.S. CONSUMER REVENUE Page 6 of 7 SYMANTEC CORPORATION RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP GROSS PROFIT, OPERATING EXPENSES AND CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME TO THE GAAP GROSS PROFIT, OPERATING EXPENSES AND CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (More)
SYMANTEC DISCOVERS AND CORRECTS ERROR IN NON-U.S. CONSUMER REVENUE Page 7 of 7 SYMANTEC CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS # # #


