FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20050728161108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02: RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On July 28, 2005, Symantec Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing results for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information in this report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of, or otherwise regarded as filed under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Unless expressly incorporated into a filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, made after the date hereof, the information contained herein shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
ITEM 9.01: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today reported results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, ended July 1, 2005. Symantec posted revenue for the quarter of $700 million, a 26 percent increase compared to $557 million for the same quarter last year.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  July 28, 2005 
GAAP net income for the fiscal first quarter was $199 million, compared to $117 million for the same quarter last year. Earnings per share was $0.27, compared to earnings per share of $0.16 for the year-ago quarter.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income for fiscal first quarter was $199 million, compared to $128 million for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.27, 50 percent higher than the June 2004 quarter's non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.18. Non-GAAP results, as outlined in the attached consolidated statements, exclude acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and amortization of deferred stock-based compensation, acquired IPR&D, restructuring charges, integration planning charges related to the merger with VERITAS, and the related income tax benefits, and a reduction of taxes provided on earnings repatriated under the American Jobs Creation Act. See "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information" below.
Non-GAAP Results:
"Symantec's success in the quarter was paralleled by equally strong performance by VERITAS," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and chief executive officer. "Our results demonstrate the team's success in balancing merger-related activities with a continued focus on execution."
Revenue Components
For the quarter, Symantec's worldwide enterprise business, including enterprise security, enterprise administration, and services, represented 49 percent of total revenue and grew 23 percent year-over-year. Symantec's enterprise security business represented 38 percent of total revenue and grew 26 percent; the enterprise administration business represented 10 percent of total revenue and grew 10 percent; and the services business represented 1 percent of total revenue and grew 85 percent. Symantec's consumer business represented 51 percent of total revenue and grew 28 percent.
 
 
Symantec Reports First Quarter Fiscal Year 2006 Results
International revenues represented 51 percent of total revenue in the first quarter and grew 27 percent over the same quarter last year. The Americas, including the United States, Latin America, and Canada, represented 55 percent of total revenue and grew 25 percent. The Europe, Middle East, and Africa region represented 31 percent of total revenue and grew 28 percent. Asia Pacific/Japan represented 14 percent of total revenue and grew 22 percent.
VERITAS Results
Revenue for VERITAS as a standalone company was $529 million for the June quarter, up 9 percent year-over-year. Non-GAAP operating expenses and cost-of-sales were $407 million or 77 percent of revenue. Non-GAAP operating expenses and cost-of-sales exclude acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and amortization of deferred stock-based compensation, merger-related expenses, and related income tax benefits. The financial results of Symantec reported in this release do not include the operating results of VERITAS, since Symantec's merger with VERITAS was completed on July 2, 2005, after the close of Symantec's June quarter.
Business Outlook
The methodology for presenting combined historical financial information, as well as guidance for fiscal year 2006, will be reviewed in the conference call schedule for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today. See "Conference Call" below.
Quarterly Highlights
 
 
Symantec Reports First Quarter Fiscal Year 2006 Results
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the results of the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, ended July 1, 2005, and to review guidance for the fiscal year 2006. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
Conference Call
http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html
About Symantec
Symantec is the world leader in providing solutions to help individuals and enterprises assure the security, availability, and integrity of their information. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in more than 40 countries. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please view the Symantec Press Center at http://www.symantec.com/PressCenter/ on Symantec's Web site. All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
Symantec, the Symantec logo, VERITAS, and the VERITAS logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. Additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the individual companies and are respectfully acknowledged.
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied by this press release. Such risk factors include, among others: whether Symantec and VERITAS can successfully integrate their businesses, maintain customer and partner relationships and leverage synergies; the sustainability of recent growth rates, particularly in consumer products; the anticipation of the growth of certain market segments, particularly enterprise security and international; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; general market conditions; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; whether Symantec can successfully develop new products and integrate acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors sections of Symantec's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2005 and in the Form S-4 Registration Statement filed in connection with the merger of Symantec and VERITAS . Symantec assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS:
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, Symantec reports non-GAAP financial results. Non-GAAP net income and earnings per share exclude amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, amortization of deferred stock-based compensation, in-process research and development, and certain other identified charges, such as restructuring, patent settlement, and integration planning expenses associated with the VERITAS merger, as well as the tax effect of these items, and the one-time tax effect associated with the company's cash repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act. Symantec's management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they provide supplemental information that facilitates comparisons to prior periods. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its financial results, develop budgets and manage expenditures. The method Symantec uses to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP, is likely to differ from the methods used by other companies and should not be regarded as a replacement for corresponding GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to this release and can also be found on the investor relations Web site at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest/center.html
 
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
Symantec Reports First Quarter Fiscal Year 2006 Results
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Non-GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income
Non-GAAP amounts exclude all acquisition related amortization of intangibles and amortization of deferred stock-based compensation, acquired IPR&D, restructuring charges, integration planning charges related to our merger with VERITAS, reduction of foreign taxes provided on earnings repatriated under the Jobs Act, and related income tax benefits.
 
 
Symantec Reports First Quarter Fiscal Year 2006 Results
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Gross Profit, Operating Expenses and Consolidated Statements of Income to the GAAP Gross Profit, Operating Expenses and Consolidated Statements of Income
 
SYMANTEC CORPORATION
Consolidated Balance Sheets


