FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20051101165830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 1, 2005, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today reported results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, ended Sept. 30, 2005. GAAP revenue for the September 2005 quarter was $1.056 billion and non-GAAP revenue was $1.192 billion. Non-GAAP revenue includes $136 million of deferred revenue that has been eliminated from GAAP results as part of the purchase accounting associated with the acquisition of VERITAS Software Corporation. On a non-GAAP basis, revenue grew 8 percent over the September 2004 quarter's combined non-GAAP revenue of $1.103 billion.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Nov. 1, 2005 
The September quarter's GAAP net loss was $251 million, resulting in fully diluted GAAP loss per share of $0.21. The loss was driven primarily by the write-off of $284 million in IPR&D expense associated with the acquisition of VERITAS, in addition to other merger-related acquisition and restructuring charges.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income was $273 million for the second quarter, 16 percent higher than the September 2004 quarter's combined non-GAAP net income of $235 million. Non-GAAP fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.23, up 21 percent as compared to our combined non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.19 in the September 2004 quarter.
Non-GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP results, as presented in the attached consolidated statements, exclude certain non-GAAP expenses, net of tax, and include VERITAS results of operations for the applicable periods, including adjustments based on the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date of July 2, 2005, and deferred revenue that was eliminated as a result of purchase accounting for the VERITAS acquisition.
"We are very pleased with our first quarter of combined operations," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and chief executive officer. "Our team remained dedicated and focused on serving the needs of customers, resulting in solid September quarter results. We remain excited by the interest we're seeing from both customers and partners around the world."
 
Symantec Reports Second Quarter Earnings Page 2 of 4
For the quarter, Symantec's worldwide enterprise security business, which includes Symantec's enterprise security solutions, as well as response and managed security services, represented 22 percent of total revenue and grew 11 percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year. Symantec's storage management segment, which includes Symantec's cloning and imaging products and VERITAS' Foundation Suite and Utility Computing solutions, represented 21 percent of total revenue and grew on a combined non-GAAP basis by six percent year-over-year. Symantec's Data Protection segment, which is comprised of Backup Exec, Net Backup and Enterprise Vault solutions, delivered 24 percent of total revenue and grew two percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year. Symantec's consumer business represented 29 percent of total revenue and grew ten percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year. Services revenue, which is comprised of consulting and education, represented four percent of total revenue and grew 41 percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year.
Revenue Components
International revenues represented 49 percent of non-GAAP revenue in the second quarter and grew 15 percent on a combined non-GAAP basis over the same quarter last year. The Americas, including the United States, Latin America, and Canada, represented 56 percent of total revenue and grew 3 percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year. The Europe, Middle East, and Africa region represented 30 percent of total revenue and grew 11 percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year. Asia Pacific/Japan represented 13 percent of total revenue and grew 25 percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year.
For the December 2005 quarter, GAAP revenue is estimated at $1.165 billion. This excludes $98 million of deferred revenue that was lost through the purchase accounting for the VERITAS transaction. Including this deferred revenue, Symantec's non-GAAP revenue for the December 2005 quarter is estimated at $1.263 billion, six percent higher than the combined non-GAAP revenue from last December.
December Quarter Forecast
GAAP fully diluted earnings per share for the December quarter is estimated at $0.10. Non-GAAP fully diluted earnings per share, including $98 million of VERITAS deferred revenue that was eliminated as part of the purchase accounting, and excluding all merger-related costs, restructuring charges, and deferred compensation expenses, is forecasted at $0.25.
For the fiscal year ending March 2006, GAAP revenue is estimated at $4.2 billion. This excludes $288 million of deferred revenue that was lost through the purchase accounting for the VERITAS transaction and $559 million of revenue related to VERITAS for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Including the $288 million of deferred revenue lost through the purchase accounting and including the $559 million of VERITAS March quarter revenue. Symantec's combined Non-GAAP revenue for fiscal 2006 is estimated at $5 billion, 8 percent higher than the combined non-GAAP revenue for fiscal 2005 of $4.625 billion.
Fiscal Year 2006 Forecast
GAAP fully diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year ending in March 2006 is estimated at $0.19. Non-GAAP fully diluted earnings per share, including the net income effect of VERITAS deferred revenue that was eliminated during the
 
Symantec Reports Second Quarter Earnings Page 3 of 4
purchase accounting and including the VERITAS results for March 31, 2005 quarter, and excluding all merger-related costs, restructuring charges, and deferred compensation expenses, is estimated at $0.99.
Quarterly Highlights
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the results of the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, ended Sept. 30, 2005, and to review guidance for the fiscal year 2006. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
Conference Call
http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html
About Symantec
Symantec is the world leader in providing solutions to help individuals and enterprises assure the security, availability, and integrity of their information. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in more than 40 countries. More information is available at
www.symantec.com.
 
Symantec Reports Second Quarter Earnings Page 4 of 4
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including statements relating to projections of future revenue and earnings per share. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: the success of the VERITAS merger, including successful integration of VERITAS' businesses, maintenance of customer and partner relationships and leveraging of synergies; the sustainability of recent growth rates, particularly in consumer products; the anticipation of the growth of certain market segments, particularly enterprise security and international; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; general market conditions; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; whether Symantec can successfully develop new products and integrate acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors section of Symantec's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2005. Symantec assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS:
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, Symantec reports non-GAAP financial results. Non-GAAP net income and earnings per share exclude certain non-GAAP expenses, net of tax, and include VERITAS results of operations for the applicable periods, including adjustments based on the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date of July 2, 2005 and deferred revenue that was eliminated as a result of purchase accounting for the VERITAS acquisition. Symantec's management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they provide supplemental information that facilitates comparisons to prior periods. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its financial results, develop budgets and manage expenditures. The method Symantec uses to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP, may differ from the methods used by other companies and should not be regarded as a replacement for corresponding GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to this release and can also be found on the investor relations page of Symantec's Web site, along with additional pro forma financial information for the combined company, at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest/center.html
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please view the Symantec Press Center at http://www.symantec.com/PressCenter/ on Symantec's Web site. All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
Symantec, the Symantec logo, VERITAS, and the VERITAS logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. Additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the individual companies and are respectfully acknowledged.
 
 
*Share and per share amounts for the three and six months ended September 30, 2004 retroactively reflect the two-for-one stock split effected as a stock dividend, which occurred on November 19, 2004. For the three and six months ended September 30, 2004, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $3.6M and $7.2M for the three and six months ended September 30, 2004, respectively, and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes.
 
 
 
 
 


