FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20050916144958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
     On July 8, 2005, Symantec Corporation ("Symantec") filed a Form 8-K to report that, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated December 15, 2004 by and among Symantec, a wholly owned subsidiary of Symantec and VERITAS Software Corporation ("VERITAS"), the Symantec subsidiary merged with and into VERITAS (the "Merger") and VERITAS became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Symantec. The Merger closed and became effective on July 2, 2005. This Form 8-K/A is being filed to provide the financial statements described under Item 9.01 below. These financial statements are filed as Exhibits 99.1, 99.3, and 99.4 to this Form 8-K/A.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
The required financial statements of VERITAS as of and for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
VERITAS' management report on internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 is incorporated by reference into this report from paragraph (b) of Item 9A on page 56 of VERITAS' Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. A copy of the management report is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. The management report is included in this Form 8-K/A because it is referenced in the audit report of KPMG LLP with respect to its integrated audit of the financial statements of VERITAS for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and the effectiveness of VERITAS' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. The management report represents the assessment of VERITAS' management of the effectiveness of VERITAS' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 and has not been updated by Symantec to reflect current facts and circumstances existing as of the date of this filing. The management report should be reviewed in conjunction with Item 9A of VERITAS' Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and Item 4 of VERITAS' Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
The required financial statements of VERITAS as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2005 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
The required pro forma financial information as of and for the three months ended June 30, 2005 and for the twelve months ended March 31, 2005 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 23.1
The Board of Directors VERITAS Software Corporation:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 33-31444, 33-32065, 33-33654, 33-37066, 33-42440, 33-44203, 33-46927, 33-51612, 33-54396, 33-55300, 33-64290, 33-70558, 33-80360, 33-88694, 33-60141, 33-64507, 333-07223, 333-18353, 333-18355, 333-39175, 333-71021, 333-71023, 333-31526, 333-31540, 333-31632, 333-47648, 333-52200, 333-56874, 333-64174, 333-81146, 333-102096, 333-106173, 333-116547, 333-117176, 333-119872 and 333-126403, and Form S-3 Nos. 33-82012, 33-63513, 333-77072, 333-127958 and 333-127959) of Symantec Corporation, of our reports dated April 6, 2005 with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of VERITAS Software Corporation as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, and related financial statement schedule, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, included in this current report Form 8-K/A dated September 16, 2005.
Our report dated April 6, 2005, on management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, expresses our opinion that VERITAS Software Corporation did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 because of the effect of a material weakness on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria and contains an explanatory paragraph that states that the following deficiencies resulted in errors in accounting for software revenue recognition and have been identified and included in management's assessment because, in the aggregate, they constitute a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004:
Our report dated April 6, 2005, contains an explanatory paragraph that refers to the Company's adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. (FIN) 46, effective July 1, 2003.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an Interpretation of ARB No. 51,
/s/ KPMG LLP Mountain View, California September 15, 2005

 
Exhibit 99.1
     
The consolidated financial statements of VERITAS Software Corporation (referred to in this exhibit as the "Company") for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 are provided in this exhibit. The consolidated financial statements included in this exhibit are as follows:
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
VERITAS Software Corporation:
     
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of VERITAS Software Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the accompanying financial statement schedule II. These consolidated financial statements and related schedule are the responsibility of the management of VERITAS Software Corporation. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and related schedule based on our audits.
     
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of VERITAS Software Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
     
As discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, effective July 1, 2003, VERITAS Software Corporation and subsidiaries adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (FIN) No. 46, ..
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an Interpretation of ARB No
 51
     
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting of VERITAS Software Corporation as of December 31, 2004, based on the criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated April 6, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of, and an adverse opinion on the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
Mountain View, California
April 6, 2005
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
VERITAS Software Corporation:
     
We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing as Exhibit 99.2, " VERITAS Software Corporation Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting as of December 31, 2004," that VERITAS Software Corporation and subsidiaries did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, because of the effect of the material weakness identified in management's assessment, based on the criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Management of VERITAS Software Corporation is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
     
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     
A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement will not be prevented or detected. The following deficiencies resulted in errors in accounting for software revenue recognition and have been identified and included in management's assessment because, in the aggregate, they constitute a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004:
 
     
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of VERITAS Software Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. The aforementioned material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the 2004 consolidated financial statements, and this report does not affect our report dated April 6, 2005, which expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and the related financial statement schedule.
     
In our opinion, management's assessment that VERITAS Software Corporation did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in issued by COSO. Also, in our opinion, because of the effect of the material weakness described above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, VERITAS Software Corporation has not maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on the criteria established in issued by COSO.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
Mountain View, California
April 6, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
VERITAS Software Corporation (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, is a leading independent supplier of storage and infrastructure software products and services. The Company's software products operate across a variety of computing environments, from personal computers ("PCs") and workgroup servers to enterprise servers and networking platforms in corporate data centers to protect, archive and recover business-critical data, provide high levels of application availability, enhance and tune system and application performance to define and meet service levels and enable recovery from disasters. The Company's solutions enable businesses to reduce costs by efficiently and effectively managing their information technology ("IT") infrastructure as they seek to maximize value from their IT investments. The Company offers software products focused on three areas: Data Protection, Storage Management and Utility Computing Infrastructure. The Company also provides a full range of services to assist customers in assessing, architecting, implementing, supporting and maintaining their storage and infrastructure software solutions. The Company sells and markets its products and related services both directly to end-users and through a variety of indirect sales channels, which include value-added resellers, distributors, systems integrators and original equipment manufacturers. The Company's customers include many leading global corporations and small and medium-sized enterprises around the world operating in a wide variety of industries.
 
     
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
     
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
     
Certain amounts reported in the previous years have been reclassified to conform to the 2004 presentation.
 
     
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and with original maturities of three months or less. The Company invests its excess cash in diversified instruments maintained primarily in U.S. financial institutions in an effort to preserve principal and to maintain safety and liquidity.
 
     
The Company classifies all of its short-term investments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115, The Company's short-term investments do not include strategic investments.
Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.
     
As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company classified its short-term investments as available-for-sale, and all short-term investments consisted of securities with original maturities in excess of 90 days. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized holding gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders' equity, net of
 
tax, on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. The amortization of premiums and discounts on the investments and realized gains and losses, determined by specific identification based on the trade date of the transaction, are included in interest and other income, net, in the Company's consolidated statements of operations.
 
     
The following methods are used to estimate the fair value of the Company's financial instruments:
 
     
The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, SFAS No. 109 prescribes the use of the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and are measured using the enacted statutory tax rates expected to apply when realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets when uncertainty regarding their realizability exists.
Accounting for Income Taxes.
 
     
Property and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation and amortization are calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives or, in the case of leasehold improvements, the remaining lease term, if shorter. The estimated useful life of furniture and equipment and computer equipment is generally two to five years and the estimated useful life of the Company's buildings is thirty-five years.
 
     
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in business combinations over their estimated fair value. Other intangibles include developed technology, customer base, license agreements, trademarks and other intangibles acquired and convertible subordinated note issuance costs. On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, , which requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142. As a result, the Company no longer amortizes goodwill, but will test it for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangibles that are subject to amortization are amortized over a one to five year period using the straight-line method. Convertible subordinated note issuance costs are amortized over the applicable term of the obligation.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
 
     
The Company holds investments in capital stock in privately-held companies. These strategic investments do not represent a greater than 20% voting interest in any investee and the Company does not have the ability to significantly influence any investee's operating and financial policies. The investments are accounted for on a cost basis and are included in other non-current assets.
     
Impairment losses are recognized on these strategic investments when the Company determines that there has been a decline in the fair value of the investment that is other-than-temporary.
 
     
On January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133, SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities and requires the Company to recognize these as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measure them at fair value. If certain conditions are met, a derivative may be specifically designated and accounted for as (a) a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment, (b) a hedge of the exposure to variable cash flows of a transaction, or (c) a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, an unrecognized firm commitment, an available-for-sale security, or a foreign-currency-denominated forecasted transaction. Derivatives or portions of derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are adjusted to fair value through earnings in the period of change in their fair value.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
     
The Company transacts business in various foreign currencies and has established a foreign currency hedging program, utilizing foreign currency forward exchange contracts ("forward contracts") to hedge certain foreign currency transaction exposures. The objective of these contracts is to neutralize the impact of currency exchange rate movements on the Company's operating results by offsetting gains and losses on the forward contracts with increases or decreases in foreign currency transactions. The Company does not designate its foreign exchange forward contracts as hedges and accordingly, adjusts these instruments to fair value through earnings. The Company does not use forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes.
 
     
In October 1997, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee issued Statement of Position ("SOP") No. 97-2, , which has been amended by SOP No. 98-4, , and SOP No. 98-9, These statements set forth generally accepted accounting principles for recognizing revenue on software transactions. SOP No. 97-2, as amended by SOP No. 98-4, was effective for revenue recognized under software license and services arrangements beginning January 1, 1998. SOP No. 98-9 amended SOP No. 97-2 and requires recognition of revenue using the "residual method" when certain criteria are met.
Software Revenue Recognition
Deferral of the Effective Date of a Provision of SOP 97-2
Modification of SOP No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions.
     
The Company derives revenue primarily from two sources: software licenses and services. Revenue from software licenses is primarily related to the licensing of software products under perpetual license agreements. Services revenue includes contracts for software maintenance and technical support, consulting and education services. The Company applies its revenue recognition policy to determine which portions of its revenue are recognized currently and which portions must be deferred. Significant judgments and estimates are made and used by the Company to determine the amount of revenue recognized in any accounting period.
 
     
The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product or service has been delivered, the fee is fixed or determinable, collection is probable and vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of fair value exists to allocate the total fee among all delivered and undelivered elements in the arrangement.
 
     
The Company typically enters into arrangements with customers that include perpetual software licenses, maintenance and technical support. Some arrangements may also include consulting and education services. Software licenses are sold as site licenses or on a per copy basis. Site licenses give customers the right to copy licensed software on either a limited or unlimited basis during a specified term. Per copy licenses give customers the right to use a single copy of licensed software.
     
Assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, license revenue is recognized upon delivery using the residual method in accordance with SOP No. 98-9. Under the residual method, the Company allocates and defers revenue for the undelivered elements, based on VSOE of fair value, and recognizes the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount deferred for the undelivered elements as revenue. The determination of fair value of each undelivered element in multiple element arrangements is based on the price charged when the same element is sold separately. If sufficient evidence of fair value cannot be determined for any undelivered item, all revenue from the arrangement is deferred until VSOE of fair value can be established or until all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. If the only undelivered element is maintenance and technical support for which the Company cannot establish VSOE, the Company will recognize the entire arrangement fees ratably over the maintenance and support term.
     
Maintenance and technical support includes updates (unspecified product upgrades and enhancements) on a when-and-if-available basis, telephone support and bug fixes or patches. VSOE of fair value for maintenance and technical support is based upon stated renewal rates for site licenses and historical renewal rates for per copy licenses. Maintenance and technical support revenue is recognized ratably over the maintenance term.
     
Consulting primarily consists of product installation services that do not involve customization of the software. Installation services provided by the Company are not mandatory and can also be performed by the customer or a third party. Our VSOE of fair value for consulting is based upon the price charged when sold separately. Consulting revenue is recognized as work is performed when reasonably dependable estimates can be made of the extent of progress toward completion, contract revenue and contract costs. Otherwise, consulting revenue is recognized when the services are complete.
     
Education services primarily consist of courses taught by the Company's instructors at its facilities or at the customer's site. Various courses are offered specific to the license products. Education services fees are based on a per course basis or on an annual education pass, which allows for unlimited courses to be taken by one individual over a one-year term. Our VSOE of fair value for education services is based upon the price charged when sold separately. Revenue is recognized when the customer has completed the course. For annual education passes, the revenue is recognized ratably over the one-year term.
 
     
The Company defines revenue recognition criteria as follows:
 
 
     
The Company generally recognizes revenue from licensing of software products through its indirect sales channel upon sell-through or with evidence of an end-user. For certain types of customers, such as distributors, the Company recognizes revenue upon receipt of a point of sales report, which is its evidence that the products have been sold through to an end-user. For resellers, the Company recognizes revenue when it obtains evidence that an end-user exists, which is usually when the software is delivered. For licensing of the Company's software to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), royalty revenue is recognized when the OEM reports the sale of the software products to an end-user customer, generally on a quarterly basis. In addition to license royalties, some OEMs pay an annual flat fee and/or support royalties for the right to sell maintenance and technical support to the end-user. The Company recognizes revenue from OEM support royalties and fees ratably over the term of the support agreement.
 
     
Some of the Company's customers are also its suppliers. Occasionally, in the normal course of business, the Company purchases goods or services for its operations from these suppliers at or about the same time the Company licenses its software to them. The Company also has multi-year agreements under which it receives sub-licensing royalty payments from OEMs from whom it may also purchase goods or services. The Company identifies and reviews significant transactions to confirm that they are separately negotiated at terms the Company considers to be arm's length. In cases where the transactions are not separately negotiated, the Company applies the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 29, , and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue ("EITF") No. 01-02, If the fair values are reasonably determinable, revenue is recorded at the fair values of the products delivered or products or services received, whichever is more readily determinable. If the Company cannot determine fair value of either of the goods or services involved within reasonable limits, it records the transaction on a net basis. License revenue associated with software licenses entered into with our suppliers at or about the same time that the Company purchases goods or services from them is not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions
Interpretations of APB Opinion 29.
 
 
     
The Company's license arrangements do not typically provide customers a contractual right of return. Some of the Company's sales programs allow customers limited product exchange rights. The Company estimates potential future product returns and exchanges and reduces current period product revenue in accordance with SFAS No. 48, The Company's estimate is based on its analysis of historical returns and exchanges. Actual returns may vary from estimates if the Company experiences a change in actual sales, returns or exchange patterns due to unanticipated changes in products, competitive or economic conditions.
Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists.
 
     
Cost of revenue includes costs related to user license and services revenue and amortization of acquired developed technology. Cost of user license revenue includes material, packaging, shipping and other production costs and third-party royalties. Cost of services includes salaries, benefits and overhead costs associated with employees providing maintenance and technical support, consulting and education services. Third-party consultant fees are also included in cost of services.
 
     
The Company accounts for the development cost of software intended for sale in accordance with SFAS No. 86, SFAS No. 86 requires product development costs to be charged to expense as incurred until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility has been established upon completion of a working model, which is when the majority of system and beta testing has been performed. To date, software development costs incurred between completion of a working model and general release to customers have not been material and, in accordance with our policy, have not been capitalized. As such, all software development costs have been charged to research and development expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed.
 
     
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of investments in debt securities, trade receivables and financial instruments used in hedging activities. The Company primarily invests its excess cash in commercial paper rated A-1/ P-1, corporate notes, government securities (taxable and non-taxable), asset-backed securities, auction market securities with approved financial institutions and other specific money market instruments of similar liquidity and credit quality. The Company is exposed to credit risks in the event of default by the financial institutions or issuers of investments to the extent recorded on the balance sheet. The Company generally does not require collateral. The Company maintains allowances for credit losses on trade receivables based on various factors, including changes in customers' ability to pay due to bankruptcy, cash flow issues or other changes in the customer's financial condition, significant payment delays and other economic conditions. Such losses have been within management's expectations. The counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company's financial instruments used in hedging activities consist of major, multinational, high credit quality, financial institutions. The amounts potentially subject to credit risk arising from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which a counterparty's obligations exceed the obligations of the Company with that counterparty. The Company does not expect to incur material losses with respect to financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk.
 
 
     
Basic income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive potential common shares consist of employee stock options, restricted stock units and common shares issuable assuming conversion of the convertible subordinated notes using the treasury stock method, if dilutive.
 
     
The Company accounts for employee stock-based compensation in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, , and related interpretations, and the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 148, Since the exercise price of options granted under the Company's stock option plans is equal to the market value on the date of grant, no compensation cost has been recognized for grants under such plans. In accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, the Company does not recognize compensation cost related to its employee stock purchase plan. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense in connection with stock options assumed in acquisitions and its grants of restricted stock units over the applicable service period which is generally equal to the vesting period. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and net income per share if the Company had accounted for its stock option and stock purchase plans under the fair value method of accounting under SFAS No. 123, :
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure  an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
 
     
For the pro forma amounts determined under SFAS No. 123, as set forth above, the fair value of each stock option grant under the stock option plans is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for grants:
     
For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the expected volatility assumptions the Company used prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 were based solely on the historical volatility of the Company's common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life of the Company's stock options. Beginning with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company modified its approach and expected volatility by considering other relevant factors in accordance with SFAS No. 123. The Company considered implied volatility in market-traded options on the Company's common stock as well as historical volatility. The Company will continue to monitor these and other relevant factors used to measure expected volatility for future option grants.
     
Also, beginning with the third quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company decreased its estimate of the expected life of new options granted to its employees from 5 years to 4 years. The Company based its expected life assumption on historical experience as well as the terms and vesting periods of the options granted. The reduction in the estimated expected life was a result of an analysis of the Company's historical experience.
     
The fair value of the employees' purchase rights under the employee stock purchase plan is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions for these rights:
     
In 2004, the Company granted 503,250 restricted stock units to certain employees resulting in deferred stock-based compensation of $12.6 million and recorded $2.2 million of associated stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2004. The compensation expense related to the restricted stock units is charged to the statement of operations over the vesting period, which is 3 to 4 years. As a result of the Company's restatement of its financial statements for 2002 and 2001 and the delay in filing its Form  10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company suspended option-holders' ability to use the Company's registration statements for its stock option plans (the "Plans"). As a result, option-holders were unable to exercise options under the Plans until such time as the Company filed its Form  10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and lifted the suspension on the use of the registration statements. Pursuant to the terms of the Plans, options held by certain former employees of the Company were scheduled to expire during the suspension period. On March 15, 2004, the Company extended the expiration date of such options for a period of 15 days from the date of filing the Form  10-K, which was considered a modification of such options. For the year ended December 31, 2004, $4.3 million was expensed in the statement of operations as a result of this modification.
 
 
     
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, whose functional currency is the local currency, are translated at year-end exchange rates. Income and expense items are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. The adjustment resulting from translating the financial statements of such foreign subsidiaries is reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders' equity. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses are reported in results of operations.
 
     
The Company reviews its goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, SFAS No. 142 requires that the Company perform the goodwill impairment test annually or when a change in facts and circumstances indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit may be below its carrying amount. The Company completed this test in the fourth quarter of 2004, 2003 and 2002 and no impairment loss was recognized upon completion of the tests.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
 
     
The Company reviews its long-lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets with estimable useful lives, for impairment whenever an event or change in facts and circumstances indicates that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company assesses impairment of its long-lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144, The Company determines recoverability of the asset group by comparing the carrying amount of the asset group to the net future undiscounted cash flows that the asset group is expected to generate. The impairment recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair market value of the asset group. No impairment was recognized in 2004 and 2003. During 2002, certain long-lived assets were impaired in connection with the Company's restructuring plan as discussed in Note 8.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
 
     
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was approximately $36.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, $38.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 and $34.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.
 
     
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 123R, , which revises SFAS No. 123, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, , and its related implementation guidance. This Statement focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions, including the issuance of stock options and other stock-based compensation to employees. Public companies are required to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award, which is usually the vesting period. The grant-date fair value of employee share options and similar instruments will be estimated using option-pricing models adjusted for the unique characteristics of those instruments. The Statement is effective for the Company's interim reporting period beginning July 1, 2005 and applies to all awards granted after the effective date and to awards modified, repurchased or canceled after that date. The cumulative effect of initially applying this Statement is recognized as of the effective date. After the effective date, compensation cost will be recognized for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered.
Share-Based Payment
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
 
For periods before the effective date, the Company can elect to apply a modified version of retrospective application under which financial statements for prior periods are adjusted on a basis consistent with the pro forma disclosures required for those periods by SFAS No. 123. See above for the pro forma net income (loss) and per share amounts for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 as if the Company had used a fair value-based method similar to the requirements of SFAS No. 123R to measure stock-based compensation expense. The Company is currently quantifying the impact this Statement will have on its financial position and results of operations. The Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have a material effect on its cash flows.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
     
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, SFAS No. 153 amends APB Opinion No. 29 to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement will be effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 153 will have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Exchange of Nonmonetary Assets, an Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29.
     
In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. FAS 109-1, , and FSP No. FAS 109-2, FSP No. FAS 109-1 requires that tax deductions on qualified production activities related to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") be accounted for as a special deduction under SFAS No. 109. The provisions of FSP No. FAS 109-1 are effective for the Company's fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. The adoption of FSP No. FAS 109-1 did not have a material impact in 2004 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows in future periods. FSP No. FAS 109-2 permits an enterprise to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109 beyond its financial reporting period. The Act includes a deduction of 85% of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, as defined in the Act. The Company has elected to apply this provision to qualifying earnings repatriations in the year ending December 31, 2005. The Company is currently evaluating the impact FSP No. FAS 109-2 will have on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
     
In September 2004, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF No. 04-8, , that all issued securities that have embedded conversion features that are contingently exercisable upon occurrence of a market-price condition should be included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, regardless of whether the market price trigger has been met. This consensus also applies to instruments with embedded conversion features that are contingently exercisable upon the occurrence of a market price condition or upon the occurrence of another contingency. The Company adopted EITF No. 04-8 in December 2004 and the adoption did not have a material effect on its diluted per share calculation.
The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share
     
In March 2004, the FASB issued EITF No. 03-1, EITF No. 03-1 includes new guidance for evaluating and recording impairment losses on debt and equity investments, as well as new disclosure requirements for investments that are deemed to be temporarily impaired. In September 2004, the FASB delayed the accounting provisions of EITF No. 03-1; however the disclosure requirements are effective for the Company's annual periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company will evaluate the impact of EITF No. 03-1 once final guidance is issued.
The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.
 
     
In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. ("FIN") 46, , which addresses the consolidation of variable interest entities. FIN 46 provides guidance for determining when an entity that is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity or equivalent structure should consolidate the variable interest entity into the entity's financial statements. In December 2003, the FASB completed deliberations of proposed modifications to FIN 46 resulting in multiple effective dates based on the nature as well as the creation date of the variable interest entity. The Company had three build-to-suit operating leases, commonly referred to as synthetic leases. Each synthetic lease was owned by a trust that did not have any voting rights, employees, financing activity other than the lease with the Company, ability to absorb losses or right to participate in gains realized on the sale of the related property. The Company determined that the trusts under the leasing structures qualified as variable interest entities for purposes of FIN 46. Consequently, the Company was considered the primary beneficiary and consolidated the trusts into its financial statements beginning July 1, 2003. As a result of consolidating these entities in the third quarter of 2003, the Company reported a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in accordance with APB Opinion No. 20, , with a charge of $6.2 million which equals the amount of depreciation expense that would have been recorded had these trusts been consolidated from the date the properties were available for occupancy, net of tax, In addition, on July 1, 2003, the Company recorded property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, equal to $366.8 million, long-term debt in the amount of $369.2 million and non-controlling interest of $11.4 million for a total of $380.6 million of long-term debt on the balance sheet. Depreciation expense related to these properties is approximately $1.6 million per quarter and $4.2 million per quarter of rent expense previously classified as cost of revenue and operating expenses has been classified as interest expense in the statements of operations beginning July 1, 2003.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51
Accounting Changes
 
     
On December 16, 2004, VERITAS and Symantec Corporation announced that the companies had entered into a definitive agreement (the "Agreement") to merge in an all-stock transaction. Under the agreement, which has been unanimously approved by both boards of directors, all of the Company's stock will be converted into Symantec stock at a fixed exchange ratio of 1.1242 shares of Symantec common stock for each outstanding share of VERITAS common stock. Upon closing, Symantec stockholders will own approximately 60 percent and VERITAS stockholders will own approximately 40 percent of the combined company. Completion of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions that include receipt of required approvals from the stockholders of the Company and Symantec and receipt of required regulatory approvals. The transaction, which is expected to close in the second calendar quarter of 2005, may not be completed if any of the conditions are not satisfied.
     
Under terms specified in the merger agreement, VERITAS or Symantec may terminate the agreement, and as a result either VERITAS or Symantec may be required to pay a $440 million termination fee to the other party in certain circumstances.
 
 
     
On September 20, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of KVault Software Limited ("KVS"), a provider of e-mail archiving products. The Company acquired KVS to extend its storage software market to include products to store, manage, backup and archive corporate e-mail and data. The KVS acquisition included total purchase consideration of $249.2 million which included $224.1 million of cash, $19.6 million relating to the assumption of KVS' outstanding unvested stock options for 1.2 million shares of the Company's common stock and $5.5 million of acquisition-related
 
costs. As a result of the acquisition, the Company recorded deferred stock-based compensation of $17.2 million, which will be amortized over the remaining vesting period for the stock options assumed. The fair value of the Company's stock options assumed was determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the following assumptions: estimated expected life of 4 years, risk-free interest rate of 3.08%, expected volatility of 62% and no expected dividend yield. Upon assumption by the Company of the outstanding KVS options, each KVS option became exercisable for 0.0886 shares of the Company's common stock.
     
The total estimated purchase price was allocated to KVS' net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of the completion of the acquisition. The following represents the allocation of the aggregate purchase price to the acquired net assets of KVS:
     
The Company does not expect future adjustments to the purchase price or purchase price allocation to be material. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, which is consistent with the guidance in SFAS No. 142. Developed technology, customer base and other intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated useful lives of five years. The weighted average amortization period for all purchased intangible assets is five years.
     
In connection with the acquisition of KVS, the Company allocated $11.5 million of the purchase price to in-process technology that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. This amount has been expensed in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
     
In order to value purchased in-process research and development ("IPR&D"), a research project for which technological feasibility had not been established was identified. The value of this project was determined by estimating the expected cash flows from the project and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value, using an appropriate discount rate.
     
Net Cash Flows.
The net cash flows expected from the identified project are based on the Company's estimates of revenues, cost of sales, research and development costs, selling, general and administrative costs and income taxes from those projects. Revenue estimates are based on the assumptions mentioned below. The research and development costs included in the estimates reflect costs to bring in-process projects to technological feasibility and sustain the technology thereafter.
     
The estimated revenues are based on the Company's projection of each in-process project and the business projections were compared and found to be consistent with industry analysts' forecasts of growth
 
in substantially all of the relevant markets. Estimated total revenues related to the contribution of the IPR&D project to the various products affected are expected to peak in the year ending December 31, 2008 and decline from 2009 into 2011 as the affected products continue to evolve.
     
These projections are based on the Company's estimates of market size and growth, expected trends in technology and the nature and expected timing of new project introductions by KVS.
     
Discount Rate.
Discounting the expected net cash flows back to their present value is based on the industry weighted average cost of capital ("WACC"). The Company believes the overall WACC is approximately 21%. The discount rate used to discount the expected net cash flows from IPR&D is 23%. The discount rate used is higher than the overall WACC due to inherent uncertainties surrounding the successful development of IPR&D, market acceptance of the technology, the useful life of such technology and the uncertainty of technological advances which could potentially impact the estimates described above.
     
Percentage of Completion.
The percentage of completion for the in-process project identified was estimated at approximately 56% based on costs incurred to date on the project as compared to the remaining costs required to bring the project to technological feasibility.
     
If the projects discussed above are not successfully developed, the sales and profitability of the Company may be adversely affected in future periods.
     
Acquisition-related costs of $5.5 million consist of $2.2 million associated with legal and other professional fees, $2.1 million for terminating and satisfying existing lease commitments, $0.1 million of severance related costs and $1.1 million of government taxes associated with the acquisition. Costs associated with terminating and satisfying existing lease commitments will be paid over the remaining lease terms ending in 2006 through 2015 or over a shorter period as the Company may negotiate with its lessors. The Company expects the majority of costs will be paid by the year ending December 31, 2008. Total cash outlays for acquisition-related costs were approximately $3.2 million for legal and other professional fees through December 31, 2004.
     
The results of operations of KVS are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from September 21, 2004. The pro forma results of operations disclosed below give effect to the acquisition of KVS as if the acquisition was consummated on January 1, 2003.
 
     
On July 14, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Invio Software, Inc. ("Invio"), a privately held supplier of information technology ("IT") process automation technology. The Company acquired Invio to extend the capability of software products that enable utility computing by offering customers a tool for standardizing and automating IT service delivery in key areas such as storage provisioning, server provisioning and data protection. The Invio acquisition included purchase consideration of approximately $35.4 million which included $34.9 million in cash and $0.5 million of acquisition-related costs. The purchase price was allocated to goodwill of $22.8 million, developed technology of $7.7 million, net deferred tax assets of $4.6 million and net tangible assets of $0.3 million. The amortization period for the developed technology is 4.0 years. Acquisition-related costs consist of $0.5 million for legal and other professional fees. Total cash outlays for acquisition-related costs were $0.5 million through December 31, 2004. The results of operations of Invio were included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The pro forma impact of the acquisition on the Company's results of operations is not significant.
 
 
     
On January 20, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Ejasent, Inc. ("Ejasent"), a privately held provider of application virtualization technology for utility computing. The Company acquired Ejasent to add important application migration technology, which allows IT personnel to move an application from one server to another without disrupting or terminating the application, to the Company's growing utility computing portfolio. The Ejasent acquisition included purchase consideration of $61.2 million, with $47.8 million in cash and $13.4 million of acquisition-related costs. The purchase price was allocated to goodwill of $33.0 million, developed technology of $10.2 million, other intangibles of $1.9 million, IPR&D of $0.4 million, net deferred tax assets of $15.9 million and net tangible liabilities of $0.2 million. The weighted average amortization period for all purchased intangible assets is 4.4 years. Acquisition-related costs consist of $11.2 million of change in control bonuses and direct transaction costs of $2.2 million for legal and other professional fees. Total cash outlays for acquisition-related costs were $13.4 million through December 31, 2004. The results of operations of Ejasent were included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The pro forma impact of the acquisition on the Company's results of operations is not significant.
 
     
On June 30, 2003, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Precise Software Solutions Ltd. ("Precise"), a provider of application performance management products. The Company acquired Precise in order to expand its product and service offerings across storage, databases and application management. The Precise acquisition included purchase consideration of $714.6 million, with 7.3 million shares of common stock valued at $210.6 million, $397.8 million of cash, $94.0 million relating to the assumption of Precise's outstanding vested and unvested stock options for 4.4 million shares of the Company's common stock and $12.2 million of acquisition-related costs. The purchase price was allocated to goodwill of $500.8 million, which is net of fiscal 2004 tax and other adjustments of $8.9 million, developed technology of $27.6 million, other intangibles of $34.3 million, IPR&D of $15.3 million, net deferred tax liabilities of $13.0 million, deferred stock-based compensation of $7.3 million and net tangible assets of $142.3 million. The weighted average amortization period for all purchased intangible assets is 3.7 years. The acquired IPR&D of $15.3 million was written off and the related charge was expensed in the statement of operations in the second quarter of 2003. Acquisition-related costs of $12.2 million consist of $8.9 million associated with investment banking, legal and other professional fees, $2.9 million for terminating and satisfying existing lease commitments and $0.4 million for severance-related costs. Total cash outlays for acquisition-related costs were approximately $8.8 million for investment banking, legal and other professional fees, $0.4 million for severance and $0.9 million for leases through December 31, 2004.
     
The results of operations of Precise are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from July 1, 2003. The pro forma results of operations disclosed below give effect to the acquisition of Precise as if the acquisition was consummated on January 1, 2002.
 
     
On January 27, 2003, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Jareva Technologies, Inc. ("Jareva"), a privately held provider of automated server provisioning products that enable businesses to automatically deploy additional servers without manual intervention. The Company acquired Jareva to integrate Jareva's technology into the Company's software products to enable the Company's customers to optimize their investments in server hardware by deploying new server resources on demand. The Jareva acquisition included total purchase consideration of $68.7 million, with $58.7 million of cash, $6.8 million relating to the assumption of options exercisable for 426,766 shares of the Company's common stock and $3.2 million of acquisition-related costs. The purchase price was
 
allocated to goodwill of $47.6 million, which is net of fiscal 2004 tax adjustments of $3.7 million, developed technology of $9.1 million, other intangibles of $1.9 million, IPR&D of $4.1 million, net deferred tax liabilities of $2.5 million, deferred stock-based compensation of $4.6 million and net tangible assets of $3.9 million. The weighted average amortization period for all purchased intangible assets is 3.3 years. The acquired IPR&D of $4.1 million was written off and the related charge was expensed in the statement of operations in the first quarter of 2003. Acquisition-related costs of $3.2 million consist of $2.7 million associated with terminating and satisfying remaining lease commitments, partially offset by sublease income net of related sublease costs, and direct transaction costs of $0.5 million for legal and other professional fees. Total cash outlays for acquisition-related costs were $2.4 million through December 31, 2004. The results of operations of Jareva are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The pro forma impact on the Company's results of operations is not significant.
 
     
The results of operations of KVS and Precise are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the dates of acquisition. The following table presents pro forma results of operations and gives effect to the acquisition of KVS as if the acquisition was consummated at the beginning of 2004 and 2003 and Precise as if the acquisition was consummated at the beginning of each period presented. The unaudited pro forma results of operations are not necessarily indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisitions been made as of the beginning of the period or of the results that may occur in the future. Net income excludes the write-off of acquired IPR&D of $11.5 million for KVS and $15.3 million for Precise and includes amortization of intangible assets per quarter of $3.7 million for KVS and $4.7 million for Precise. Net income also includes amortization of deferred compensation per quarter of $2.0 million for KVS and $0.5 million for Precise. The unaudited pro forma information is as follows:
 
 
     
The Company's cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments consisted of the following at December 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
     
In accordance with EITF No. 03-1, the following table summarizes the fair value and gross unrealized losses related to available-for-sale securities, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at December 31, 2004:
     
Fair values were determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the declines in value of the Company's investments are primarily related to changes in interest rates and are considered to be temporary in nature.
     
Realized gains (losses) are included in interest and other income, net in the consolidated statements of operations. The following table sets forth the components of the Company's interest and other income, net:
     
For the year ended December 31, 2002, other miscellaneous expenses include a $6.1 million charge in connection with the settlement of a litigation matter.
     
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, as of December 31, 2004, shown by contractual maturity date, are included in the following table:
 
 
     
Property and equipment is stated at cost and consists of the following:
     
Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment was approximately $111.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, $114.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 and $103.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.
 
     
On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142. As a result, the Company no longer amortizes goodwill but will test it for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
     
The following table sets forth the carrying amount of goodwill. Goodwill also includes amounts originally allocated to assembled workforce:
     
During 2004, goodwill increased $200.2 million due to the acquisitions of KVS, Invio and Ejasent in the amounts of $144.4 million, $22.8 million and $33.0 million, respectively, offset by tax adjustments of $12.8 million for prior acquisitions, and the reduction in goodwill associated with the divestiture of a portion of a prior year acquisition in the amount of $0.8 million. During 2003, goodwill increased $563.7 million due to the acquisitions of Precise, Jareva and other acquisitions in the amounts of $509.7 million, $51.3 million and $2.7 million, respectively offset by tax adjustments of $1.4 million for prior acquisitions.
 
     
The following tables set forth the carrying amount of other intangible assets that will continue to be amortized, including the impact of exchange rates:
     
The total amortization expense related to developed technology and other intangible assets is set forth in the table below:
     
For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, total amortization expense for intangible assets includes $3.8 million, $1.9 million and $0.6 million, respectively, that was included in user license fees cost of revenue.
 
     
The total expected future annual amortization of intangible assets related to acquisitions is set forth in the table below:
     
For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the amortization of the convertible subordinated notes issuance costs of $4.2 million, $2.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively, was included in interest expense. The expected future annual amortization of the convertible subordinated notes issuance costs is $4.2 million for 2005 and $2.5 million for 2006.
 
     
The Company holds investments in capital stock of several privately-held companies. The total carrying amount of these strategic investments was $2.7 million at December 31, 2004 and $5.4 million at December 31, 2003. These strategic investments are included in other non-current assets. In 2004, the Company realized a gain of $9.5 million related to two strategic investments. The Company recorded impairment losses on strategic investments of $3.5 million in 2003 and $14.8 million in 2002, partially offset by a gain on disposal of a strategic investment of $3.0 million in 2002. The losses realized represent other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of the investments and were determined based on the value of the investee's stock, its inability to obtain additional private financing, its cash position and current burn rate, the status and competitive position of the investee's products and the uncertainty of its financial condition, among other factors.
 
     
In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company's board of directors approved a facility restructuring plan to exit and consolidate certain of the Company's facilities located in 17 metropolitan areas worldwide. The facility restructuring plan was adopted to address overcapacity in its facilities as a result of lower than planned headcount growth in these metropolitan areas. In connection with this facility restructuring plan, the Company recorded a net restructuring charge (the "2002 Facility Accrual") to operating expenses of $96.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2002. The 2002 Facility Accrual was originally comprised of (i) $86.9 million associated with terminating and satisfying remaining lease commitments, partially offset by sublease income net of related sublease costs and (ii) write-offs of $9.2 million for net assets.
     
In 2002, the Company also recorded incremental restructuring costs of $3.2 million related to restructuring initiated in 1999, resulting in total restructuring costs of $99.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2002, accrued acquisition and restructuring costs consisted of the 2002 Facility Accrual, the remaining acquisition costs to be paid in connection with prior period acquisitions, including facility related costs, and the remaining restructuring costs to be paid for other restructuring plans.
     
In the third quarter of 2004, the Company acquired KVS and, as a result, reversed $9.6 million of the 2002 Facility Accrual related to previously restructured facilities to be occupied by KVS personnel. In
 
addition, cash outlays of $14.9 million and the impact of foreign exchange rates of $1.1 million were recognized in 2004. As of December 31, 2004, the remaining balance of the 2002 Facility Accrual was $52.4 million. Restructuring costs will be paid over the remaining lease terms, ending at various dates through 2022, or over a shorter period as the Company may negotiate with its lessors. The majority of costs are expected to be paid by the year ending December 31, 2010.
     
The Company is in the process of seeking suitable subtenants for these facilities. The estimates related to the 2002 Facility Accrual may vary significantly depending, in part, on factors that are beyond the Company's control, including the commercial real estate market in the applicable metropolitan areas, its ability to obtain subleases related to these facilities and the time period to do so, the sublease rental market rates and the outcome of negotiations with lessors regarding terminations of some of the leases. Adjustments to the 2002 Facility Accrual will be made if actual lease exit costs or sublease income differ materially from amounts currently expected. Because a portion of the 2002 Facility Accrual relates to international locations, the accrual will be affected by exchange rate fluctuations.
     
As of December 31, 2004, accrued acquisition and restructuring costs consisted of the 2002 Facility Accrual discussed above, acquisition-related costs discussed in Note 3 and other accrued acquisition and restructuring charges incurred from 1999 through 2004, net of cash payments made.
     
The components of accrued acquisition and restructuring costs and movements within these components through December 31, 2004 were as follows:
 
     
In August 2003, the Company issued $520.0 million of 0.25% convertible subordinated notes due August 1, 2013 ("0.25% Notes") for which the Company received net proceeds of approximately $508.2 million, to several initial purchasers in a private offering. The 0.25% Notes were issued at their face value and provide for semi-annual interest payments of $0.7 million each February 1 and August 1, beginning February 1, 2004. Effective as of January 28, 2004, the 0.25% Notes began accruing additional interest at a rate of 0.25% as a result of the Company's registration statement having not been declared
 
effective by the SEC on or before the 180th day following the original issuance of the 0.25% Notes and the 0.25% Notes continued to accrue additional interest at that rate until April 27, 2004, the 90th day following such registration default. On April 28, 2004, the 0.25% Notes began to accrue additional interest at a rate of 0.50% and continued to accrue such additional interest until November 23, 2004, the day prior to the date on which the registration statement was declared effective. Effective as of January 30, 2005, the 0.25% Notes began to accrue additional interest at a rate of 0.25% per annum as a result of the Company's registration statement having been suspended by the Company beyond its permitted grace period. The 0.25% Notes will continue to accrue additional interest at this rate until the suspension of the Company's registration statement is lifted, and this rate will increase to 0.50% per annum if the suspension has not been lifted by April 30, 2005. The 0.25% Notes are convertible, under specified circumstances, into shares of the Company's common stock at a conversion rate of 21.6802 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $46.13 per share. Pursuant to the terms of a supplemental indenture dated as of October 25, 2004, the Company will be required to deliver cash to holders upon conversion, except to the extent that its conversion obligation exceeds the principal amount of the notes converted, in which case, the Company will have the option to satisfy the excess (and only the excess) in cash and/or shares of common stock.
     
The conversion rate of the 0.25% Notes is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. The specified circumstances under which the 0.25% Notes are convertible prior to maturity are: (1) during any quarterly conversion period (which periods begin on the eleventh trading day of each fiscal quarter and end on the eleventh trading day of the following fiscal quarter) prior to August 1, 2010, if the closing sale price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 trading day period ending on the first day of such conversion period exceeds 120% of the conversion price of the notes on that first day, (2) during the period beginning August 1, 2010 through the maturity date of the notes, if the closing sale price of the Company's common stock is more than 120% of the then current conversion price, (3) during the five consecutive business day period following any five consecutive trading day period in which the average of the trading prices for the 0.25% Notes was less than 95% of the average of the sale price of the Company's common stock multiplied by the then current conversion rate of the notes, (4) the Company's corporate credit rating assigned by Standard & Poor's falls below B- (and if Moody's has assigned a corporate credit rating to the Company and such rating is lower than B3) or if both such ratings are withdrawn, (5) the Company calls the notes for redemption or (6) upon the occurrence of corporate transactions specified in the indenture governing the notes (including, for the 15 days prior to the anticipated closing date of a merger, consolidation or similar transaction and the 15 days after the date of closing of such transaction), at the option of the holder, the 0.25% Notes are convertible in accordance with the applicable terms. On or after August 5, 2006, the Company has the option to redeem all or a portion of the 0.25% Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On August 1, 2006 and August 1, 2008, or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change involving the Company, holders of the 0.25% Notes may require the Company to repurchase their notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
     
In August 2003, all of the Company's outstanding 5.25% convertible subordinated notes due 2004 ("5.25% Notes") converted into 6.7 million shares of common stock at a conversion price of $9.56 per share. In August 2003, a portion of the Company's outstanding 1.856% convertible subordinated notes due 2006 ("1.856% Notes") converted into 0.5 million shares of common stock at an effective conversion price of $31.35 per share. The remaining outstanding principal amount of the 1.856% Notes was redeemed by the Company in August 2003 for $391.8 million in cash, including $0.1 million of accrued interest. In connection with the redemption of the 1.856% Notes for cash, the Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $4.7 million in the third quarter of 2003 related to the unamortized portion of debt issuance costs. This charge is classified as a non-operating expense in the Company's consolidated statement of operations.
 
 
     
In 1999 and 2000, the Company entered into three build-to-suit lease agreements for office buildings in Mountain View, California, Roseville, Minnesota and Milpitas, California. The Company began occupying the Roseville and Mountain View facilities in May and June 2001, respectively, and began occupying the Milpitas facility in April 2003. The Mountain View facility includes 425,000 square feet and serves as the Company's corporate headquarters and for research and development functions. The Milpitas facility includes 465,000 square feet and is primarily used for technical support, sales and general corporate functions. The Roseville facility includes 206,000 square feet and provides space for technical support and research and development functions. A syndicate of financial institutions financed the acquisition and development of these properties. Prior to July 1, 2003, the Company accounted for these properties as operating leases in accordance with SFAS No. 13, , as amended. On July 1, 2003, the Company adopted FIN 46. Under FIN 46, the lessors of the facilities are considered variable interest entities, and the Company is considered the primary beneficiary. Accordingly, the Company began consolidating these variable interest entities on July 1, 2003 and has included the property and equipment and debt on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the results of their operations in its consolidated statement of operations from July 1, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, $380.6 million of debt has been classified as current as the lease terms for the Mountain View and Roseville facilities expire in March 2005 and the lease term for the Milpitas facility expires in July 2005.
Accounting for Leases
     
Interest only payments under the debt agreements relating to the facilities are generally paid quarterly and are equal to the termination value of the outstanding debt obligations multiplied by the Company's cost of funds, which is based on London Inter Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") using 30-day to 180-day LIBOR contracts and adjusted for the Company's credit spread. The termination values of the debt agreements are approximately $145.2 million, $41.2 million and $194.2 million for the Mountain View, Roseville and Milpitas leases, respectively. The terms of these debt agreements are five years with an option to extend the lease terms for two successive periods of one year each, if agreed to by the financial institutions that financed the facilities. The terms of these debt agreements began March 2000 for the Mountain View and Roseville facilities and July 2000 for the Milpitas facility. The Company has the option to purchase the three facilities for the aggregate termination value of $380.6 million or, at the end of the term, to arrange for the sale of the properties to third parties while the Company retains an obligation to the financial institutions that financed the facilities in an amount equal to the difference between the sales price and the guaranteed residual value up to an aggregate $344.6 million if the sales price is less than this amount, subject to the specific terms of the debt agreements. In addition, the Company is entitled to any proceeds from a sale of the facilities in excess of the termination values.
     
In January 2002, the Company entered into two three-year pay fixed, receive floating, interest rate swaps for the purpose of hedging the cash payments related to the Mountain View and Roseville agreements (see Note 13). Under the terms of these interest rate swaps, the Company makes payments based on the fixed rate and will receive interest payments based on the 3-month LIBOR rate. For the year ended December 31, 2004 and six months ended December 31, 2003, the aggregate payments on the debt agreements, including the net payments on the interest rate swaps, were $16.9 million and $8.5 million, respectively, and were included in interest expense in the consolidated statement of operations in accordance with FIN 46. For the six months ended June 30, 2003 and the year ended December 31, 2002, the aggregate payments were $8.3 million and $17.0 million, respectively, and were classified as rent expense and included in cost of revenue and operating expenses in the consolidated statement of operations, in accordance with SFAS No. 13.
     
The agreements for the facilities described above require that the Company maintain specified financial covenants, all of which the Company was in compliance with as of December 31, 2004. The specified financial covenants as of December 31, 2004 require the Company to maintain a minimum
 
rolling four quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") of $500.0 million, a minimum ratio of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and accounts receivable to current liabilities plus the debt consolidated under the build-to-suit lease agreements of 1.2 to 1, and a leverage ratio of total funded indebtedness to rolling four quarter EBITDA of not more than 2 to 1. For purposes of these financial covenants, EBITDA represents the Company's net income for the applicable period, plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization and all non-cash restructuring charges, less software development expenses classified as capital expenditures. In February 2005, the Company received a waiver from Bank of America, N.A. as agent for the syndicate of banks that funded the development of the Mountain View and Roseville facilities, and ABN AMRO Bank, N.V. as agent for the syndicate of banks that funded the development of the Milpitas facility with regard to certain negative covenants prohibiting a change in control and the Company's proposed merger with Symantec. In order to secure the obligation under each agreement, each of the facilities is subject to a deed of trust in favor of the financial institutions that financed the development and acquisition of the respective facility. Bank of America, N.A. was the agent for the syndicate of banks that funded the development of the Mountain View and Roseville facilities, and ABN AMRO Bank, N.V. was the agent for the syndicate of banks that funded the development of the Milpitas facility.
     
In February 2005, the Company's board of directors authorized the future purchase of the properties subject to each of the build-to-suit lease agreements. In March 2005, the Company acquired beneficial ownership of the Mountain View, California, Milpitas, California, and Roseville, Minnesota properties for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $384 million. As a result the Company's cash and debt balances will decrease by this amount.
 
     
During 2002, the Company's Japanese subsidiary entered into a short-term credit facility with a multinational Japanese bank in the amount of 1.0 billion Japanese yen ($9.6 million USD). At December 31, 2004 and 2003, no amount was outstanding. The short-term credit facility was renewed in March 2005 and is due to expire in March 2006. Borrowings under the short-term credit facility bear interest at Tokyo Inter Bank Offered Rate plus 0.5%. There are no covenants on the short-term credit facility and the loan has been guaranteed by VERITAS Software Global LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
 
     
The Company currently has operating leases for its facilities and rental equipment through 2022. Rental expense under operating leases was approximately $56.3 million, $63.3 million and $60.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, including the payments made under the Company's three build-to-suit lease agreements prior to June 30, 2003. In addition to the basic rent, the Company is responsible for all taxes, insurance and utilities related to the facilities. The following table is
 
a summary of the contractual commitments associated with the Company's operating lease obligations as of December 31, 2004:
 
     
On October 1, 2002, the Company acquired volume replicator software technology for $6.0 million and contingent payments of up to another $6.0 million based on future revenues generated by the acquired technology. The contingent payments will be paid quarterly over 40 quarters, in amounts between $150,000 and $300,000. The Company issued a promissory note payable in the principal amount of $5.0 million, representing the present value of the Company's minimum payment obligations under the purchase agreement for the acquired technology, which are payable quarterly commencing in the first quarter of 2003 and ending in the fourth quarter of 2012. The contingent payments in excess of the quarterly minimum obligations will be paid as they may become due. The outstanding balance of the note payable was $4.1 million as of December 31, 2004 and $4.6 million as of December 31, 2003 and is included in other long-term liabilities.
Note 13. Derivative Financial Instruments
     
In September 2000, the Company entered into a three-year cross currency cash flow hedge against foreign exchange fluctuations on foreign currency denominated cash flows under an intercompany loan receivable. Under the terms of this derivative financial instrument, Euro denominated fixed principal and interest payments to be received under the intercompany loan were swapped for U.S. dollar-fixed principal and interest payments. In 2003, the intercompany loan was paid in full and the derivative financial instrument was settled.
     
In January 2002, the Company entered into two three-year pay fixed, receive floating, interest rate swaps for the purpose of hedging cash flows on variable interest rate debt related to the Mountain View, California and Roseville, Minnesota build-to-suit lease agreements. Under the terms of these interest rate swaps, the Company makes payments based on the fixed rate and will receive interest payments based on 3-month LIBOR. The Company's payments on its build-to-suit lease agreements are based upon a 3-month LIBOR plus a credit spread. If critical terms of the interest rate swap or the hedged item do not change, the interest rate swap will be considered to be highly effective with all changes in the fair value included in other comprehensive income. If critical terms of the interest rate swap or the hedged item change, the hedge may become partially or fully ineffective, which could result in all or a portion of the changes in fair value of the derivative recorded in the statement of operations. The interest rate swaps settle the first day of January, April, July and October until expiration. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the fair value of the interest rate swaps was $(1.7) million and ($7.8) million, respectively, and was recorded in other long-term liabilities. As a result of entering into the interest rate swaps, the Company
 
has mitigated its exposure to variable cash flows associated with interest rate fluctuations. Because the rental payments on the leases are based on the 3-month LIBOR and the Company receives 3-month LIBOR from the interest rate swap counter-party, the Company has eliminated any impact to raising interest rates related to its rent payments under the build-to-suit lease agreements. On July 1, 2003, the Company began accounting for its variable interest rate debt in accordance with FIN 46. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, the Company had designated the interest rate swap as a cash flow hedge of the variability embedded in the rent expense as it is based on the 3-month LIBOR. However, with the adoption of FIN 46, the Company redesignated the interest rate swap as a cash flow hedge of variability in interest expense and it remains highly effective with all changes in the fair value included in other comprehensive income.
     
As of December 31, 2004, the total gross notional amount of the Company's foreign currency forward contracts was approximately $208.9 million, all of which hedge intercompany accounts, as well as non-functional currency denominated cash, cash equivalents, short-term investment and accounts receivable of certain of its international subsidiaries. The forward contracts had terms of 34 days or less and settled on January 31, 2005. All foreign currency transactions and all outstanding forward contracts are marked-to-market at the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses included in interest and other income, net. The unrealized gain (loss) on the outstanding forward contracts at December 31, 2004 was immaterial to the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
     
In July 2004, the Company's board of directors authorized a program by which the Company was authorized to repurchase up to $500.0 million of the Company's common stock over the following 12 to 18 months. During 2004, the Company repurchased 13.0 million shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $250.0 million.
 
 
     
SEC Investigation.
As previously disclosed, since the third quarter of 2002, the Company has received subpoenas issued by the Securities Exchange Commission in the investigation entitled The SEC has requested information concerning the facts and circumstances surrounding the Company's transactions with AOL Time Warner, or AOL, and related accounting and disclosure matters. The Company's transactions with AOL, entered into in September 2000, involved a software and services purchase by AOL at a stated value of $50.0 million and the purchase by the Company of advertising services from AOL at a stated value of $20.0 million. In March 2003, the Company restated its financial statements for 2001 and 2000 to reflect a reduction in revenues and expenses of $20.0 million. The restatement included an additional reduction in revenues and expenses of $1.0 million related to two other contemporaneous transactions with other parties entered into in 2000 that involved software licenses and the purchase of online advertising services. In March 2005, the SEC charged AOL with securities fraud pursuant to a complaint entitled In its complaint, the SEC described certain transactions between AOL and a "California-based software company that creates and licenses data storage software" that appears to reference the Company's transactions with AOL as described above, and alleged that AOL aided and abetted that California-based software company in violating Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Exchange Act Rule 10b-5.
In the Matter of AOL/ Time Warner.
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Time Warner, Inc.
     
In March 2004, the Company announced its intention to restate its financial statements for 2002 and 2001 and revise its previously announced financial results for 2003. The decision resulted from the findings of an investigation into past accounting practices that concluded on March 12, 2004. The investigation
 
resulted from concerns raised by an employee in late 2003, which led to a detailed review of the matter in accordance with the Company's corporate governance processes, including the reporting of the matter to the audit committee of the Company's board of directors, and to KPMG LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. The audit committee retained independent counsel to investigate issues relating to these past accounting practices, and the audit committee's counsel retained independent accountants to assist with the investigation. In the first quarter of 2004, the Company voluntarily disclosed to the staff of the SEC past accounting practices applicable to the Company's 2002 and 2001 financial statements that were not in compliance with GAAP.
     
The Company and its audit committee continue to cooperate with the SEC in its review of these matters. At this time, the Company cannot predict the outcome of the SEC's review.
 
     
After the Company announced in January 2003 that it would restate its financial results as a result of transactions entered into with AOL in September 2000, numerous separate complaints purporting to be class actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that the Company and some of our officers and directors violated provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The complaints contain varying allegations, including that the Company made materially false and misleading statements with respect to its 2000, 2001 and 2002 financial results included in its filings with the SEC, press releases and other public disclosures. On May 2, 2003, a lead plaintiff and lead counsel were appointed. A consolidated complaint entitled was filed by the lead plaintiff on July 18, 2003. On February 18, 2005, the parties filed a Stipulation of Settlement in the class action. On March 18, 2005, the Court entered an order preliminarily approving the class action settlement. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement, a $35.0 million settlement fund was established on March 25, 2005. The Company funded approximately $10.1 million of the settlement fund, which amount is obligated to be repaid to the Company by its insurance carrier on or before April 15, 2005. As of December 31, 2004, the Company has recorded a liability of $35.0 million, classified as other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet, and a corresponding receivable for the same amount, classified as other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet.
In Re VERITAS Software Corporation Securities Litigation
     
In 2003, several complaints purporting to be derivative actions were filed in California Superior Court against some of the Company's directors and officers. These complaints are generally based on the same facts and circumstances alleged in , referenced above, and allege that the named directors and officers breached their fiduciary duties by failing to oversee adequately the Company's financial reporting. The state court complaints were consolidated into the action , which was filed on May 8, 2003 in the Superior Court of Santa Clara County. On January 26, 2005, the parties to the derivative action filed a stipulation of settlement with the Superior Court and the Court entered an order approving the stipulation of settlement and dismissed the lawsuit with prejudice on February 4, 2005.
In Re VERITAS Software Corporation Securities Litigation
In Re VERITAS Software Corporation Derivative Litigation
     
On August 2, 2004, the Company received a copy of an amended complaint in in which the Company was named as a defendant. The case was originally filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in July 2003 against Time Warner (formerly, AOL Time Warner), current and former officers and directors of Time Warner and AOL, and Time Warner's outside auditor, Ernst & Young LLP. In adding the Company as a defendant, the plaintiff alleges that the Company aided and abetted AOL in alleged common law fraud and also alleges that the Company engaged in common law fraud as part of a civil conspiracy. The plaintiff seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages. On November 22, 2004, the Company filed a motion to dismiss in this action and the plaintiff filed its opposition memoranda on March 4, 2005. The motion remains pending before the Court.
Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. AOL Time Warner, et. al.
 
     
On July 7, 2004, a purported class action complaint entitled was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The lawsuit alleges violations of federal securities laws in connection with the Company's announcement on July 6, 2004 that the Company expected its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004 to fall below the Company's earlier estimates. The complaint generally seeks an unspecified amount of damages. Subsequently, additional purported class action complaints have been filed in Delaware federal court against the same defendants named in the Kuck lawsuit. These complaints are based on the same facts and circumstances as the Kuck lawsuit. On July 19, 2004, defendants filed a motion to transfer venue from Delaware to the Northern District of California. The Court denied the motion on January 14, 2005, and denied the Company's motion for reconsideration of denial of transfer on March 2, 2005.
Paul Kuck, et al. v. VERITAS Software Corporation, et al.
     
On December 17, 2004, a purported class action complaint entitled , was filed in California Superior Court against the Company's board of directors. The lawsuit alleged that defendants breached their fiduciary duty by approving the merger agreement the Company entered into with Symantec because they were allegedly motivated to obtain indemnification agreements from Symantec in connection with the Kuck securities class action described above. The complaint generally sought an unspecified amount of damages. Subsequently, an additional purported class action complaint was filed in California state court against the same defendants named in the Drotzman lawsuit. This complaint was based on the same set of facts and circumstances as the Drotzman lawsuit. On January 3, 2005, defendants filed demurrers to both complaints requesting they be dismissed by the Court. On February 15, 2005, plaintiffs filed a request for dismissal without prejudice with the Court, which request was granted by the Court on the same date.
Daniel Drotzman, et. al., v. Gary Bloom, et. al.
     
The foregoing cases that have not been settled or dismissed are still in the preliminary stages, and it is not possible for the Company to quantify the extent of its potential liability, if any. An unfavorable outcome in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, defending any litigation may be costly and divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of the Company's business.
     
In addition to the legal proceedings listed above, the Company is also party to various other legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. While the Company currently believe that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position or overall trends in results of operations, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows for the period in which the ruling occurs. The estimate of the potential impact on the Company's financial position or overall results of operations for the above discussed legal proceedings could change in the future.
 
     
The Company has adopted a retirement savings plan qualified under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, which is a pretax savings plan covering substantially all United States employees. Under the plan, employees may contribute up to 20% of their pretax salary, subject to certain limitations. Employees are eligible to participate beginning the first day of the month following their date of hire. The Company matches approximately 50% of the employee contributions up to $2,500 per year and contributed approximately $8.1 million, $7.0 million and $6.9 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company has established a deferred compensation plan for certain eligible employees whereby the employee can defer a portion of their cash compensation on a pre-tax basis to an investment account. The Company has classified the investments in the deferred compensation plan as trading and, accordingly records an asset and corresponding liability related to the investments held and obligation to the employee. Changes in the fair value of the asset and liability are recorded in the statement of operations. As of
 
December 31, 2004 and 2003, the asset and liability relating to the deferred compensation plan was $11.6 million and $8.7 million, respectively. The asset is classified in other non-current assets and the liability is classified in other long-term liabilities in the balance sheet.
 
 
     
The components of accumulated other comprehensive income are:
 
     
On October 4, 1998, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan, declaring a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company. The rights are initially attached to the Company's common stock and will not trade separately. If a person or group acquires 15% or more of the Company's common stock, or announces an intention to make a tender offer for the Company's common stock the consummation of which would result in acquiring 15% or more of the Company's common stock, then the rights will be distributed and will then trade separately from the common stock. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company. The rights expire October 5, 2008, unless the expiration date is extended or unless the rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company. In connection with the Company's pending merger with Symantec (the "Merger"), the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as Rights Agent, entered into an amendment, dated as of December 15, 2004 (the "Rights Amendment"), to the Stockholder Rights Plan. The effect of the Rights Amendment is to permit the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement with Symantec to occur without triggering any distribution or adverse event under the Rights Agreement.
     
The Company is authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock. No such preferred shares have been issued to date.
 
     
During 2004, the Company had two stock option plans: the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2003 Plan") and the 2002 Directors Stock Option Plan (the "Director Plan"). The Company's 1993 Equity Incentive Plan (the "1993 Plan") expired after the approval by the Company's stockholders on May 13, 2003 of the 2003 Plan. As of December 31, 2004, options for approximately 43,901,205 shares of common stock remained outstanding under the 1993 Plan. The 2003 Plan provides for the issuance of incentive or nonstatutory stock options and common stock to employees and consultants of the Company. As of December 31, 2004, the Company granted 503,250 restricted stock units under the 2003 Plan, of which 34,278 shares were issued and 15,723 shares were withheld for payment of taxes. During 2004, the Company granted options under the 2003 Plan for approximately 10,342,259 shares of common stock. The options generally are granted at the fair market value of the Company's common stock at the date of
 
grant, vest over a four-year period and are exercisable immediately upon vesting. During 2004, the Company's stockholders approved several amendments to the 2003 Plan effective May 13, 2004, including a reduction in the option term from 10 to 7 years from the date of grant and an increase in the options available for grant by 18,000,000 shares. The Company's Director Plan provides for the issuance of stock options to directors of the Company. These options generally are granted at the fair market value of the Company's common stock at the date of grant, expire 10 years from the date of grant, vest over a four-year period and are exercisable immediately upon vesting. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had reserved 32.0 million shares of common stock for issuance under the 2003 Plan and 1.9 million shares for issuance under the Director Plan. As of December 31, 2004, 19.6 million shares were available for future grant under the plans.
     
A summary of the status of the Company's stock option plans as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and changes during the years ended on those dates is presented:
     
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2004:
 
 
     
During 2004, the Company had two employee stock purchase plans (the "Purchase Plans"): the 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2002 Purchase Plan") and the 2002 International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "International Purchase Plan"), which is a subplan of the 2002 Purchase Plan. Under the Purchase Plans, the Company is authorized to issue up to 23.1 million shares of common stock to its full-time employees, nearly all of whom are eligible to participate. The employees participating in the Purchase Plans can choose to have up to 10% of their wages withheld to purchase the Company's common stock. The Purchase Plans consist of two-year offerings with four 6-month purchase periods in each offering period. The purchase price of the stock is 85% of the lower of the subscription date fair market value or the end of the purchase period fair market value.
     
The number of eligible employees that participated in the Purchase Plans was 4,366 in 2004, 3,745 in 2003 and 3,682 in 2002. Under the Purchase Plans, the Company issued 2.5 million shares to employees in 2004, 2.1 million in 2003 and 1.5 million in 2002. The weighted-average purchase price of these shares was $15.43 in 2004, $15.03 in 2003 and $20.79 in 2002.
 
     
Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle consisted of:
     
The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:
     
The tax benefits associated with employee stock option and employee stock purchase plan activity reduced taxes currently payable by $45.5 million for 2004, $38.3 million for 2003 and $19.6 million for 2002.
 
     
The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the federal statutory rate as follows:
     
Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets are as follows:
     
As of December 31, 2002, deferred and other income taxes payable recorded in connection with the Seagate transaction totaled $134.4 million and related to certain tax liabilities that the Company expected to pay, other current assets included $21.3 million of indemnification receivable from SAC and other non-current assets included $18.0 million of indemnification receivable from SAC. Certain of Seagate's federal and state tax returns for various fiscal years were under examination by taxing authorities. On March 15, 2004, the Company was notified that the federal tax audits for all periods ended with the date of the transaction had been completed and all tax liabilities had been settled, which resulted in a net federal tax refund, which the Company distributed to a trust for the benefit of the former Seagate stockholders. Accordingly, the Company reversed the indemnification receivable of $39.3 million and income taxes payable of $134.4 million, resulting in a net income tax benefit of $95.1 million. The benefit was recorded as a credit to income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
     
The valuation allowance decreased by $18.9 million in 2004 and increased by $7.8 million in 2003. The valuation allowance has been established due to uncertainties related to the Company's ability to generate sufficient taxable income in specific geographical and jurisdictional locations, the Company's future taxable income from capital gains and net operating losses from acquired companies that may be subject to significant annual limitation under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
     
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had federal tax loss carryforwards of approximately $145.7 million (related to acquisitions) and federal tax credit carryforwards of approximately $2.2 million. The federal tax loss carryforwards will expire in 2005 through 2023, and federal tax credit carryforwards will expire in 2005 through 2024, if not utilized. The Company had state tax loss carryforwards in multiple jurisdictions with various expiration dates. The Company had state tax credit carryforwards of approximately $46.1 million, substantially all of which may be carried forward indefinitely. Because of the change in ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, a portion of the Company's net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be subject to annual limitation, which may result in the expiration of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before utilization. In addition, the Company had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $32.3 million that may be carried forward indefinitely.
     
As of December 31, 2004, the Company believes that it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the net deferred tax assets.
     
On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act ("the AJCA") was signed into law. The AJCA includes a deduction of 85% of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, as defined in the AJCA. The Company may elect to apply this provision to qualifying earnings repatriations in either the year ended December 31, 2004 or 2005. The Company has not elected to apply the provision for the year ended December 31, 2004.
     
The Company has started an evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision; however, the Company does not expect to be able to complete this evaluation until after Congress or the Treasury Department provide additional clarifying language on key elements of the provision. In January 2005, the Treasury Department began to issue the first of a series of clarifying guidance documents related to this provision. The Company expects to complete its evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision within a reasonable period of time following the publication of the additional clarifying language.
     
Based on the amount of eligible foreign earnings as of December 31, 2004, the range of possible amounts that the Company is considering for repatriation under this provision is between zero and $359 million. The related potential range of income tax that would be payable as a result of the repatriation is between zero and $30 million.
     
The Company has not provided federal or state income taxes on approximately $359 million of cumulative unremitted foreign earnings of certain of its international subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004, since it intends to indefinitely reinvest such earnings. As of December 31, 2004, the unrecognized deferred tax liability with respect to such earnings was approximately $81 million.
     
The Company has been notified by the Internal Revenue Service of its intention to examine the Company's federal income tax return for the year ended December 31, 2000. The Company has ongoing tax audits in a number of jurisdictions in which it does business.
 
 
     
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share:
     
For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, potential common shares consist of employee stock options using the treasury stock method. The following table sets forth the potential common shares that were excluded from the net income per share computations:
     
The weighted average exercise prices of employee stock options with exercise prices exceeding the average fair value of the Company's common stock was $55.05, $63.58 and $64.59 per share for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
     
The Company operates in one segment, storage and infrastructure software solutions. The Company's products and services are sold throughout the world, both directly to end-users and through a variety of indirect sales channels. The Company's chief operating decision maker, the chief executive officer, evaluates the performance of the Company based upon stand-alone revenue of product channels and the geographic regions of the segment and does not receive discrete financial information about asset allocation, expense allocation or profitability from the Company's storage products or services.
 
 
     
In 2004, 2003 and 2002, no end-user customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's net revenue. In 2004 and 2003, no distributor accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total net revenue. In 2002, a distributor that sells the Company's products and services through resellers, accounted for 11% of the Company's total net revenue.
 
     
The Company markets and distributes its software products both as stand-alone software products and as integrated product suites, also referenced as application solutions. The Company derives its user license fees from the licensing of its technology, segregated into three product areas: Data Protection, which include its NetBackup, Backup Exec and Enterprise Vault product families; Storage Management, which
 
includes its Storage Foundation, Replicator and storage resource management product families; and Utility Computing Infrastructure, which includes its Cluster Server, CommandCentral, OpForce and i(3) product families. User license fees by product area were as follows:

 
Exhibit 99.2
     Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, controls may become inadequate because of changes to the sources of our financial reporting risk or due to changes in our ability to design and effectively operate controls commensurate with our areas of risk.
     Our management has made an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. Management based its assessment on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
     Based on this assessment, our management has identified deficiencies in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that resulted in errors in accounting for software revenue recognition and concluded that, in the aggregate, these deficiencies constitute a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, as described below. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, as defined in Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2 or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected by company personnel in the normal course of performing their assigned functions.
     As of December 31, 2004, we did not maintain adequate review procedures requiring validation by qualified personnel of information included in manual customer orders for software products and services to ensure that this information was accurately entered into our order processing system and to ensure revenue recognition in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Manual Order Entry Processes.
     As of December 31, 2004, we did not maintain adequate review procedures to ensure that multiple-element software arrangements and other related software revenue recognition requirements were accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Software Revenue Recognition Review.
     Because of the material weakness described above, management has concluded the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in issued by the COSO.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
     Our independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, audited management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. KPMG LLP has issued an attestation report thereon, which is included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

 
Exhibit 99.3
     
The condensed consolidated financial statements of VERITAS Software Corporation (referred to in this exhibit as the "Company") for the three months ended March 31, 2005 are provided in this exhibit. The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this exhibit are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
     
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for annual financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. The following information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in VERITAS Software Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
     
On December 16, 2004, VERITAS and Symantec Corporation announced that the companies had entered into a definitive agreement (the "Agreement") to merge in an all-stock transaction. Under the Agreement, which has been unanimously approved by both boards of directors, all of the Company's stock will be converted into Symantec stock at a fixed exchange ratio of 1.1242 shares of Symantec common stock for each outstanding share of VERITAS common stock. Upon closing, Symantec stockholders will own approximately 60 percent and VERITAS stockholders will own approximately 40 percent of the combined company. Completion of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions that include receipt of required approvals from the stockholders of the Company and Symantec and receipt of required regulatory approvals. The transaction may not be completed if any of the conditions are not satisfied.
     
Under terms specified in the Agreement, VERITAS or Symantec may terminate the Agreement, and as a result either VERITAS or Symantec may be required to pay a $440 million termination fee to the other party in certain circumstances. Either Symantec or VERITAS may terminate the Agreement if the merger has not closed by June 30, 2005, as long as the terminating party has not caused the delay in closing by not complying with a term of the Agreement.
 
     
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
     
The Company accounts for employee stock-based compensation in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, , and related interpretations, and the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 148, . Since the exercise price of options granted under the Company's stock option plans is equal to the market value on the date of grant, no compensation cost has been recognized for grants under such plans. In accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, the Company does not recognize compensation cost related to its employee stock purchase plan. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense in connection with stock options assumed in acquisitions and its grants of restricted stock units over the applicable service period which is generally equal to the vesting period. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and net income per share if the Company had
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure  an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123
 
accounted for its stock option and stock purchase plans under the fair value method of accounting under SFAS No. 123, :
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
     
For the pro forma amounts determined under SFAS No. 123, as set forth above, the fair value of each stock option grant under the stock option plans is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for grants:
     
The fair value of the employees' purchase rights under the employee stock purchase plan is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions for these rights:
 
     
In 2004, the Company granted restricted stock units to certain employees resulting in stock-based compensation expense of $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and none for the three months ended March 31, 2004. The compensation expense related to the restricted stock units is charged to the statement of operations over the vesting period, which is 3 to 4 years.
     
As a result of the Company's restatement of its financial statements for 2002 and 2001 and the delay in filing its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company suspended option-holders' ability to use the Company's registration statements for its stock option plans (the "Plans"). As a result, option-holders were unable to exercise options under the Plans until such time as the Company filed its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and lifted the suspension on the use of the registration statements. Pursuant to the terms of the Plans, options held by certain former employees of the Company were scheduled to expire during the suspension period. On March 15, 2004, the Company extended the expiration date of such options for a period of 15 days from the date of filing the Form 10-K, which was considered a modification of such options. For the three months ended March 31, 2004, $4.3 million was expensed in the statement of operations as a result of this modification.
 
     
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share:
     
For the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, potential common shares consist of employee stock options using the treasury stock method. The following table sets forth the potential common shares that were excluded from the net income per share computations:
 
     
The weighted average exercise prices of employee stock options with exercise prices exceeding the average fair value of the Company's common stock was $52.63 and $68.49 per share for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
 
     
On April 15, 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of DataCenterTechnologies NV ("DCT"), a privately held Belgian Company. The Company acquired DCT to extend centralized data protection to remote office locations of enterprise customers. The DCT acquisition included total purchase consideration of approximately $58 million, which included $57 million of cash and $1 million of acquisition-related costs. The results of operations of DCT will be included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.
 
     
On September 20, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of KVault Software Limited ("KVS"), a provider of e-mail archiving products. The Company acquired KVS to extend its storage software market to include products to store, manage, backup and archive corporate e-mail and data. The KVS acquisition included total purchase consideration of $249.2 million which included $224.1 million of cash, $19.6 million relating to the assumption of KVS' outstanding unvested stock options for 1.2 million shares of the Company's common stock and $5.5 million of acquisition-related costs. The purchase price was allocated to goodwill of $144.4 million, developed technology of $54.3 million, customer base of $18.1 million, other intangible assets of $2.6 million, in-process research and development ("IPR&D") of $11.5 million, net tangible assets of $1.1 million and deferred stock-based compensation of $17.2 million. The Company does not expect future adjustments to the purchase price or purchase price allocation to be material. The weighted average amortization period for all purchased intangibles is 5.0 years.
     
Acquisition-related costs of $5.5 million consist of $2.2 million associated with legal and other professional fees, $2.1 million for terminating and satisfying existing lease commitments, $0.1 million of severance related costs and $1.1 million of government taxes associated with the acquisition. Costs associated with terminating and satisfying existing lease commitments will be paid over the remaining lease terms ending in 2006 through 2015 or over a shorter period as the Company may negotiate with its lessors. The Company expects the majority of costs will be paid by the year ending December 31, 2008. Total cash outlays for acquisition-related costs were approximately $3.2 million for professional fees and government taxes through March 31, 2005.
     
The results of operations of KVS are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from September 21, 2004. The pro forma results of operations disclosed below give effect to the acquisition of KVS as if the acquisition was consummated on January 1, 2004.
 
     
On July 14, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Invio Software, Inc. ("Invio"), a privately held supplier of information technology ("IT") process automation technology. The
 
Company acquired Invio to extend the capability of software products that enable utility computing by offering customers a tool for standardizing and automating IT service delivery in key areas such as storage provisioning, server provisioning and data protection. The Invio acquisition included purchase consideration of approximately $35.4 million which included $34.9 million in cash and $0.5 million of acquisition-related costs. The purchase price was allocated to goodwill of $22.8 million, developed technology of $7.7 million, net deferred tax assets of $4.6 million and net tangible assets of $0.3 million. The amortization period for the developed technology is 4.0 years. Acquisition-related costs consist of $0.5 million for legal and other professional fees, all of which have been paid. The results of operations of Invio were included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The pro forma impact of the acquisition on the Company's results of operations is not significant.
 
     
On January 20, 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Ejasent, Inc. ("Ejasent"), a privately held provider of application virtualization technology for utility computing. The Company acquired Ejasent to add important application migration technology, which allows IT personnel to move an application from one server to another without disrupting or terminating the application, to the Company's growing utility computing portfolio. The Ejasent acquisition included purchase consideration of $61.2 million, with $47.8 million in cash and $13.4 million of acquisition-related costs. The purchase price was allocated to goodwill of $33.0 million, developed technology of $10.2 million, other intangibles of $1.9 million, IPR&D of $0.4 million, net deferred tax assets of $15.9 million and net tangible liabilities of $0.2 million. The weighted average amortization period for all purchased intangible assets is 4.4 years. Acquisition-related costs consist of $11.2 million of change in control bonuses and direct transaction costs of $2.2 million for legal and other professional fees, all of which have been paid. The results of operations of Ejasent were included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The pro forma impact of the acquisition on the Company's results of operations is not significant.
 
     
The results of operations of KVS are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The following table presents pro forma results of operations and gives effect to the acquisition of KVS as if the acquisition was consummated on January 1, 2004. The unaudited pro forma results of operations are not necessarily indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition been made as of the beginning of the period or of the results that may occur in the future. Net income excludes the write-off of acquired IPR&D of $11.5 million and includes amortization of intangible assets per quarter of $3.7 million. Net income also includes amortization of deferred compensation per quarter of $2.0 million. The unaudited pro forma information is as follows:
 
 
     
On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142. As a result, the Company no longer amortizes goodwill but will test it for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
     
The following table sets forth the carrying amount of goodwill. Goodwill also includes amounts originally allocated to assembled workforce (in thousands):
     
The following tables set forth the carrying amount of other intangible assets that will continue to be amortized, including the impact of exchange rates:
 
     
The total amortization expense related to developed technology and other intangible assets is set forth in the table below:
     
For the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, total amortization expense for intangible assets includes $1.2 million and $0.5 million, respectively, that was included in cost of user license fees.
     
The total expected future annual amortization of intangible assets related to acquisitions is set forth in the table below:
     
For the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, amortization of the convertible subordinated notes issuance costs of $1.1 million and $1.0 million, respectively, was included in interest expense. The expected future annual amortization of the convertible subordinated notes issuance costs is $3.2 million for the remainder of 2005 and $2.5 million for 2006.
 
     
The Company holds investments in capital stock of privately-held companies. The total carrying amount of these strategic investments was $2.7 million as of March 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. These strategic investments are included in other non-current assets. During the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company realized gains of $0.7 million and $7.5 million, respectively, related to its strategic investments. Other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of the Company's strategic investments are determined based on the value of the investee's stock, its inability to obtain additional private financing, its cash position and current burn rate, the status and competitive position of the investee's products and the uncertainty of its financial condition among other factors. The Company recorded no impairment losses on strategic investments for the three months ended March 31, 2005 or 2004.
 
     
In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company's board of directors approved a facility restructuring plan to exit and consolidate certain of the Company's facilities located in 17 metropolitan areas worldwide. The
 
facility restructuring plan was adopted to address overcapacity in its facilities as a result of lower than planned headcount growth in these metropolitan areas. In connection with this facility restructuring plan, the Company recorded a net restructuring charge (the "2002 Facility Accrual") to operating expenses of $96.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2002. The 2002 Facility Accrual was originally comprised of (i) $86.9 million associated with terminating and satisfying remaining lease commitments, partially offset by sublease income net of related sublease costs and (ii) write-offs of $9.2 million for net assets.
     
In the third quarter of 2004, the Company acquired KVS and, as a result, reversed $9.6 million, net, of the 2002 Facility Accrual related to previously restructured facilities to be occupied by KVS personnel. As of March 31, 2005, the remaining balance of the 2002 Facility Accrual was $49.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2005, cash outlays of $3.0 million and the impact of foreign exchange rates of $0.3 million were recognized. Restructuring costs will be paid over the remaining lease terms, ending at various dates through 2022, or over a shorter period as the Company may negotiate with its lessors. The majority of costs are expected to be paid by the year ending December 31, 2010.
     
The Company is in the process of seeking suitable subtenants for these facilities. The estimates related to the 2002 Facility Accrual may vary significantly depending, in part, on factors that are beyond the Company's control, including the commercial real estate market in the applicable metropolitan areas, its ability to obtain subleases related to these facilities and the time period to do so, the sublease rental market rates and the outcome of negotiations with lessors regarding terminations of some of the leases. Adjustments to the 2002 Facility Accrual will be made if actual lease exit costs or sublease income differ materially from amounts currently expected. Because a portion of the 2002 Facility Accrual relates to international locations, the accrual will be affected by exchange rate fluctuations.
     
As of March 31, 2005, accrued acquisition and restructuring costs consisted of the 2002 Facility Accrual discussed above, acquisition-related costs discussed in Note 6 and other accrued acquisition and restructuring charges incurred from 1999 through 2004, net of cash payments made.
     
The components of accrued acquisition and restructuring costs and movements within these components through March 31, 2005 were as follows:
 
     
In August 2003, the Company issued $520.0 million of 0.25% convertible subordinated notes due August 1, 2013 ("0.25% Notes") for which the Company received net proceeds of approximately $508.2 million, to several initial purchasers in a private offering. The 0.25% Notes were issued at their face value and provide for semi-annual interest payments of $0.7 million each February 1 and August 1, beginning February 1, 2004. Effective as of January 28, 2004, the 0.25% Notes began accruing additional interest at a rate of 0.25% as a result of the Company's registration statement having not been declared effective by the SEC on or before the 180th day following the original issuance of the 0.25% Notes and the 0.25% Notes continued to accrue additional interest at that rate until April 27, 2004, the 90th day following such registration default. On April 28, 2004, the 0.25% Notes began to accrue additional interest
 
at a rate of 0.50% per annum and continued to accrue such additional interest until November 23, 2004, the day prior to the date on which the registration statement was declared effective. Effective as of January 30, 2005, the 0.25% Notes began to accrue additional interest at a rate of 0.25% per annum as a result of the Company's registration statement having been suspended by the Company beyond its permitted grace period. The 0.25% Notes accrued additional interest at this rate until April 30, 2005. On May 1, 2005, the 0.25% Notes began to accrue additional interest at a rate of 0.50% per annum and will continue to accrue additional interest at this rate until the suspension of the registration statement is lifted or until the Company is no longer required to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement. The 0.25% Notes are convertible, under specified circumstances, into shares of the Company's common stock at a conversion rate of 21.6802 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $46.13 per share. Pursuant to the terms of a supplemental indenture dated as of October 25, 2004, the Company will be required to deliver cash to holders upon conversion, except to the extent that its conversion obligation exceeds the principal amount of the notes converted, in which case, the Company will have the option to satisfy the excess (and only the excess) in cash and/or shares of common stock.
     
The conversion rate of the 0.25% Notes is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. The specified circumstances under which the 0.25% Notes are convertible prior to maturity are: (1) during any quarterly conversion period (which periods begin on the eleventh trading day of each fiscal quarter and end on the eleventh trading day of the following fiscal quarter) prior to August 1, 2010, if the closing sale price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 trading day period ending on the first day of such conversion period exceeds 120% of the conversion price of the notes on that first day, (2) during the period beginning August 1, 2010 through the maturity date of the notes, if the closing sale price of the Company's common stock is more than 120% of the then current conversion price, (3) during the five consecutive business day period following any five consecutive trading day period in which the average of the trading prices for the 0.25% Notes was less than 95% of the average of the sale price of the Company's common stock multiplied by the then current conversion rate of the notes, (4) the Company's corporate credit rating assigned by Standard & Poor's falls below B- (and if Moody's has assigned a corporate credit rating to the Company and such rating is lower than B3) or if both such ratings are withdrawn, (5) the Company calls the notes for redemption or (6) upon the occurrence of corporate transactions specified in the indenture governing the notes (including, for the 15 days prior to the anticipated closing date of a merger, consolidation or similar transaction and the 15 days after the date of closing of such transaction), at the option of the holder, the 0.25% Notes are convertible in accordance with the applicable terms. On or after August 5, 2006, the Company has the option to redeem all or a portion of the 0.25% Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On August 1, 2006 and August 1, 2008, or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change involving the Company, holders of the 0.25% Notes may require the Company to repurchase their notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
 
     
In 1999 and 2000, the Company entered into three build-to-suit lease agreements for office buildings in Mountain View, California, Roseville, Minnesota and Milpitas, California. The Company began occupying the Roseville and Mountain View facilities in May and June 2001, respectively, and began occupying the Milpitas facility in April 2003. Prior to July 1, 2003, the Company accounted for these properties as operating leases in accordance with SFAS No. 13, as amended. On July 1, 2003, the Company adopted FIN 46. Under FIN 46, the lessors of the facilities are considered variable interest entities, and the Company was considered the primary beneficiary. Accordingly, the Company began consolidating these variable interest entities on July 1, 2003 and included the property and
Accounting for Leases,
 
equipment and related debt on its balance sheet and the results of operations in its consolidated statement of operations from July 1, 2003. In March 2005, the Company acquired these properties for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $384 million, which included approximately $3 million for accrued interest. As of March 31, 2005, there was no remaining debt balance related to these properties.
     
In January 2002, the Company entered into two three-year pay fixed, receive floating, interest rate swaps for the purpose of hedging the cash payments related to the Mountain View and Roseville agreements. Under the terms of these interest rate swaps, the Company made payments based on the fixed rate and received interest payments based on the 3-month LIBOR rate. For the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, the aggregate payments on the debt agreements, including the net payments on the interest rate swaps, were $3.5 million and $4.0 million, respectively, and were included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations in accordance with FIN 46. In connection with the purchase of the properties described above, the Company settled the interest rate swaps in March 2005 with no impact to the statement of operations.
 
     
The following are the components of comprehensive income:
     
The components of accumulated other comprehensive income are:
 
     
As of March 31, 2005, the total gross notional amount of the Company's foreign currency forward contracts was approximately $207.7 million, all of which hedge intercompany accounts, as well as non-functional currency denominated cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and accounts receivable of certain of its international subsidiaries. The forward contracts had terms of 31 days or less and settled on April 29, 2005. All foreign currency transactions and all outstanding forward contracts are marked-to-market at the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses included in interest and other income, net. The unrealized gain (loss) on the outstanding forward contracts at March 31, 2005 was immaterial to the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
 
     
During 2002, the Company's Japanese subsidiary entered into a short-term credit facility with a multinational Japanese bank in the amount of 1.0 billion Japanese yen ($9.3 million USD). At March 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, no amount was outstanding. The short-term credit facility was renewed in March 2005 and is due to expire in March 2006. Borrowings under the short-term credit facility bear interest at Tokyo Inter Bank Offered Rate plus 0.5%. There are no covenants on the short-term credit facility and the loan has been guaranteed by VERITAS Software Global LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
 
 
     
On October 1, 2002, the Company acquired volume replicator software technology for $6.0 million and contingent payments of up to another $6.0 million based on future revenues generated by the acquired technology. The contingent payments will be paid quarterly over 40 quarters, in amounts between $150,000 and $300,000. The Company issued a promissory note payable in the principal amount of $5.0 million, representing the present value of the Company's minimum payment obligations under the purchase agreement for the acquired technology, which are payable quarterly commencing in the first quarter of 2003 and ending in the fourth quarter of 2012. The contingent payments in excess of the quarterly minimum obligations will be paid as they may become due. The outstanding balance of the note payable was $4.0 million as of March 31, 2005 and $4.1 million as of December 31, 2004 and is included in other long-term liabilities.
 
     
SEC Investigation.
Since the third quarter of 2002, the Company has received subpoenas issued by the Securities Exchange Commission in the investigation entitled The SEC has requested information concerning the facts and circumstances surrounding the Company's transactions with AOL Time Warner ("AOL") and related accounting and disclosure matters. The Company's transactions with AOL, entered into in September 2000, involved a software and services purchase by AOL at a stated value of $50.0 million and the purchase by the Company of advertising services from AOL at a stated value of $20.0 million. In March 2003, the Company restated its financial statements for 2001 and 2000 to reflect a reduction in revenues and expenses of $20.0 million. The restatement included an additional reduction in revenues and expenses of $1.0 million related to two other contemporaneous transactions with other parties entered into in 2000 that involved software licenses and the purchase of online advertising services. In March 2005, the SEC charged AOL with securities fraud pursuant to a complaint entitled In its complaint, the SEC described certain transactions between AOL and a "California-based software company that creates and licenses data storage software" that appears to reference the Company's transactions with AOL as described above, and alleged that AOL aided and abetted that California-based software company in violating Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Exchange Act Rule 10b-5.
In the Matter of AOL/Time Warner.
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Time Warner, Inc.
     
In March 2004, the Company announced its intention to restate its financial statements for 2002 and 2001 and revise its previously announced financial results for 2003. The decision resulted from the findings of an investigation into past accounting practices that concluded on March 12, 2004. The investigation resulted from concerns raised by an employee in late 2003, which led to a detailed review of the matter in accordance with the Company's corporate governance processes, including the reporting of the matter to the audit committee of the Company's board of directors, and to KPMG LLP, the Company's
 
independent registered public accounting firm. The audit committee retained independent counsel to investigate issues relating to these past accounting practices, and the audit committee's counsel retained independent accountants to assist with the investigation. In the first quarter of 2004, the Company voluntarily disclosed to the staff of the SEC past accounting practices applicable to the Company's 2002 and 2001 financial statements that were not in compliance with GAAP.
     
The Company and its audit committee continue to cooperate with the SEC in the SEC's investigation and review of these matters. The Company is in discussions with the staff of the SEC regarding the SEC's review of these matters, and based on recent communications with the staff, the Company expects these discussions to result in a settlement with the SEC in which the Company would be enjoined from future violations of certain provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and required to pay a $30 million penalty. The Company would be unable to deduct the $30 million penalty for income tax purposes, be reimbursed or indemnified for such payment through insurance or any other source, or use the payment to setoff or reduce any award of compensatory damages to plaintiffs in related securities litigation. Final settlement with the SEC would be subject to agreement on final terms and documentation, approval by the Company's board of directors and approval by the SEC Commissioners. Given that the expected settlement is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company has recorded a charge of $30 million classified as general and administrative expense in the statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2005. There is a corresponding accrual recorded in other current liabilities in the Company's balance sheet as of March 31, 2005.
 
     
After the Company announced in January 2003 that it would restate its financial results as a result of transactions entered into with AOL in September 2000, numerous separate complaints purporting to be class actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that the Company and some of its officers and directors violated provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The complaints contain varying allegations, including that the Company made materially false and misleading statements with respect to the Company's 2000, 2001 and 2002 financial results included in its filings with the SEC, press releases and other public disclosures. On May 2, 2003, a lead plaintiff and lead counsel were appointed. A consolidated complaint entitled was filed by the lead plaintiff on July 18, 2003. On February 18, 2005, the parties filed a Stipulation of Settlement in the class action. On March 18, 2005, the Court entered an order preliminarily approving the class action settlement. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement, a $35.0 million settlement fund was established on March 25, 2005. The Company's insurance carriers funded $24.9 million of the settlement fund, and the Company funded $10.1 million of the settlement fund, which one of the Company's insurance companies was obligated to repay to the Company on or before April 15, 2005. The Company was repaid the $10.1 million as of April 11, 2005.
In Re VERITAS Software Corporation Securities Litigation
     
In 2003, several complaints purporting to be derivative actions were filed in California Superior Court against some of the Company's directors and officers. These complaints are generally based on the same facts and circumstances alleged in referenced above, and allege that the named directors and officers breached their fiduciary duties by failing to oversee adequately the Company's financial reporting. The state court complaints were consolidated into the action which was filed on May 8, 2003 in the Superior Court of Santa Clara County. On January 26, 2005, the parties to the derivative action filed a stipulation of settlement with the Superior Court and the Court entered an order approving the stipulation of settlement and dismissed the lawsuit with prejudice on February 4, 2005.
In Re VERITAS Software Corporation Securities Litigation,
In Re VERITAS Software Corporation Derivative Litigation,
 
     
On August 2, 2004, the Company received a copy of an amended complaint in in which the Company was named as a defendant. The case was originally filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in July 2003 against Time Warner (formerly, AOL Time Warner), current and former officers and directors of Time Warner and AOL, and Time Warner's outside auditor, Ernst & Young LLP. In adding the Company as a defendant, the plaintiff alleges that the Company aided and abetted AOL in alleged common law fraud and also alleges that the Company engaged in common law fraud as part of a civil conspiracy. The plaintiff seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages. On November 22, 2004, the Company filed a motion to dismiss in this action and the plaintiff filed its opposition memoranda on March 4, 2005. The motion remains pending before the Court.
Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. AOL Time Warner, et. al.
     
On July 7, 2004, a purported class action complaint entitled was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The lawsuit alleges violations of federal securities laws in connection with the Company's announcement on July 6, 2004 that the Company expected its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004 to fall below the Company's earlier estimates. The complaint generally seeks an unspecified amount of damages. Subsequently, additional purported class action complaints have been filed in Delaware federal court against the same defendants named in the Kuck lawsuit. These complaints are based on the same facts and circumstances as the Kuck lawsuit. On July 19, 2004, defendants filed a motion to transfer venue from Delaware to the Northern District of California. The Court denied the motion on January 14, 2005, and denied the Company's motion for reconsideration of denial of transfer on March 2, 2005.
Paul Kuck, et al. v. VERITAS Software Corporation, et al.
     
On December 17, 2004, a purported class action complaint entitled , was filed in California Superior Court against the Company's board of directors. The lawsuit alleged that defendants breached their fiduciary duty by approving the merger agreement the Company entered into with Symantec because they were allegedly motivated to obtain indemnification agreements from Symantec in connection with the Kuck securities class action described above. The complaint generally sought an unspecified amount of damages. Subsequently, an additional purported class action complaint was filed in California state court against the same defendants named in the Drotzman lawsuit. This complaint was based on the same set of facts and circumstances as the Drotzman lawsuit. On January 3, 2005, defendants filed demurrers to both complaints requesting they be dismissed by the Court. On February 15, 2005, plaintiffs filed a request for dismissal without prejudice with the Court, which request was granted by the Court on the same date.
Daniel Drotzman, et. al., v. Gary Bloom, et. al.
     
The foregoing cases that have not been settled or dismissed are still in the preliminary stages, and it is not possible for the Company to quantify the extent of its potential liability, if any. An unfavorable outcome in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, defending any litigation may be costly and divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of the Company's business.
     
In addition to the legal proceedings listed above, the Company is also party to various other legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. While the Company currently believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position or overall trends in results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows for the period in which the ruling occurs. The estimate of the potential impact on the Company's financial position or overall results of operations for the above discussed legal proceedings could change in the future.
 
 
     
The Company operates in one segment, storage and infrastructure software solutions. The Company's products and services are sold throughout the world, both directly to end-users and through a variety of indirect sales channels. The Company's chief operating decision maker, the chief executive officer, evaluates the performance of the Company based upon stand-alone revenue of product channels and the geographic regions of the segment and does not receive discrete financial information about asset allocation, expense allocation or profitability from the Company's storage products or services.
 
 
     
For the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, no end-user customer or distributor accounted for more than 10% of the Company's net revenue.
 
     
The Company markets and distributes its software products both as stand-alone software products and as integrated product suites, also referred to as application solutions. The Company derives its user license fees from the licensing of its technology, segregated into three product areas: Data Protection, which include its NetBackup, Backup Exec and Enterprise Vault product families; Storage Management, which includes its Storage Foundation, Replicator and storage resource management product families; and Utility Computing Infrastructure, which includes its Cluster Server, CommandCentral, OpForce and i product families. User license fees by product area were as follows:
3

 
Exhibit 99.4
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2005 and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the year ended March 31, 2005 and the three months ended June 30, 2005 are based on the historical financial statements of Symantec and VERITAS after giving effect to Symantec's acquisition of VERITAS using the purchase method of accounting and applying the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
     Symantec and VERITAS have different fiscal year ends. Accordingly, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet combines Symantec's historical condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2005 with VERITAS' historical condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2005, giving effect to the merger as if it had occurred on June 30, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2005 combines Symantec's historical consolidated statement of income for the year then ended with VERITAS' historical consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the three months ended June 30, 2005 combines Symantec's historical condensed consolidated statement of income for the three months ended June 30, 2005 with VERITAS' historical condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income give effect to the merger as if it had occurred on April 1, 2004.
     The acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, . Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price, calculated as described in Note 1 to these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, is allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets of VERITAS acquired in connection with the acquisition, based on their estimated fair values. Management has made a preliminary allocation of the estimated purchase price to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on various preliminary estimates. The allocation of the estimated purchase price is preliminary pending finalization of various estimates and analyses.
Business Combinations
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not include any adjustments for liabilities that will result from integration activities, as management is in the process of making these assessments and estimates of these costs are not currently known. However, liabilities ultimately will be recorded related to integration activities, including severance or relocation costs related to VERITAS employees, costs of vacating some facilities of VERITAS, or other costs associated with exiting activities of VERITAS. Any such adjustments to liabilities will be recorded as an adjustment to the purchase price and a corresponding offsetting adjustment to goodwill. In addition, Symantec may incur significant restructuring charges upon completion of the acquisition or in subsequent quarters for severance or relocation costs related to Symantec employees, costs of vacating some facilities (leased or owned) of Symantec, or other costs associated with exiting activities of Symantec. Any such restructuring charges would be recorded as an expense in the Statement of Income in the period in which they were incurred.
     There were no significant intercompany balances and transactions between Symantec and VERITAS as of the dates and for the periods of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. Certain reclassification adjustments have been made to conform VERITAS' historical reported balances to the pro forma condensed combined financial statement basis of presentation.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been prepared by management for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the condensed consolidated financial position or results of operations in future periods or the results that actually would have been realized had Symantec and VERITAS been a combined company during the specified periods. The pro forma adjustments are based on the preliminary information available at the time of the preparation of this document. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, including the notes thereto, are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, Symantec's historical consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for its year ended March 31, 2005 and in its Form 10-Q for its quarter ended June 30, 2005, and VERITAS' historical consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 and for the three months ended March 31, 2005, which are included as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.3, respectively, to this Form 8-K/A.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Basis of Presentation
     On July 2, 2005, Symantec completed its acquisition of VERITAS whereby VERITAS became a wholly owned subsidiary of Symantec in a transaction accounted for using the purchase method. The total estimated purchase price of approximately $13.2 billion includes Symantec common stock valued at $12.5 billion, assumed stock options and restricted stock with a fair value of $697 million and estimated direct transaction costs of $27 million.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements give effect to the issuance of approximately 483 million shares of Symantec common stock, excluding shares of treasury stock retained, based on an exchange ratio of 1.1242 shares of Symantec common stock for each outstanding share of VERITAS common stock as of July 2, 2005. The average market price per share of Symantec common stock of $25.87 is based on an average of the closing prices for a range of trading days (December 14, 2004 through December 20, 2004, inclusive) around the announcement date (December 16, 2004) of the proposed transaction.
     Under the terms of the agreement, Symantec assumed each outstanding option to purchase VERITAS common stock with an exercise price less than or equal to $49.00 per share as well as each additional option required to be assumed by applicable law. Each option assumed was converted into an option to purchase Symantec common stock after applying the exchange ratio. All other options to purchase shares of VERITAS common stock not exercised prior to the acquisition were cancelled immediately prior to the acquisition and were not converted or assumed by Symantec. Symantec assumed options to purchase approximately 66 million shares of Symantec common stock. The fair value of the outstanding options was determined using a Black-Scholes valuation model with the following weighted-average assumptions: volatility of 36%; risk-free interest rate of 3.4%, expected life of 3.5 years and dividend yield of zero. In addition, Symantec exchanged Symantec restricted stock units for all of the VERITAS outstanding restricted stock units, after applying the exchange ratio. Symantec exchanged approximately 425,000 restricted stock units for all of the outstanding VERITAS restricted stock units. The fair value of the outstanding restricted stock units was determined based on their intrinsic value at July 2, 2005.
     The preliminary estimated total purchase price of the acquisition is as follows (in thousands):
     Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price as shown in the table above is allocated to VERITAS' net tangible and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of July 2, 2005. Management has allocated the preliminary estimated purchase price based on preliminary estimates based on various factors as described in the introduction to these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary pending the completion of various analyses and the finalization of estimates. The allocation of the preliminary purchase price and the estimated useful lives and first year amortization on an annualized basis associated with certain assets is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
     A preliminary estimate of $2.3 billion has been allocated to net tangible assets acquired. This estimate reflects adjustments of certain VERITAS assets and liabilities to fair value. A preliminary estimate of $2.8 billion has been allocated to amortizable intangible assets acquired. The depreciation and amortization related to the fair value adjustments to net tangible assets and the amortization related to the amortizable intangible assets are reflected as pro forma adjustments to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income.
     Acquired product rights include developed and core technology, patents and backlog. Developed technology relates to VERITAS' products across all of their product lines that have reached technological feasibility. Core technology and patents represent a combination of VERITAS processes, patents and trade secrets developed through years of experience in design and development of their products. Backlog relates to firm customer orders that generally are scheduled for delivery within one year. Symantec will amortize the fair value of the backlog on a straight-line basis over a one-year life and will amortize the fair value of all other acquired product rights on a straight-line basis over an average estimated life of 5 years.
Identifiable intangible assets.
     Customer contracts and relationships represent existing contracts that relate primarily to underlying customer relationships. Symantec will amortize the fair value of these assets on a straight-line basis over an average estimated life of 8 years.
     Trade name relates to the VERITAS trade name, which Symantec will amortize on a straight-line basis over an estimated life of 10 years.
     Approximately $8.6 billion has been allocated to goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the underlying net tangible and intangible assets. In accordance with the SFAS No. 142, , goodwill will not be amortized but instead will be tested for impairment at least annually (more frequently if certain indicators are present). In the event that the management of the combined company determines that the value of goodwill has become impaired, the combined company will incur an accounting charge for the amount of impairment during the fiscal quarter in which the determination is made.
Goodwill.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
     A preliminary estimate of $284 million has been allocated to in-process research and development and will be charged to expense in the quarter ending September 30, 2005. Due to its non-recurring nature, the in-process research and development expense has been excluded from the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income.
In-process research and development.
     VERITAS is currently developing new products in multiple product areas that qualify as in-process research and development. Projects that qualify as in-process research and development represent those that have not yet reached technological feasibility. Technological feasibility is defined as being equivalent to completion of a beta-phase working prototype in which there is no remaining risk relating to the development.
     VERITAS is currently involved in numerous research and development projects, which are focused on developing new products, integrating new technologies, improving product performance and broadening features and functionalities. There is a risk that these development efforts and enhancements will not be competitive with other products using alternative technologies that offer comparable functionality.
     The value assigned to in-process research and development was determined by considering the importance of each project to the overall development plan, estimating costs to develop the purchased in-process research and development into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects when completed and discounting the net cash flows to their present value. The revenue estimates used to value the purchased in-process research and development were based on estimates of relevant market sizes and growth
 
factors, expected trends in technology and the nature and expected timing of new product introductions by VERITAS and its competitors.
     The rate utilized to discount the net cash flows to their present value is based on VERITAS' weighted average cost of capital. The weighted average cost of capital was adjusted to reflect the difficulties and uncertainties in completing each project and thereby achieving technological feasibility, the percentage of completion of each project, anticipated market acceptance and penetration, market growth rates and risks related to the impact of potential changes in future target markets. Based on these factors, a discount rate of 13.5% was deemed appropriate for valuing the in-process research and development.
     The estimates used in valuing in-process research and development were based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Accordingly, actual results may vary from the projected results.
2. Convertible Subordinated Notes
     Upon completion of the acquisition, the VERITAS convertible subordinated notes remained outstanding and became convertible at the option of the holder, subject to their terms and conditions, into 24.3729 shares of Symantec common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of the notes (assuming no other event occurs that would cause any adjustment to the conversion features of such notes in accordance with their terms). This amount is equal to the historical conversion rate of 21.6802 multiplied by the exchange ratio offered in the acquisition of 1.1242. In addition, effective upon the completion of the acquisition, Symantec has guaranteed the obligations of VERITAS under the notes. As a result of Standard & Poor's withdrawing its corporate credit rating for VERITAS on July 6, 2005, the notes are currently convertible into shares of Symantec common stock. Upon conversion, Symantec would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of Symantec common stock ($21.74 per share at June 30, 2005), up to the principle amount of the note. Amounts in excess of the principle amount, if any, may be paid in cash or in stock at Symantec's option.
3. Reclassifications
     Certain reclassification adjustments have been made to conform VERITAS' historical reported balances to the pro forma combined condensed financial statement basis of presentation. The reclassifications are as follows:
4. Pro Forma Adjustments
     Pro forma adjustments are necessary to reflect the estimated purchase price, to reflect amounts related to VERITAS' net tangible and intangible assets at an amount equal to the preliminary estimate of their fair values, to reflect the amortization expense related to the estimated amortizable intangible assets and deferred stock-based compensation, to reflect changes in depreciation and amortization expense resulting from the estimated fair value adjustments to net tangible assets and to reflect the income tax effect related to the pro forma adjustments.
     There were no significant intercompany balances and transactions between Symantec and VERITAS as of the dates and for the periods of these pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
     The pro forma combined provision for income taxes does not necessarily reflect the amounts that would have resulted had Symantec and VERITAS filed consolidated income tax returns during the periods presented.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not include any adjustments for liabilities that will result from integration activities, as management is in the process of making these assessments and estimates of these costs are not currently known. However, liabilities ultimately will be recorded related to integration activities, including severance or relocation costs related to VERITAS employees, costs of vacating some facilities of VERITAS, or other costs associated with exiting activities of VERITAS. Any such adjustments to liabilities will be recorded as an adjustment to the purchase price and a corresponding offsetting adjustment to goodwill. In addition, Symantec may incur significant restructuring charges upon completion of the acquisition or in subsequent quarters for severance or relocation costs related to Symantec
 
employees, costs of vacating some facilities (leased or owned) of Symantec, or other costs associated with exiting activities of Symantec. Any such restructuring charges would be recorded as an expense in the Statement of Income in the period in which they were incurred.
     Symantec has not identified any pre-acquisition contingencies where the related asset, liability or impairment is probable and the amount of the asset, liability or impairment can be reasonably estimated. Prior to the end of the purchase price allocation period, if information becomes available which would indicate it is probable that such events have occurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, such items will be included in the purchase price allocation.
     The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are as follows:
5. Pro Forma Net Income Per Share
     The pro forma basic and diluted net income per share are based on the number of Symantec shares used in computing basic and diluted net income per share plus the number of VERITAS shares used in computing basic and diluted net income per share multiplied by the exchange ratio of 1.1242. All Symantec historical and pro forma per-share amounts reflect the retroactive effects of all Symantec stock splits including the two-for-one stock split in the form of a stock dividend effective November 30, 2004.


