FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20061025163253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 25, 2006, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today reported results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, ended Sept. 29, 2006. GAAP revenue for the quarter was $1.262 billion and non-GAAP revenue was $1.275 billion. Non-GAAP revenue grew 7 percent over the comparable period a year ago.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Oct. 25, 2006 
GAAP net income for the fiscal second quarter was $123 million, compared to a net loss of $251 million for the same quarter last year. Diluted earnings per share was $0.12, compared to a loss of $0.21 per share for the same quarter last year.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income for the fiscal second quarter was $259 million, compared to $273 million for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.26, compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.23 for the same quarter last year. For a detailed reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results, please refer to the attached consolidated financial statements.
Non-GAAP Results:
"Our results for the September quarter met the low end of our expectations," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and chief executive officer. "With the most challenging part of the fiscal year behind us, I believe our business remains healthy and we are poised to achieve our full-year financial targets."
Financial Highlights
For the quarter, Symantec's consumer business represented 31 percent of total revenue and grew 12 percent year-over-year. The enterprise business represented 69 percent of the total revenue and grew 5 percent year-over-year. The enterprise segment includes results from the Data Center Management, Security and Data Management, and Services groups.
 
Symantec Reports Second Quarter Earnings Page 2 of 3
International revenues represented 50 percent of total revenue in the second quarter and grew 10 percent year-over-year. The Americas, including the United States, Latin America, and Canada, represented 55 percent of total revenue and increased 5 percent year-over-year. The Europe, Middle East, and Africa region represented 31 percent of total revenue for the quarter and grew 8 percent year-over-year. Asia Pacific/Japan revenue for the quarter represented 14 percent of total revenue and grew 11 percent year-over-year.
GAAP deferred revenue at the end of the September 2006 quarter was $2.228 billion. Non-GAAP deferred revenue at the end of the quarter reached $2.250 billion, growing almost 30 percent compared to the September 2005 quarter.
December Quarter Forecast
For the December 2006 quarter, GAAP revenue is estimated between $1.315 billion and $1.345 billion. GAAP diluted earnings per share for the December quarter is estimated between $0.14 and $0.15.
Non-GAAP revenue for the December quarter is estimated between $1.325 billion and $1.355 billion. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is estimated between $0.29 and $0.30.
Fiscal Year 2007 Forecast
Symantec is reaffirming its previously announced guidance for the fiscal year ending March 2007. GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.1 billion to $5.3 billion. GAAP diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year ending March 2007 is estimated between $0.46 and $0.56.
Non-GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.2 billion to $5.4 billion. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is estimated between $1.06 and $1.16.
Quarterly Highlights
Conference Call
 
Symantec Reports Second Quarter Earnings Page 3 of 3
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the fiscal second quarter, ended Sept. 29, 2006, and to review guidance for the fiscal year 2007. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html
About Symantec
Symantec is the world leader in providing solutions to help individuals and enterprises assure the security, availability, and integrity of their information. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in 40 countries. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including statements relating to projections of future revenue and earnings per share for the third quarter and year of fiscal 2007, and projections of deferred revenue, amortization of acquisition related intangibles and stock-based compensation. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: maintaining customer and partner relationships; the anticipated growth of certain market segments, particularly with regard to security and storage; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; the successful development of new products and integration of acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
Our results of operations have undergone significant change due to a series of acquisitions, the impact of SFAS 123(R) and other corporate events. To help our readers understand our past financial performance and our future results, we supplement the financial results that we provide in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, with non-GAAP financial measures. The method we use to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Our non-GAAP results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to our quarterly earnings release and which can be found, along with other financial information, on the investor relations page of our Web site at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest/center.html
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Footnotes:
 
 
 
 


