FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20060616172134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On June 12, 2006, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") entered into a purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") under which it agreed to sell $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of its 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "2011 Notes") and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of its 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes" and, together with the 2011 Notes, the "Notes") to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"). The Purchase Agreement also granted the Initial Purchasers an over-allotment option to purchase up to an additional $100 million aggregate principal amount of each of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes. The description of the Purchase Agreement in this report is a summary only and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Purchase Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.01, is incorporated herein by reference.
The closing of the sale of the Notes, including $100 million aggregate principal amount of 2011 Notes pursuant to the Initial Purchasers' exercise of the over-allotment option with respect to such notes, occurred on June 16, 2006. The Company estimates that the net proceeds from this offering, including from the Initial Purchasers' exercise of the over-allotment option with respect to the 2011 Notes, will be approximately $2.068 billion after deducting fees and expenses.
The 2011 Notes are governed by an indenture, dated as of June 16, 2006 (the "2011 Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The descriptions of the 2011 Notes and 2011 Indenture in this report are summaries only, and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the 2011 Notes and 2011 Indenture, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 4.01, and incorporated herein by reference.
The 2013 Notes are governed by an indenture, dated as of June 16, 2006 (the "2013 Indenture" and, together with the 2011 Indenture, the "Indentures"), between the Company and the Trustee. The descriptions of the 2013 Notes and 2013 Indenture in this report are summaries only, and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the 2013 Notes and 2013 Indenture, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 4.02, and incorporated herein by reference.
Both the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes will be convertible into cash and, if applicable, shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock") based on a conversion rate of 52.2951 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2011 Notes or 2013 Notes, as the case may be, (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $19.12 per share), in each case subject to adjustment determined in the manner set forth in the Indentures, only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter beginning after June 30, 2006 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the closing price of the Common Stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is more than 130% of the applicable conversion price per share; (2) during the five business-day period after any five consecutive trading-day period (the "Measurement Period") in which the trading price per note for each day of such Measurement Period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Common Stock and the conversion rate on each such day; (3) if specified distributions to holders of the Common Stock are made, or specified corporate transactions occur, as set forth in the Indentures, respectively; and (4) with respect to the 2011 Notes, at any time on or after April 5, 2011, and with respect to the 2013 Notes, at any time on or after April 5, 2013, in each case through the business day preceding the applicable maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder will receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) the principal amount of the Note or (ii) the conversion value, determined in the manner set forth in the Indentures. If the conversion value exceeds the principal amount of the Note on the conversion date, the Company will also deliver, at its election, cash or Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000.
The 2011 Notes will bear interest at a rate of 0.75% per year and the 2013 Notes will bear interest at a rate of 1.00% per year, in each case payable semiannually in arrears in cash on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on December 15, 2006. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes will mature on June 15, 2011 and June 15, 2013, respectively.
The holders of the Notes who convert their Notes in connection with a change in control, as defined in the applicable Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a change in control, the holders of the Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of
Table of Contents
their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
The Notes will rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The Notes will rank senior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future subordinated indebtedness and effectively subordinated in right of payment to all of its subsidiaries' obligations (including secured and unsecured obligations) and subordinated in right of payment to its secured obligations to the extent of the assets securing such obligation.
If an event of default, as defined in the Indentures, shall have happened and be continuing, either the trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the 2011 Notes or 2013 Notes, as applicable, then outstanding may, subject to certain exceptions provided in the Indentures, declare the principal amount of the 2011 Notes or 2013 Notes, as applicable, and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration, to be immediately due and payable. In the case of certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, the principal amount of the Notes and any unpaid interest accrued thereon through the occurrence of such event shall automatically become and be immediately due and payable.
In connection with the sale of the Notes, the Company entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of June 16, 2006, with the Initial Purchasers (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to use its reasonable efforts to cause to become effective within 180 days after the closing of the offering of the Notes, a shelf registration statement with respect to the resale of the Notes and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes. The Company will use its reasonable efforts to keep the shelf registration statement effective for a period of two years after the closing of the offering of the Notes or until the earlier of (i) the sale or transfer pursuant to a shelf registration statement of all of the Notes and Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, and (ii) the date when holders (other than holders that are the Company's "affiliates") of the Notes and Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes are able to sell all such securities immediately without restriction. The Company will be required to pay additional interest, subject to some limitations, to the holders of the Notes if it fails to comply with its obligations to register the Notes and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes. The description of the Registration Rights Agreement in this report is a summary only, and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.03, and incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the sale of the Notes, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to its Common Stock with certain of the Initial Purchasers or their affiliates (the "Hedge Participants") providing for a call option requiring the Hedge Participants to deliver to the Company cash and/or stock upon conversion of the Notes by holders of the Notes. The Company paid an aggregate amount of approximately $592 million of the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes to enter into the convertible note hedge transactions.
The call option is only exercisable by the Company upon a conversion of one or more Notes, and upon exercise the counterparty will deliver to the Company a combination of cash and Common Stock equal to and in the same proportions as the combination of cash and Common Stock that the Company delivers under the Notes that are converted.
In connection with the convertible note hedge transactions, the Hedge Participants have advised the Company that they will purchase Common Stock in secondary market transactions prior to or following pricing of the Notes (which occurred on June 12, 2006), and may enter into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to the Common Stock concurrently with or following pricing of the Notes.
The Company also entered into warrant transactions with the Hedge Participants. The warrants issued to the Hedge Participants entitle the Hedge Participants to purchase a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of such shares initially issuable under the Notes, with a strike price of $27.3175, which represents a 75% premium over the Company's stock price on June 12, 2006. The Company received aggregate payments of approximately $326 million for the sale of the warrants. The call options and warrants are separate contracts entered into by the Company, are not part of the terms of the Notes and will not affect the holders' rights under the Notes.
Table of Contents
The warrants are exercisable over the period beginning six months after the date of issuance of the warrants and ending on their expiration dates in 2011 and 2013, and will be exercised automatically upon their expiration if on such date the price of the Common Stock exceeds the strike price. The warrant will be settled on a net exercise basis. That is, at the time of exercise of the warrant, the Company will owe the Hedge Participants net shares of Common Stock, not offset by the Company's exercise of the call option, in an amount based on the excess of the Company's then current stock price over the strike price of the warrant.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
On June 16, 2006, the Company issued $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2011 Notes and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes.
The 2011 Notes will bear interest at a rate of 0.75% per year and the 2013 Notes will bear interest at a rate of 1.00% per year, in each case payable semiannually in arrears in cash on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on December 15, 2006. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes will mature on June 15, 2011 and June 15, 2013, respectively.
The Notes and the underlying Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
Additional terms and conditions of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes are contained in Item 1.01 and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
On June 12, 2006, the Company agreed to sell $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2011 Notes and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. in a private placement pursuant to exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The Purchase Agreement also granted the Initial Purchasers an over-allotment option to purchase up to an additional $100 million aggregate principal amount of each of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes. The net proceeds from the offering, including $100 million aggregate principal amount of 2011 Notes pursuant to the Initial Purchasers' exercise of the over-allotment option with respect to such notes, after deducting the Initial Purchasers' discount and the estimated offering expenses payable by the Company, were approximately $2.068 billion. The Initial Purchasers received an aggregate commission of $31.5 million in connection with the offering of the Notes.
The Company offered and sold the Notes to the Initial Purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Initial Purchasers then sold the Notes to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Company relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the Initial Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement.
The Company offered and sold the warrants to the Hedge Participants in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Company relied on this exemption from registration based in part on representations made by the Hedge Participants in the warrant documents.
Table of Contents
The Notes, the underlying Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes and the warrants have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
Additional terms and conditions are contained in Item 1.01 and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events
The Company intends to use approximately $1.5 billion of the net proceeds from the offering described above to purchase shares of Common Stock, approximately $755 million of which was used to purchase shares contemporaneously with the closing of this offering through block trades with one or more of the Initial Purchasers and/or their affiliates, and the balance of which is expected to be purchased through Rule 10b5-1 plans, prior to the end of the Company's September 2006 quarter. This repurchase amount is in addition to repurchases under the Company's previously announced repurchase program, under which approximately $710 million remained authorized as of May 31, 2006. The remaining net proceeds will be added to the Company's working capital and will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchase of the 0.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2013 issued by Veritas Software Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company, which may be put to the Company on August 1, 2006.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 4.01
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          INDENTURE, dated as of June 16, 2006, between Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation, as the "Company" and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, as Trustee.
          The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of the Indenture to provide for the initial issuance of $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 0.75 % Convertible Senior Notes Due 2011 (the "Initial Notes," and together with the "Additional Notes," the "Notes"). All things necessary to make the Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done, and the Company has done all things necessary to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and duly issued by the Company, the valid obligations of the Company as hereinafter provided.
          This Indenture is subject to, and will be governed by, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be a part of and govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
          For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Notes by the Holders thereof, the parties hereto covenant and agree, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders, as follows:
     Section 1.01 .
Definitions
          "2013 Notes" means the Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 of the Company issued under an Indenture, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and the Trustee.
          "Additional Interest" means additional interest owed to the Holders pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement and pursuant to Section 6.02(c) of this Indenture.
          "Additional Notes" means the up to $100,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under this Indenture as a result of the Initial Purchasers exercise of their over-allotment option, having the same terms as the Initial Notes.
          "Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with, such Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with") with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Securities, by contract or otherwise.
 
          "Agent" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent.
          "Agent Member" means a member of, or a participant in, the Depositary.
          "Applicable Conversion Rate" means the Conversion Rate on any Trading Day.
          "Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of beneficial ownership interests in a Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, in each case to the extent applicable to such transfer or exchange.
          "Bankruptcy Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.01.
          "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11 of the United States Code (or any successor thereto) or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
          "Board of Directors" means the board of directors or comparable governing body of the Company, or any committee thereof duly authorized to act on its behalf.
          "Board Resolution" means a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors which is certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and remains in full force and effect as of the date of its certification.
          "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or obligated to close.
          "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares of stock of a corporation, partnership interests or other equivalent interests (however designated, whether voting or non-voting) in such Person's equity, entitling the holder to receive a share of the profits and losses, and a distribution of assets, after liabilities, of such Person.
          "Cash" means such coin or currency of the United States as at any time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
          "Certificated Note" means a Note in registered individual form without interest coupons.
          "Close of Business" means 5:00 p.m. (New York City time).
          "Closing Price" of the Common Stock on any date means the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the NASDAQ National Market. If the Common Stock is not listed for trading on a United States national or regional securities exchange and not reported by the NASDAQ National Market on the relevant date, the "closing price" will be the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization. If the Common Stock is not so
 
quoted, the last reported sale price will be the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose.
          "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, $0.01 par value, as it exists on the date of this Indenture and any shares of any class or classes of Capital Stock of the Company resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company and which are not subject to redemption by the Company; provided, however, that if at any time there shall be more than one such resulting class, the shares of each such class then so issuable on conversion of Notes shall be substantially in the proportion which the total number of shares of such class resulting from all such reclassifications bears to the total number of shares of all such classes resulting from all such reclassifications.
          "Company" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of the Indenture or any successor obligor under the Indenture and the Notes pursuant to Section 5.01.
          "Conversion Date" means the date on which the Holder of the Note has complied with all requirements under this Indenture to convert such Note.
          "Conversion Price" per share of Common Stock as of any day means the result obtained by dividing $1,000 by the Conversion Rate on such day.
          "Conversion Rate" means 52.2951 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustment pursuant to Article 10.
          "Conversion Reference Period" means (a) for Notes that are converted during the period beginning on the 23 scheduled Trading Day prior to the Maturity Date, the twenty consecutive Trading Days beginning on, and including, the 20 scheduled Trading Day prior to the Maturity Date and (b) in all other instances, the twenty consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Conversion Date.
rd
th
          "Conversion Value" means, per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, the amount equal to the average of the products for each Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period of (a) the Applicable Conversion Rate for such day multiplied by (b) the average of the Volume Weighted Average Price per share of the Common Stock on such day.
          "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which the trust created by this Indenture is principally administered, which at the date of the Indenture is located at U.S. Bank National Association, 633 West Fifth Street, 24 Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90071, Attention: Corporate Trust Services (Symantec Corporation 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011).
th
          "Current Market Price" of Common Stock on any day means the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for each of the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the earlier of the day in question and the day before the Ex-Dividend Date with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation.
 
          "Daily Share Amounts" means, for each Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period and each $1,000 principal amount of Notes surrendered for conversion, a number of shares of Common Stock (but in no event less than zero) determined by the following formula:
          "Debt" means, with respect to any Person, without duplication,
     (1) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money (other than non-recourse obligations);
     (2) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments.
          "Default" means any event that is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
          "Depositary" means DTC or the nominee thereof, or any successor thereto.
          "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation, and its successors.
          "DTC Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit C.
          "Event of Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.01.
          "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
          "Ex-Dividend Date" means, with respect to any issuance or distribution, the first date on which the shares of Common Stock trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive such issuance or distribution.
          "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America as in effect from time to time.
          "Global Note" means a Note in registered global form without interest coupons.
          "Holder" or "Noteholder" means the registered holder of any Note.
          "Indenture" means this indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
          "Initial Notes" means the Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Notes issued in replacement thereof.
 
          "Initial Purchasers" means Citigroup Capital Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
          "interest", in respect of the Notes, unless the context otherwise requires, refers to interest and Additional Interest, if any.
          "Interest Payment Date" means each June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing December 15, 2006.
          "Issue Date" means the date on which the Initial Notes are originally issued under this Indenture.
          "Market Disruption Event" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half hour period in the aggregate on any scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Nasdaq National Market or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
          "Maturity Date" means June 15, 2011.
          "NASD" means the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
          "Notes" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Recitals.
          "Officer" means the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president or chief executive officer, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer, or the secretary or any assistant secretary, of the Company.
          "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed in the name of the Company (i) by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president or chief executive officer or a vice president and (ii) by the chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer or the secretary or any assistant secretary.
          "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion signed by legal counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, satisfactory to the Trustee.
          "Paying Agent" refers to a Person engaged to perform the obligations of the Trustee in respect of payments made or funds held hereunder in respect of the Notes.
          "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability company, an association, a trust or any other entity, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
          "principal" of any Debt (including the Notes) means the principal amount of such Debt (or if such Debt was issued with original issue discount, the face amount of such Debt less
 
the remaining unamortized portion of the original issue discount of such Debt), together with, unless the context otherwise indicates, any premium then payable on such Debt.
          "Register" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.03.
          "Registrar" means a Person engaged to maintain the Register.
          "Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of June 16, 2006, among the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC with respect to the Notes.
          "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date means the June 1 or December 1 (whether or not a Trading Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date.
          "Resale Restriction Termination Date" means, as to any Note, the later of June 16, 2008 and the date that is two years after the last date on which the Company or any Affiliate of the Company was the owner of such Note.
          "Restricted Global Note" means a Global Note that bears the Restricted Note Legend representing Notes issued and sold pursuant to Rule 144A.
          "Restricted Certificated Note" means a Certificated Note that bears the Restricted Note Legend.
          "Restricted Common Stock Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit B-2.
          "Restricted Note Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit B-1.
          "Rule 144" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act.
          "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
          "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
          "Significant Subsidiary" means, in respect of any Person, a Subsidiary of such Person that would constitute a "significant subsidiary" as such term is defined under Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
          "Stated Maturity" means (i) with respect to the Notes, June 15, 2011, or (ii) with respect to any scheduled payment of interest on the Notes, the date specified as the fixed date on which such interest payment is due and payable as set forth in this Indenture and the Notes, not including any contingent obligation to repay, redeem or repurchase prior to the regularly scheduled date for payment.
          "Subsidiary" means with respect to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Securities is owned,
 
directly or indirectly, by, or, in the case of a partnership, the sole general partner or the managing partner or the only general partners of which are, such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person (or a combination thereof). Unless otherwise specified, "Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary of the Company.
          "Trading Day" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed, is open for trading or, if the Common Stock is not so listed, admitted for trading or quoted, any Business Day. A Trading Day only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system.
          "Trading Price" with respect to the Notes, on any date of determination, means the average of the secondary market bid quotations obtained by the Trustee for $2.0 million principal amount of Notes at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from three independent nationally recognized securities dealers selected by the Company; provided that if three such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, but two such bids are obtained, then the average of the two bids shall be used, and if only one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, that one bid shall be used. If the Trustee cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $2.0 million principal amount of Notes from a nationally recognized securities dealer, then the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes will be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price (as provided to the Trustee by the Company) and the Conversion Rate. Any such determination by the Trustee will be conclusive absent manifest error.
          "Trustee" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of the Indenture or any successor trustee under the Indenture pursuant to Article 7.
          "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
          "Volume Weighted Average Price" on any Trading Day means the price per share of the Common Stock as displayed on Bloomberg (or any successor service) page SYMC <equity> VAP in respect of the period from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (New York City time), on such Trading Day; or, if such price is not available, the market value per share of the Common Stock on such day as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company.
          "Voting Securities" means, with respect to any Person, securities of any class or kind ordinarily having the power to vote for the election of directors, managers or other voting members of the governing body of such Person.
 
     Section 1.02 .
Other Definitions
     Section 1.03 . Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the Trust Indenture Act, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
          "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
          "indenture securities" means the Notes.
          "indenture security holder" means a Noteholder.
 
          "indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture.
          "indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee.
          "obligor" on the indenture securities means the Company.
          All other Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the Trust Indenture Act, defined by Trust Indenture Act reference to another statute or defined by Securities Exchange Commission rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
     Section 1.04 . Unless the context otherwise requires or except as otherwise expressly provided,
Rules of Construction
     (a) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
     (b) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
     (c) "herein," "hereof" and other words of similar import refer to the Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Section, Article or other subdivision;
     (d) all references to Sections or Articles or Exhibits refer to Sections or Articles or Exhibits of or to the Indenture unless otherwise indicated;
     (e) references to agreements or instruments, or to statutes or regulations, are to such agreements or instruments, or statutes or regulations, as amended from time to time (or to successor statutes and regulations);
     (f) in the event that a transaction meets the criteria of more than one category of permitted transactions or listed exceptions the Company may classify such transaction as it, in its sole discretion, determines;
     (g) "or" is not exclusive;
     (h) "including" means including, without limitation; and
     (i) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular.
     Section 1.05 . Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments (which may take the form of an electronic writing or messaging or otherwise be in accordance with customary procedures of the Depositary or the Trustee) of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing (which may be in electronic form); and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced
Acts of Holders
 
thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent (either of which may be in electronic form) shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
     Section 2.01 .
Form, Dating and Denominations; Legends
     (a) The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A. The terms and provisions contained in the form of the Note annexed as Exhibit A constitute and are hereby expressly made a part of the Indenture. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, rules of or agreements with national securities exchanges to which the Company is subject, or usage. Each Note will be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes will be issuable only in denominations of $1,000 in principal amount and any integral multiple thereof.
     (b) . All of the Notes are initially being offered and sold to qualified institutional buyers as defined in Rule 144A (collectively, "QIBs" or individually, each a "QIB") in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Restricted Global Notes, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the Depositary, and registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co., duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. The aggregate principal amount of the Restricted Global Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee as hereinafter provided, subject in each case to compliance with the Applicable Procedures.
Restricted Global Notes
     (c) . Each Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, purchases or conversions of such Notes. Any adjustment of the aggregate principal amount of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.06 and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary.
Global Notes in General
          Agent Members shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by the Depositary or under the Global Note, and the Depositary (including, for this purpose, its nominee) may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any
 
agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and Holder of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall (A) prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or (B) impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Note.
     (d) . The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.01(d), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Notes that (i) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary, (ii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (iii) shall bear a legend substantially to the effect set forth in Exhibit C. This Section 2.01(d) shall only apply to Global Securities deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary.
Book Entry Provisions
     Section 2.02 . An Officer shall sign the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature attested by the manual or facsimile signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company. Typographic and other minor errors or defects in any such facsimile signature shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any Note which has been authenticated and delivered by the Trustee.
Execution and Authentication
          If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Note shall be valid nevertheless.
          A Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Note. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
          The Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery Notes for original issue in the aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000 (or up to $1,100,000,000 to the extent the Initial Purchasers exercise their over-allotment option) upon receipt of a written order or orders of the Company signed by an Officer of the Company (a "Company Order"). The Company Order shall specify the amount of Notes to be authenticated, shall provide that all such Notes will be represented by a Global Note and the date on which each original issue of Notes is to be authenticated. The initial aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding at any time may not exceed $1,000,000,000 (or $1,100,000,000 to the extent the Initial Purchasers exercise their over-allotment option) except as provided in Section 2.07 and except as provided in the next succeeding paragraph.
          The Company may, without the consent of any holders of Notes, reopen the Notes and issue additional Notes hereunder with the same terms and with the same CUSIP number as the Notes initially issued hereunder in an unlimited aggregate principal amount, which will form the same series with the Notes initially issued hereunder so long as such additional Notes are fungible with the Notes initially issued hereunder for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
          The Trustee shall act as the initial authenticating agent. Thereafter, the Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An
 
authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent shall have the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
          The Notes shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and any integral multiple thereof.
     Section 2.03 . The Company shall maintain one or more offices or agencies where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (each, a "Registrar"), one or more offices or agencies where Notes may be presented for payment (each, a "Paying Agent"), one or more offices or agencies where Notes may be presented for conversion (each, a "Conversion Agent") and one or more offices or agencies where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Company will at all times maintain a Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar and an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served in the United States. One of the Registrars (the "Primary Registrar") shall keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange (the "Register").
Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent
          The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Agent not a party to this Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or agent for service of notices and demands in any place required by this Indenture, or fails to give the foregoing notice, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any Affiliate of the Company may act as Paying Agent (except for the purposes of Article 8).
          The Company hereby initially designates the Trustee as Paying Agent, Registrar, and Conversion Agent, and the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as such office or agency of the Company for each of the aforesaid purposes.
     Section 2.04 . Prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on each date on which the principal amount of or interest, if any, on any Notes is due and payable, the Company shall deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal amount or interest, if any, so becoming due. A Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Noteholders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal amount of or interest, if any, on the Notes, and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company (or any other obligor on the Notes) in making any such payment. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall, before 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on each date on which a payment of the principal amount of or interest on any Notes is due and payable, segregate the money and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee, and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any default, upon written request to a Paying Agent, require such Paying Agent to pay forthwith to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent (other than the Company) shall have no further liability for the money.
Paying Agent To Hold Money In Trust
 
     Section 2.05 . The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Noteholders. If the Trustee is not the Primary Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee on or before each semiannual interest payment date, and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Noteholders.
Noteholder Lists
     Section 2.06 . Subject to compliance with any applicable additional requirements contained in Section 2.14, when a Note is presented to a Registrar with a request to register a transfer thereof or to exchange such Note for an equal principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transactions are met; provided, however, that every Note presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by an assignment form in the form included in Exhibit A, and in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing. To permit registration of transfers and exchanges, upon surrender of any Note for registration of transfer or exchange at an office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 2.03, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Notes of a like aggregate principal amount at the Registrar's request. Any exchange or transfer shall be without charge, except that the Company or the Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto, and provided, that this sentence shall not apply to any exchange pursuant to Section 2.10, Section 3.04, Section 9.03(b) or Section 10.02(g) not involving any transfer.
Transfer and Exchange
          All Notes issued upon any transfer or exchange of Notes shall be valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
          Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.03 shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Notes upon transfer or exchange of Notes.
          Each Holder of a Note agrees to indemnify the Company and the Trustee against any liability that may result from the transfer, exchange or assignment of such Holder's Note in violation of any provision of this Indenture and/or applicable United States federal or state securities law.
          The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Note (including any transfers between or among Agent Members or other beneficial owners of interests in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
 
     Section 2.07 . If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Company, a Registrar or the Trustee, or the Company, a Registrar and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, and there is delivered to the Company, the applicable Registrar and the Trustee such security or indemnity as will be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company, such Registrar or the Trustee that such Note has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute, and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Note or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Note, a new Note of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Replacement Notes
          In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Note, pay or purchase such Note, as the case may be.
          Upon the issuance of any new Notes under this Section 2.07, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other reasonable expenses (including the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee or the Registrar) in connection therewith.
          Every new Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.07 in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
          The provisions of this Section 2.07 are (to the extent lawful) exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes.
     Section 2.08 . Notes outstanding at any time are all Notes authenticated by the Trustee, except for those canceled by it, those converted pursuant to Article 10, those delivered to it for cancellation or surrendered for transfer or exchange and those described in this Section 2.08 as not outstanding.
Outstanding Notes
          If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Company receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a protected purchaser.
          If a Paying Agent holds at 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Maturity Date Cash sufficient to pay the principal amount of the Notes payable on that date, then on and after the Maturity Date, such Notes shall cease to be outstanding and the principal amount thereof shall cease to bear interest.
          Subject to the restrictions contained in Section 2.09, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Note.
 
     Section 2.09 . (a) In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any notice, direction, waiver or consent, Notes owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Notes or by any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded, except that, for purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such notice, direction, waiver or consent, only Notes which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Notes so owned which have been pledged in good faith shall not be disregarded if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to the Notes and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor on the Notes or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor. Any Notes or shares of Common Stock issued upon the conversion of Notes that are purchased or owned by the Company or any Affiliate thereof may not be resold by the Company or such Affiliate unless registered under the Securities Act or resold pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in a transaction that results in such Notes or shares of Common Stock, as the case may be, no longer being "restricted securities" (as defined under Rule 144).
Treasury Notes
     Section 2.10 . Until definitive Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and execute, and, upon receipt of a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Notes. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of definitive Notes but may have variations that the Company with the consent of the Trustee considers appropriate for temporary Notes. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
Temporary Notes
     Section 2.11 . The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar, the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent shall forward to the Trustee or its agent any Notes surrendered to them for transfer, exchange, payment or conversion. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel, in accordance with its standard procedures, all Notes surrendered for transfer, exchange, payment, conversion or cancellation and upon written request of the Company shall deliver the canceled Notes to the Company.
Cancellation
     Section 2.12 . The Company in issuing the Notes may use one or more "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of purchase as a convenience to Holders; provided, that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a purchase and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such purchase shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
CUSIP Numbers
     Section 2.13 .
Book-entry Provisions For Global Notes
     (a) Transfers of Global Notes shall be limited to transfers in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. In addition, Certificated Notes shall be transferred to all beneficial owners, as identified by the Depositary, in exchange for their beneficial interests in Global Notes only if (i) the Depositary notifies the Company that the Depositary is unwilling or unable to continue as
 
depositary for any Global Note (or the Depositary ceases to be a "clearing agency" registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act) and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within ninety (90) days of such notice or cessation or (ii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Registrar has received a written request from the Depositary to issue Certificated Notes.
     (b) In connection with the transfer of a Global Note in its entirety to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 2.13(a), such Global Note shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall upon written instructions from the Company authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in such Global Note, an equal aggregate principal amount of Certificated Notes of authorized denominations.
     (c) Any Certificated Note constituting a Restricted Certificated Note delivered in exchange for an interest in a Global Note pursuant to Section 2.13(a) shall, except as otherwise provided by Section 2.14, bear the Restricted Note Legend.
     (d) The Holder of any Global Note may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes.
     Section 2.14 .
Special Transfer Provisions
     (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, but except as provided in Section 2.14(b), a Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
     (b) Every Note that bears or is required under this Section 2.14(b) to bear the Restricted Note Legend, and any Common Stock that bears or is required under this Section 2.14(b) to bear the Restricted Common Stock Legend (collectively, the "Restricted Securities") shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth in the Restricted Note Legend or the Restricted Common Stock Legend, as the case may be, unless such restrictions on transfer shall be waived by written consent of the Company, and the holder of each such Restricted Security, by such Notes holder's acceptance thereof, agrees to be bound by all such restrictions on transfer. As used in this Section 2.14(b), the term "transfer" encompasses any sale, pledge, loan, transfer or other disposition whatsoever of any Restricted Security or any interest therein.
          Until the Resale Restriction Termination Date, any certificate evidencing such Note (and all securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof), and any stock certificate representing shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of any Note, shall bear a Restricted Note Legend or a Restricted Common Stock Legend, as the case may be, unless such Note or such shares of Common Stock have been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at
 
the time of such transfer) or pursuant to Rule 144 or any similar provision then in force, or such shares of Common Stock have been issued upon conversion of Notes that have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or unless otherwise agreed by the Company in writing, with written notice thereof to the Trustee.
          Any Note (or security issued in exchange or substitution therefor) as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to conditions for removal of the Restricted Note Legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of such Note for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06, be exchanged for a new Note or Notes, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the Restricted Note Legend. If the Restricted Note surrendered for exchange is represented by a Global Note bearing the Restricted Note Legend, the principal amount of the legended Global Note shall be reduced by the appropriate principal amount and the principal amount of a Global Note without the Restricted Note Legend shall be increased by an equal principal amount. If a Global Note without the Restricted Note Legend is not then outstanding, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver an unlegended Global Note to the Depositary.
          Any such shares of Common Stock as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the Restricted Common Stock Legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such shares of Common Stock for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of Common Stock, which shall not bear the Restricted Common Stock Legend required by this Section 2.14.
     (c) By its acceptance of any Note bearing the Restricted Note Legend, each Holder of such a Note acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such Note set forth in this Indenture and in the Restricted Note Legend and agrees that it will transfer such Note only as provided in this Indenture and as permitted by applicable law.
     (d) The Registrar shall retain copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to Section 2.13 or this Section 2.14. The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time during normal hours of operation of the Registrar upon the giving of reasonable notice to the Registrar.
     Section 3.01 .
Repurchase At the Option of the Holder
     (a) If there shall have occurred a Change in Control, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase for Cash all or any portion of such Holder's Notes in integral multiples of $1,000 principal amount on a date
 
selected by the Company (the "Change in Control Purchase Date"), which Change in Control Purchase Date shall be no later than thirty-five (35) Trading Days after the occurrence of such Change in Control, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Change in Control Purchase Date (the "Change in Control Purchase Price"), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 3.01(c); provided that if the Change in Control Purchase Date is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date to which it relates, interest accrued to the Interest Payment Date will be paid to Holders of the Notes as of the preceding Regular Record Date.
                  A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as either of the following events shall occur:
     (i) any person or group, other than the Company, its Subsidiaries or any employee benefits plan of the Company or its Subsidiaries, files a Schedule 13D or Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) pursuant to the Exchange Act, disclosing that such person has become the beneficial owner of shares with a majority of the total voting power of the Company's outstanding Voting Securities; unless such beneficial ownership arises solely as a result of a revocable proxy delivered in response to a proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act; or
     (ii) the Company consolidates with or merges with or into another person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company), or sells, conveys, transfers or leases all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company) or any person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company) consolidates with or merges with or into the Company, and the outstanding Voting Securities of the Company are reclassified into, converted for or converted into the right to receive any other property or security, provided that none of these circumstances will be a Change in Control if persons that beneficially own the Voting Securities of the Company immediately prior to the transaction own, directly or indirectly, shares with a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding Voting Securities of the surviving or transferee person immediately after the transaction in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Company's Voting Securities immediately prior to the transaction.
                  For purposes of defining a Change in Control:
 
                  Notwithstanding the foregoing, it will not constitute a Change in Control if at least 90% of the consideration for the Common Stock (excluding Cash payments for fractional shares and Cash payments made in respect of dissenter's appraisal rights and Cash payment of the Required Cash Amount, if any) in the transaction or transactions constituting the Change in Control consists of common stock traded on a United States national securities exchange or quoted on The Nasdaq National Market, or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with the Change in Control, and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Notes become convertible solely into such common stock.
     (b) As promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces the Change in Control transaction, but in no event less than 20 Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of a Change in Control, the Company shall mail a written notice of Change in Control by first-class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder at their addresses shown in the register of the Registrar (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). The notice shall include a form of Change in Control Purchase Notice to be completed by the Noteholder and shall state:
          (i) briefly, the events causing a Change in Control;
          (ii) the anticipated effective date of such Change in Control;
          (iii) the date by which the Change in Control Purchase Notice pursuant to this Section 3.01 must be given;
          (iv) the Change in Control Purchase Price;
          (v) the Change in Control Purchase Date;
          (vi) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
          (vii) the then-current Conversion Rate and any adjustments thereto;
          (viii) that Notes with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder may be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof only if the Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
          (ix) briefly, the procedures a Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 3.01;
 
          (x) that Notes must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price;
          (xi) that the Change in Control Purchase Price for any Note as to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been duly given and not withdrawn, together with any accrued interest payable with respect thereto, will be paid on or prior to the third Trading Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of surrender of such Note;
          (xii) briefly, the conversion rights of the Notes;
          (xiii) the procedures for withdrawing a Change in Control Purchase Notice;
          (xiv) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest due, if any, interest on Notes surrendered for purchase will cease to accrue on and after the Change in Control Purchase Date; and
          (xv) the CUSIP number of the Notes.
     (c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 3.01(a) by delivery of a written notice of purchase (a "Change in Control Purchase Notice") to the Paying Agent at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date, stating:
     (i) the certificate number of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, if Certificated Notes have been issued, or notice compliant with the relevant DTC procedures if the Notes are not certificated;
     (ii) the portion of the principal amount of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof; and
     (iii) that such Note shall be purchased pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in this Article 3.
                  The delivery of such Note to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Change in Control Purchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Change in Control Purchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Change in Control Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.01 only if the Note so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Change in Control Purchase Notice.
                  The Company shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.01, a portion of a Note if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Note also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Note.
 
          Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.01 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder (together with accrued and unpaid interest) on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of delivery of the Note to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 3.01.
          Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Change in Control Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.01(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.02.
          The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Change in Control Purchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof.
          There shall be no purchase of any Notes pursuant to this Section 3.01 if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the Holders of such Notes, of the required Change in Control Purchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Notes (x) with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Indenture, or (y) held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price) in which case, upon such return, the Change in Control Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
     Section 3.02 .
Effect of Change in Control Purchase Notice
     (a) Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Change in Control Purchase Notice specified in Section 3.01(c), the Holder of the Note in respect of which such Change in Control Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Change in Control Purchase Price and any accrued and unpaid interest, with respect to such Note. Such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of (x) the Change in Control Purchase Date, with respect to such Note (provided the conditions in Section 3.01(c) have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Note to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.01(c). Notes in respect of which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Change in Control Purchase Notice unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs.
     (b) A Change in Control Purchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date specifying:
 
     (i) the certificate number of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, if Certificated Notes have been issued, or notice compliant with the relevant DTC procedures, if the Notes are not certificated,
     (ii) the principal amount of the Note with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, and
     (iii) the principal amount, if any, of such Note which remains subject to the original Change in Control Purchase Notice and which has been or will be delivered for purchase by the Company.
          A written notice of withdrawal of a Change in Control Purchase Notice may be in the form set forth in the preceding paragraph.
     Section 3.03 . Prior to 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on or prior to the third Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Trading Day) sufficient to pay the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price of all the Notes or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date.
Deposit of Change in Control Purchase Price
     If the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds money sufficient to pay the Change in Control Purchase Price of a Note on the third Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date in accordance with the terms hereof, then, immediately after the Change in Control Purchase Date, interest on such Note will cease to accrue, whether or not the Note is delivered to the Trustee or the Paying Agent, and all other rights of the holder shall terminate, other than the right to receive the Change in Control Purchase Price upon delivery of the Note.
     Section 3.04 . Any Note which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Note, without service charge, a new Note or Note, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Note so surrendered that is not purchased.
Notes Purchased In Part
     Section 3.05 . When complying with the provisions of Section 3.01 (provided, that such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), and subject to any exemptions available under applicable law, the Company shall:
Covenant To Comply With Securities Laws Upon Repurchase of Notes
 
     (a) comply with Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act, as applicable;
     (b) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) if required under the Exchange Act, as applicable;
     (c) otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under Section 3.01 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified therein.
          To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of Section 3.01, the Company's compliance with such laws and regulations shall not in and of itself cause a breach of its obligations under Section 3.01.
     Section 4.01 .
Payment of Notes
     (a) The Company agrees to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes and the Indenture. Not later than 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the due date of any principal of or interest on any Notes, or any purchase price of the Notes, the Company will deposit with the Trustee (or Paying Agent) money in immediately available funds sufficient to pay such amounts, provided that if the Company or any Affiliate of the Company is acting as Paying Agent, it will, on or before each due date, segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders a sum of money sufficient to pay such amounts until paid to such Holders or otherwise disposed of as provided in the Indenture. In each case the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its compliance with this paragraph.
     (b) An installment of principal or interest will be considered paid on the date due if the Trustee (or Paying Agent, other than the Company or any Affiliate of the Company) holds on that date money designated for and sufficient to pay the installment. If the Company or any Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, an installment of principal or interest will be considered paid on the due date only if paid to the Holders.
     (c) The Company agrees to pay interest on overdue principal, and, to the extent lawful, overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum specified in the Notes plus 2%.
     (d) Payments in respect of the Notes represented by the Global Notes are to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders of the Global Notes. With respect to Certificated Notes, the Company will make all payments by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof or, if no such account is specified, by mailing a check to each Holder's registered address.
 
     Section 4.02 . The Company will maintain in the United States, an office or agency where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange or for presentation for payment and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and the Indenture may be served. The Company hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as such office of the Company. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company fails to maintain any such required office or agency or fails to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served to the Trustee.
Maintenance of Office or Agency
          The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be surrendered or presented for any of such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
     Section 4.03 . The Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence and the existence, rights and franchises of the Company, provided that the Company is not required to preserve any such right or franchise if the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company; and provided further that this Section does not prohibit any transaction otherwise permitted by Section 5.01.
Existence
     Section 4.04 .
Rule 144A Information and Annual Reports
     (a) At any time the Company is not subject to Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Company shall, so long as any of the Notes or any shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall, at such time, constitute "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, promptly provide to the Trustee and shall, upon written request, provide to any Noteholder, beneficial owner or prospective purchaser of Notes or any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of any Notes, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act to facilitate the resale of such Notes or shares of Common Stock pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
     (b) The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, such annual reports, information, documents and other reports that are filed with the Commission, copies of the Company's annual reports (which shall contain audited financial statements of the Company) and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe) that the Company files with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act when and if (and only if) the Company makes such filings with the Commission; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission shall be deemed delivered to the Trustee at the same time the same is filed with the Commission. The Company shall be deemed to have complied with the previous sentence to the extent that the Company shall have filed or furnished such information, documents or reports to the SEC via EDGAR (or any successor electronic
 
delivery procedure). In the event the Company is at any time no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Company shall continue to provide the Trustee and, upon written request, to each Noteholder, annual and quarterly reports containing substantially the same information as would have been required to be filed with the SEC had the Company continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. In such event, such annual and quarterly reports shall be provided at substantially similar times as the Company would have been required to provide reports had it continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements.
     Section 4.05 .
Reports to Trustee
     (a) The Company will deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year a certificate from the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company stating that the officer has conducted or supervised a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries and their performance under the Indenture and that, based upon such review, the Company has fulfilled its obligations hereunder or, if there has been a Default, specifying the Default and its nature and status.
     (b) The Company will deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within 30 days after the Company becomes aware or should reasonably become aware of the occurrence of a Default, an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of the Default, and the action which the Company proposes to take with respect thereto.
     Section 4.06 . The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (in each case, to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law to the extent it would hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Stay, Extension and Usury Laws
     Section 4.07 . If Additional Interest is payable by the Company pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement or pursuant to Section 6.02(c) of this Indenture, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a certificate to that effect stating (i) the amount of such Additional Interest that is payable, (ii) the reason why such Additional Interest is payable and (iii) the date on which such Additional Interest is payable. Unless and until a Trust Officer of the Trustee receives such a certificate, the Trustee may assume without inquiry that no such Additional Interest is payable. If the Company has paid Additional Interest directly to the Persons entitled to it, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a certificate setting forth the particulars of such payment.
Payment of Additional Interest
     Section 5.01 .
Consolidation, Merger, Sale or Lease of Assets by the Company
 
     (a) The Company, without the consent of the Holders of any of the outstanding Notes, may
     (i) consolidate with or merge with or into any Person, or
     (ii) sell, convey, transfer, or otherwise dispose of or lease all or substantially all of its assets as an entirety or substantially an entirety, in one transaction or a series of related transactions, to any Person; provided that
     (b) Upon the consummation of any transaction effected in accordance with these provisions, if the Company is not the continuing Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person will succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under the Indenture and the Notes with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company in the Indenture. Upon such substitution, except in the case of a lease, unless the successor is one or more of the Company's Subsidiaries, the Company will be released from its obligations under the Indenture and the Notes.
     Section 6.01 . An "Event of Default" occurs with respect to the Notes if:
Events of Default
     (a) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of any Note, or any Change in Control Purchase Price when the same becomes due and payable on the Maturity Date, on the Change in Control Purchase Date, upon acceleration, or otherwise;
 
     (b) the Company fails to provide the notice required by Section 3.01(b) on a timely basis;
     (c) the Company defaults in the payment of interest (including any Additional Interest) on any Note when the same becomes due and payable, and the default continues for a period of 30 days;
     (d) the Company fails to comply with any other covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or the Notes and the default or breach continues for a period of 60 consecutive days after written notice to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding;
     (e) the Company fails to make any payment by the end of any applicable grace period after maturity of any Debt in an amount in excess of $100,000,000 and continuance of such failure, or (ii) there is an acceleration of Debt in an amount in excess of $100,000,000 because of a default with respect to such Debt without such Debt having been discharged or such acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled within a period of 30 days after written notice to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding; provided, however, if any such failure or acceleration referred to in (i) or (ii) above shall cease or be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof shall be deemed not to have occurred;
     (f) the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, pursuant to or under or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law, (i) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding or the commencement of any case against it; (iii) consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official of it or for any substantial part of its property; (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; (v) files a petition in bankruptcy or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief; or (vi) consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official; or
     (g) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that (i) is for relief against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding, or adjudicates the Company or any Significant Subsidiary insolvent or bankrupt; (ii) appoints any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its property; or (iii) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days (an event of default specified in clause (f) or (g) a "Bankruptcy Default").
 
     Section 6.02 .
Acceleration
     (a) Subject to Section 6.02(c), if an Event of Default, other than a Bankruptcy Default with respect to the Company, occurs and is continuing under the Indenture, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes, by written notice to the Company (and to the Trustee if the notice is given by the Holders), may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare the principal of and accrued interest on the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Upon a declaration of acceleration, such principal and interest will become immediately due and payable. If a Bankruptcy Default occurs with respect to the Company, the principal of and accrued interest on the Notes then outstanding will become immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
     (b) The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes by written notice to the Company and to the Trustee may waive all past defaults and rescind and annul a declaration of acceleration with respect to such Notes and its consequences if
     (i) all existing Events of Default, other than the nonpayment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes that have become due solely by the declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived, and
     (ii) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction.
     (c) Notwithstanding Section 6.02(a) or any other provision of this Indenture to the contrary, the sole remedy for any violation of any obligations the Company may be deemed to have pursuant to Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be the accrual of Additional Interest on the Notes at a rate of 0.25% per annum, payable semiannually on each Interest Payment Date based on the number of days of the relevant interest period on which the Company is deemed to be in violation of such section. In no event shall Additional Interest accrue on the Notes at a per annum rate in excess of 0.25% per annum pursuant to both this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement, taken together, regardless of the number of events or circumstances giving rise to the requirement to pay such Additional Interest.
     Section 6.03 . If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue, in its own name or as trustee of an express trust, any available remedy by proceeding at law or in equity to collect the payment of principal of and interest on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or the Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding.
Other Remedies
     Section 6.04 . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 6.02, 6.07 and 9.02(b), the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may, by notice to the Trustee, waive an existing Default and its consequences. Upon such waiver, the Default will cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom will be
Waiver of Past Defaults
 
deemed to have been cured, but no such waiver will extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     Section 6.05 . The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or the Indenture, that may involve the Trustee in personal liability, or that the Trustee determines in good faith may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of Holders of Notes not joining in the giving of such direction, and may take any other action it deems proper that is not inconsistent with any such direction received from Holders of Notes.
Control by Majority
     Section 6.06 . A Holder may not institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to the Indenture or the Notes, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy under the Indenture or the Notes, unless:
Limitation on Suits
     (i) the Holder has previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default;
     (ii) Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of the Event of Default in its own name as Trustee under the Indenture;
     (iii) Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against any costs, liabilities or expenses to be incurred in compliance with such request;
     (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
     (v) during such 60-day period, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes have not given the Trustee a direction that is inconsistent with such written request.
     Section 6.07 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the right of a Holder of a Note to receive payment of principal of or interest on its Note on or after the Stated Maturities thereof, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, may not be impaired or affected without the consent of that Holder.
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
     Section 6.08 . If an Event of Default in payment of principal or interest specified in clause (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust for the whole amount of principal and accrued interest remaining unpaid, together with interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, overdue installments of interest, in each case at the rate specified in the Notes, and such further amount as is sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of
Collection Suit by Trustee
 
collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and any other amounts due the Trustee hereunder.
     Section 6.09 . The Trustee may file proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee hereunder) and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relating to the Company or its creditors or property, and is entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money, securities or other property payable or deliverable upon conversion or exchange of the Notes or upon any such claims. Any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, if the Trustee consents to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agent and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee hereunder. Nothing in the Indenture will be deemed to empower the Trustee to authorize or consent to, or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder, any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
     Section 6.10 . If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
Priorities
     First: to the Trustee for all amounts due hereunder;
     Second: to Holders for amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and interest on the Notes, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal and interest; and
     Third: to the Company or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
          The Trustee, upon written notice to the Company, may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section. At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Noteholder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
     Section 6.11 . If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted a proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under the Indenture and the proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to the Holder, then, subject to any determination in the proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders will be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders will continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
     Section 6.12 . In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under the Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit (other than the Trustee) to file an
Undertaking for Costs
 
undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys fees, against any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section does not apply to a suit by a Holder to enforce payment of principal of or interest on any Note on the respective due dates, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes.
     Section 6.13 . No right or remedy conferred or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders under this Indenture is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and all such rights and remedies are, to the extent permitted by law, cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or exercise of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, will not prevent the concurrent assertion or exercise of any other right or remedy.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
     Section 6.14 . No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default will impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
     Section 7.01 .
General
     (a) The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee are as provided by the Trust Indenture Act and as set forth herein. Whether or not expressly so provided, every provision of the Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee is subject to this Article.
     (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in the Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations will be read into the Indenture against the Trustee. In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise those rights and powers vested in it by the Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
     (c) No provision of the Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct.
 
     Section 7.02 . Subject to Trust Indenture Act Sections 315(a) through (d):
Certain Rights of Trustee
     (a) In the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may rely, and will be protected in acting or refraining from acting, upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document, but, in the case of any document which is specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to any provision hereof, the Trustee shall examine the document to determine whether it conforms to the requirements of the Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). The Trustee, in its discretion, may make further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it sees fit.
     (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel conforming to Section 12.06 and the Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the certificate or opinion.
     (c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and will not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
     (d) The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders, unless such Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
     (e) The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers or for any action it takes or omits to take in accordance with the direction of the Holders in accordance with Section 6.05 relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under the Indenture.
     (f) The Trustee may consult with counsel, and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel will be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
     (g) No provision of the Indenture will require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of its rights or powers, unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
     Section 7.03 . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the
Individual Rights of Trustee
 
Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee is subject to Trust Indenture Act Sections 310(b) and 311. For purposes of Trust Indenture Act Section 311(b)(4) and (6):
     (a) "cash transaction" means any transaction in which full payment for goods or securities sold is made within seven days after delivery of the goods or securities in currency or in checks or other orders drawn upon banks or bankers and payable upon demand; and
     (b) "self-liquidating paper" means any draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or obligation which is made, drawn, negotiated or incurred for the purpose of financing the purchase, processing, manufacturing, shipment, storage or sale of goods, wares or merchandise and which is secured by documents evidencing title to, possession of, or a lien upon, the goods, wares or merchandise or the receivables or proceeds arising from the sale of the goods, wares or merchandise previously constituting the security, provided the security is received by the Trustee simultaneously with the creation of the creditor relationship arising from the making, drawing, negotiating or incurring of the draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or obligation.
     Section 7.04 . The Trustee (i) makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of the Indenture or the Notes, (ii) is not accountable for the Company's use or application of the proceeds from the Notes and (iii) is not responsible for any statement in the Notes other than its certificate of authentication.
Trustee's Disclaimer
     Section 7.05 . If any Default occurs and is continuing and is known to the Trustee, the Trustee will send notice of the Default to each Holder within 90 days after it occurs, unless the Default has been cured; provided that, except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Note, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors of the Trustee in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Holders. Notice to Holders under this Section will be given in the manner and to the extent provided in Trust Indenture Act Section 313(c).
Notice of Default
     Section 7.06 . Within 60 days after each May 15, beginning with May 15, 2007, the Trustee will mail to each Holder, as provided in Trust Indenture Act Section 313(c), a brief report dated as of such May 15, if required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a), and file such reports with each stock exchange upon which its Notes are listed and with the Commission as required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(d).
Reports by Trustee to Holders
     Section 7.07 .
Compensation and Indemnity
     (a) The Company will pay the Trustee compensation as agreed upon in writing for its services. The compensation of the Trustee is not limited by any law on compensation of a Trustee of an express trust. The Company will reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee, including the reasonable compensation and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
 
     (b) The Company will indemnify the Trustee for, and hold it harmless against, any loss or liability or expense incurred by it without negligence or bad faith on its part arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the Indenture and its duties under the Indenture and the Notes, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability and of complying with any process served upon it or any of its officers in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties under the Indenture and the Notes.
     (c) To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee will have a lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, in its capacity as Trustee, except money or property held in trust to pay principal of, and interest on particular Notes.
     Section 7.08 .
Replacement of Trustee
     (a) (i) The Trustee may resign at any time by written notice to the Company.
     (ii) The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by written notice to the Trustee.
     (iii) If the Trustee is no longer eligible under Section 7.10 or in the circumstances described in Trust Indenture Act Section 310(b), any Holder that satisfies the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(b) may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
     (iv) The Company may remove the Trustee if: (A) the Trustee is no longer eligible under Section 7.10; (B) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent; (C) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or (D) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee will become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section.
     (b) If the Trustee has been removed by the Holders, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes may appoint a successor Trustee with the consent of the Company. Otherwise, if the Trustee resigns or is removed, or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company will promptly appoint a successor Trustee. If the successor Trustee does not deliver its written acceptance within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
     (c) Upon delivery by the successor Trustee of a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company, (i) the retiring Trustee will transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07(c), (ii) the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee will
 
become effective, and (iii) the successor Trustee will have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under the Indenture. Upon request of any successor Trustee, the Company will execute any and all reasonable instruments for fully and vesting in and confirming to the successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts. The Company will give notice of any resignation and any removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee to all Holders, and include in the notice the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
     (d) Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 will continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
     (e) The Trustee agrees to give the notices provided for in, and otherwise comply with, Trust Indenture Act Section 310(b).
     Section 7.09 . If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business (including the administration of this Indenture) to, another corporation or national banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation or national banking association without any further act will be the successor Trustee with the same effect as if the successor Trustee had been named as the Trustee in the Indenture.
Successor Trustee by Merger
     Section 7.10 . The Indenture must always have a Trustee that satisfies the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a) and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $25,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
Eligibility
     Section 7.11 . The Trustee will not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as it may agree with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law and except for money held in trust under Article 8.
Money Held in Trust
     Section 8.01 .
Satisfaction and Discharge of the Indenture
     (a) This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect if either: (i) all outstanding Notes (other than Notes replaced pursuant to Section 2.07) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or (ii) all outstanding Notes have become due and payable on the Maturity Date or upon repurchase pursuant to Article 3, and the Company irrevocably deposits, prior to the applicable date on which such payment is due and payable, with the Trustee or the Paying Agent (if the Paying Agent is not the Company or any of its Affiliates) Cash, and, if applicable as herein provided and in accordance herewith, such other consideration, sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all outstanding Notes (other than Notes replaced pursuant to Section 2.07) on the Maturity Date or the Change
 
in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be; provided that, in either case, the Company pays to the Trustee all other sums payable hereunder by the Company.
     (b) The Company may exercise its satisfaction and discharge option with respect to the Notes only if:
     (i) no Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall exist on the date of such deposit;
     (ii) such deposit shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a Default or Event of Default under, this Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound; and
     (iii) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel (which may rely upon such Officers' Certificate as to the absence of Defaults and Events of Default and as to any factual matters), each stating that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
          Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 7.07 shall survive and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to clause (a) of this Section, the provisions of Section 2.03, Section 2.04, Section 2.05, Section 2.06, Section 2.07, Section 2.12, Section 3.01, Article 5, Article 10 and this Article 8, shall survive and the Company shall be required to make all payments and deliveries required by such Sections or Articles, as the case may be, irrespective of any prior satisfaction and discharge until the Notes have been paid in full.
     Section 8.02 . Subject to the provisions of Section 8.03, the Trustee or a Paying Agent shall hold in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, all money deposited with it pursuant to Section 8.01 and shall apply the deposited money in accordance with this Indenture and the Notes to the payment of the principal amount of and interest on the Notes.
Application of Trust Money
     Section 8.03 . The Trustee and each Paying Agent shall promptly pay to the Company upon request any excess money (x) deposited with them pursuant to Section 8.01 and (y) held by them at any time.
Repayment to Company
The Trustee and each Paying Agent shall also pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of the principal amount of Notes or interest thereon that remains unclaimed for two years after a right to such money has matured (which maturity shall occur, for the avoidance of doubt, on the Maturity Date or the Change in Control Purchase Date (with respect to any Notes repurchased pursuant to Article 3)); provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such payment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be mailed to each Holder entitled to such money or publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of New York notice that such money remains unclaimed and that after a date specified therein, which shall be at least 30 days from the date of such mailing or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the
 
Company. After payment to the Company, Holders entitled to money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
     Section 8.04 . If the Trustee or any Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 8.02 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.01 until such time as the Trustee or such Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02; provided, however, that if the Company has made any payment of the principal amount of or interest on any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive any such payment from the money held by the Trustee or such Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
     Section 9.01 . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes without notice to or the consent of any Noteholder:
Amendments Without Consent of Holders
     (a) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency in the Indenture or the Notes;
     (b) to comply with Article 5 or Section 10.12;
     (c) to comply with the Trust Indenture Act or any amendment thereto, or to comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act;
     (d) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of an appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee;
     (e) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes;
     (f) to secure the Notes;
     (g) to add guarantees with respect to the Notes;
     (h) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
     (i) to add any additional Events of Default;
     (j) to comply with the rules of any applicable securities depositary; or
 
     (k) to make any other change that does not materially adversely affect the rights of any Holder.
     Section 9.02 .
Amendments With Consent of Holders
     (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.07 or paragraph (b), the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture and the Notes with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes by written notice to the Trustee may waive future compliance by the Company with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes.
     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a), without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or waiver may not
     (i) reduce the principal amount of, Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to, or any premium or interest payment on any Note,
     (ii) make any Note payable in currency or securities other than that stated in the Note,
     (iii) change the Stated Maturities of any installment of principal of any Note,
     (iv) make any change that adversely affects the Holders' right to convert any Note,
     (v) make any change that adversely affects the Holders' right to require the Company to purchase the Notes in accordance with the terms thereof and this Indenture,
     (vi) impair the right to convert or receive any principal or interest payment with respect to, a Note, or right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment with respect to, or conversion of, the Notes, or
     (vii) make any change in the percentage of the principal amount of the Notes required for amendments or waivers.
     (c) It is not necessary for Noteholders to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but is sufficient if their consent approves the substance thereof.
     (d) An amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section will become effective on receipt by the Trustee of written consents from the Holders of the requisite percentage in principal amount of the outstanding Notes. After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section becomes effective, the Company will send to the Holders affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. The Company will send supplemental indentures to Holders upon request. Any
 
failure of the Company to send such notice, or any defect therein, will not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture or waiver.
     (e) With respect to the amendments set forth in Section 9.01 and this Section 9.02, no such amendment to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency made solely to conform the Indenture to the provisions of the description of the Notes as set forth in any final offering memorandum will be deemed to adversely affect the interests of the Noteholders.
     Section 9.03 .
Effect of Consent
     (a) After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, it will bind every Holder unless it is of the type requiring the consent of each Holder affected. If the amendment, supplement or waiver is of the type requiring the consent of each Holder affected, the amendment, supplement or waiver shall bind each Holder that has consented to it and every subsequent Holder of a Note that evidences the same debt as the Note of the consenting Holder.
     (b) If an amendment, supplement or waiver changes the terms of a Note, the Trustee may require the Holder to deliver it to the Trustee so that the Trustee may place an appropriate notation of the changed terms on the Note and return it to the Holder, or exchange it for a new Note that reflects the changed terms. The Trustee may also place an appropriate notation on any Note thereafter authenticated. However, the effectiveness of the amendment, supplement or waiver is not affected by any failure to annotate or exchange Notes in this fashion.
     Section 9.04 . The Trustee is entitled to receive, and will be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Article is authorized or permitted by the Indenture. If the Trustee has received such an Opinion of Counsel, it shall sign the amendment, supplement or waiver so long as the same does not adversely affect the rights of the Trustee. The Trustee may, but is not obligated to, execute any amendment, supplement or waiver that affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Indenture.
Trustee's Rights and Obligations
     Section 9.05 . Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
Conformity With Trust Indenture Act
     Section 9.06 . Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates may, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration, whether by way of interest, fee or otherwise, to any Holder for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of the Indenture or the Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid or agreed to be paid to all Holders of the Notes that consent, waive or agree to amend such term or provision within the time period set forth in the solicitation documents relating to the consent, waiver or amendment.
Payments for Consents
 
     Section 10.01 . A Holder of a Note may convert such Note at any time on or prior to the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date upon the occurrence of any of the events set forth in paragraph 7(a), paragraph 7(b), paragraph 7(c), paragraph 7(d) or paragraph 7(e) of the Notes, subject to the provisions of this Article 10. Except as set forth below under Section 10.11, if a Holder surrenders its Notes for conversion, such Holder will receive, in respect of each $1,000 of principal amount of Notes to be converted:
Conversion Privilege
     (a) Cash in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) $1,000 and (B) the Conversion Value (the "Required Cash Amount"), and
     (b) if the Conversion Value is greater than $1,000, a number of shares of Common Stock (the "Remaining Shares"), equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the twenty consecutive Trading Days in the Conversion Reference Period, subject to the right of the Company to deliver Cash in lieu of all or a portion of such Remaining Shares as described below.
          By the Close of Business on the Business Day prior to the first scheduled Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company may specify a percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in Cash (the "Cash Percentage") and will notify the Noteholder of such Cash Percentage through written notice to the Trustee (the "Cash Percentage Notice"). If the Company elects to specify a Cash Percentage, (x) the amount of Cash that the Company will deliver pursuant to clause (b) of this Section 10.01 in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will equal the product of: (i) the Cash Percentage, (ii) the Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day, and (iii) the Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock for such Trading Day and (y) the number of shares of Common Stock deliverable in respect of each Business Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period (in lieu of the full Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day pursuant to clause (b) above) will be a percentage of the Daily Share Amount equal to 100% minus the Cash Percentage. If the Company does not specify a Cash Percentage by the Close of Business on the Trading Day prior to the first scheduled Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company shall settle 100% of the Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period with shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that the Company will pay Cash in lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable upon conversion of such Note, pursuant to Section 10.03 hereof. The Company may, at its option, revoke any Cash Percentage Notice through written notice to the Trustee by the Close of Business on the Business Day prior to the scheduled first Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period.
     (c) A Holder may convert a portion of the principal amount of a Note if the portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to conversion of all of a Note also apply to conversion of a portion of a Note.
 
     (d) In the event of a stock split, combination, dividend or any other event resulting in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09 or 10.10, during the applicable Conversion Reference Period, appropriate adjustment to the equation for calculating Conversion Value and Remaining Shares shall be made, as determined by the Board of Directors.
     (e) Notes with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder may be converted pursuant to this Article 10 only if the Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with Section 3.02.
     (f) Whenever any event described in paragraph 7(a), paragraph 7(b), paragraph 7(c), paragraph 7(d) or paragraph 7(e) of the Notes shall occur such that the Notes become convertible as provided in this Article 10, the Company shall (x) issue a press release and use its reasonable efforts to post such information on its website or otherwise publicly disclose this information or (y) promptly deliver, in accordance with Section 12.03, written notice of the convertibility of the Notes to the Trustee and each Noteholder and to the Conversion Agent for the benefit of the Noteholders, which press release, website posting, public disclosure or written notice, as the case may be, shall include:
     (i) a description of such event;
     (ii) a description of the periods during which the Notes shall be convertible as provided in paragraph 7(a), paragraph 7(b), paragraph 7(c), paragraph 7(d) or paragraph 7(e) of the Notes as a result of such event;
     (iii) a statement of whether an adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall take effect in respect of such event pursuant to Section 10.13; and
     (iv) the procedures Noteholders must follow to convert their Notes in accordance with this Article 10, including the name and address of the Conversion Agent.
     Section 10.02 .
Conversion Procedure
     (a) To convert a Note represented by a Global Note, a Noteholder must convert by book-entry transfer to the Conversion Agent through the facilities of the DTC. To convert a Note that is represented by a Certificated Note, a Noteholder must (1) complete and manually sign a Conversion Notice, a form of which is on the back of the Note, and deliver such Conversion Notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Note to the Conversion Agent, (3) if required by the Conversion Agent, furnish appropriate endorsement and transfer documents, and (4) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes. The Conversion Agent shall, within one (1) Business Day of any Conversion Date, provide notice to the Company, as set forth in Section 12.03, of the occurrence of such Conversion Date.
     (b) As promptly as practicable following the end of the Conversion Reference Period applicable to the Notes being converted, the Company shall deliver to the Holder, through the Conversion Agent, the Required Cash Amount and Remaining Shares, if any
 
(including Cash in lieu of Remaining Shares pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof and Cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to Section 10.03 hereof). The person in whose name the certificate representing any shares is registered shall be treated as a stockholder of record on and after the last Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period; , , that no surrender of a Note on any date when the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive the Remaining Shares upon such conversion as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock on such date, but such surrender shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive such shares of Common Stock as the record holder or holders thereof for all purposes at the Close of Business on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open. Upon conversion of a Note, such person shall no longer be a Holder of such Note.
provided
however
     (c) No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on, or other distributions with respect to, any Common Stock except as provided in this Article 10. Upon conversion of a Note, a Noteholder will not receive, except as described below, any Cash payment representing accrued interest. Instead, accrued interest will be deemed paid by the Cash and/or shares of common stock, if any, received by the Noteholder upon conversion. Delivery to the Noteholder of such Cash and/or shares of Common Stock will thus be deemed (1) to satisfy the Company's obligation to pay the principal amount of a Note, and (2) to satisfy the Company's obligation to pay accrued and unpaid interest on the Note. As a result, upon conversion of a Note, accrued and unpaid interest on such Note is deemed paid in full rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited.
     (d) Holders of Notes surrendered for conversion during the period from the Close of Business on any Regular Record Date next preceding any Interest Payment Date to the opening of business of such Interest Payment Date will receive the semiannual interest payable on such Notes on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion, and such Notes upon surrender must be accompanied by funds equal to the amount of such payment; provided that no such payment need be made (x) in connection with any conversion following the Regular Record Date immediately preceding the Maturity Date, (y) if the Company has specified a Change in Control Purchase Date that is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date or (z) to the extent of any Defaulted Interest, if any Defaulted Interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Note. The Company shall not be required to convert any Notes that are surrendered for conversion without payment of interest as required by this paragraph.
     (e) If the Holder converts more than one Note at the same time, the Required Cash Amount and the Remaining Shares, if any (together with the Cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) shall be based on the total principal amount of the Notes converted.
     (f) If the last day on which a Note may be converted is a Legal Holiday, the Note may be surrendered on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday.
 
     (g) Upon surrender of a Note that is converted in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder, a new Note in an authorized denomination equal in principal amount to the unconverted portion of the Note surrendered.
     Section 10.03 . The Company will not issue a fractional share of Common Stock upon conversion of a Note. Instead, the Company will deliver Cash in lieu of a fractional share based on arithmetic average of the Volume Weighted Average Price of Common Stock for each of the twenty consecutive Trading Days of the Conversion Reference Period, rounded to the nearest whole cent (the "Average Price").
Fractional Shares
     Section 10.04 . If a Holder converts a Note, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of any shares of Common Stock upon the conversion. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which will be due because the Common Stock is to be delivered in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any tax withholding required by law or regulations.
Taxes On Conversion
     Section 10.05 .
Company To Provide Common Stock
          The Company shall, prior to issuance of any Notes under this Article 10, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the delivery in respect of all outstanding Notes of the number of Remaining Shares due upon conversion (assuming, for purposes of this sentence, that the Company elects to deliver solely shares of Common Stock in respect of its obligation to deliver the Remaining Shares).
          All shares of Common Stock delivered upon payment of the Remaining Shares, if applicable, upon conversion of the Notes shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim.
          The Company will comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the offer and delivery of shares of Common Stock upon payment of the Remaining Shares, if applicable, upon conversion of Notes, if any, and will list or cause to have quoted such shares of Common Stock on each national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market or such other market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
          In addition, if any shares of Common Stock which would be issuable upon conversion of Notes hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority before such shares of Common Stock may be issued upon such conversion, the Company will cause such shares of Common Stock to be duly registered or approved, as the case may be.
 
     Section 10.06 .
Adjustment for Change In Capital Stock
      (a) If the Company shall, at any time and from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, issue a dividend or makes a distribution on its Common Stock payable in shares of its Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate at the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution will be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Rate by a fraction:
     (i) the numerator of which shall be the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution, plus the total number of shares of Common Stock constituting such dividend or other distribution; and
     (ii) the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding such Ex-Dividend Date.
          If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 10.06(a) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, in no event shall the Conversion Rate be decreased pursuant to this Section 10.06(a).
     (b) If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, subdivide or reclassify its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares of Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day upon which such subdivision becomes effective shall be proportionately increased, and conversely, if the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, combine or reclassify its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares of Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day upon which such combination or reclassification becomes effective shall be proportionately decreased. In each such case, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Rate by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after giving effect to such subdivision, combination or reclassification and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such subdivision or combination. Such increase or reduction, as the case may be, shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day upon which such subdivision, combination or reclassification becomes effective.
     Section 10.07 . If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while the Notes are outstanding, distribute rights to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, to purchase shares of Common Stock at less than the average of the Closing Prices for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately preceding the first public announcement of
Adjustment for Rights Issue
 
the distribution, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution by a fraction:
          Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution.
          To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered pursuant to such rights or upon the expiration or termination of such rights, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights been made on the basis of the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. In the event that such rights are not so distributed, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution had not occurred. In determining whether any rights entitle the holders to purchase shares of Common Stock at less than the average of the Closing Prices for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately preceding the first public announcement of the relevant distribution, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received for such rights and the value of such consideration if other than Cash, to be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors. Except as set forth in this paragraph, in no event shall the Conversion Rate be decreased pursuant to this Section 10.07.
     Section 10.08 .
Adjustment for Other Distributions
     (a) If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while the Notes are outstanding, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock any of its Capital Stock, assets, or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company (excluding (w) any distribution of Capital Stock of, or similar equity interests in, a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company referred to in Section 10.08(b) below, (x) any distributions described in Section 10.06(a) above, (y) any rights described in Section 10.07 above, (z) any cash dividends or other cash distributions referred to in
 
Section 10.09 below) (such Capital Stock, assets, debt securities or rights to purchase securities of the Company being distributed hereinafter in this Section 10.08 called the "Distributed Assets"), the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall be equal to the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date with respect to such distribution by a fraction:
     (i) the numerator of which will be the Current Market Price of the Common Stock, and
     (ii) the denominator of which will be the Current Market Price of the Common Stock minus the fair market value, as determined by the Board of Directors, of the portion of Distributed Assets so distributed applicable to one share of the Common Stock (determined on the basis of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such Ex-Dividend Date).
          Such increase shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. In the event that such distribution is not so made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such distribution had not been declared. Except as set forth in the prior sentence, in no event shall the Conversion Rate be decreased pursuant to this Section 10.08(a).
          If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any distribution for purposes of this Section 10.08(a) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any Distributed Assets comprising all or part of such distribution, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period (the "Reference Period") used in computing the Current Market Price for purposes of clause (i) above, unless the Board of Directors determines in good faith that determining the fair market value during the Reference Period would not be in the best interest of the Holders.
     (b) With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 10.08 where there has been a payment of a dividend or other distribution on Common Stock of shares of capital stock of, or similar equity interests in, a subsidiary or other business unit of the Company, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the record date with respect to such distribution by a fraction:
     (i) the numerator of which shall be (a) the average of the closing sale prices of the capital stock or similar equity interest distributed to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock over the five Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution on the principal national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which such securities are then listed or traded, plus (b) the average of the Closing Prices over the five Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution (the "Average Sale Price"), and
 
     (ii) the denominator of which shall be the Average Sale Price.
     Section 10.09 . If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its shares of Common Stock, Cash (excluding (x) any distributions described in Section 10.10 below or (y) any dividend or distribution in connection with the Company's liquidation, dissolution or winding up), then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the opening of business of the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution by a fraction:
Adjustment for Cash Dividends
                   Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. In the event that such distribution is not so made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
     Section 10.10 . In case the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall, at any time or from time to time, while any of the Notes are outstanding, distribute Cash or other consideration in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer made by the Company or any Subsidiary for all or any portion of the Common Stock, where the sum of the aggregate amount of such Cash distributed and the aggregate fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and set forth in a Board Resolution), as of the Expiration Date (as defined below), of such other consideration distributed (such sum, the "Aggregate Amount") expressed as an amount per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged, and not withdrawn, pursuant to such tender offer or exchange offer as of the Expiration Time (as defined below) (such tendered or exchanged shares of Common Stock, the "Purchased Shares") exceeds the Closing Price per share of the Common Stock on the first Trading Day immediately following the last date (such last date, the "Expiration Date") on which tenders or exchanges could have been made pursuant to such tender offer or exchange offer (as the same may be amended through the Expiration Date), then, and in each case, immediately after the close of business on such date, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the Trading Day immediately following the Expiration Date by a fraction:
Adjustment for Certain Tender Offers
 
An adjustment, if any, to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 10.10 shall become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the second Trading Day immediately following the Expiration Date. In the event that the Company or a Subsidiary is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender offer or exchange offer, but the Company or such Subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases, or all such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such tender offer or exchange offer had not been made. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, if the application of this Section 10.10 to any tender offer or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender offer or exchange offer under this Section 10.10.
     Section 10.11 . Rights or warrants distributed by the Company to all holders of Common Stock entitling the holders thereof to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Company's Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights, options or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events ("Trigger Event"): (i) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (ii) are not exercisable; and (iii) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event, whereupon such rights, options and warrants shall be deemed to have been distributed and an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made under Section 10.08, except as set forth in Section 10.23. If any such right, option or warrant, including any such existing rights, options or warrants distributed prior to the date of this Indenture, are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights, options or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Ex-Dividend Date with respect to new rights, options or warrants with such rights (and a termination or expiration of the existing rights, options or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof), except as set forth in Section 10.23. In addition, except as set forth in Section 10.23, in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights, options or warrants, or any Trigger Event or other event (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 was made (including any adjustment contemplated in Section 10.23), (1) in the case of any such rights, options or warrants
Provisions Governing Adjustment to Conversion Rate
 
that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a Cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common Stock with respect to such rights, options or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights, options or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights, options or warrants that shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights, options and warrants had not been issued.
     Section 10.12 . If any of the following events (any such event, a "Disposition Event") occurs:
Disposition Events
     (a) any reclassification of the Common Stock (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination);
     (b) any merger, consolidation or other combination involving the Company; or
     (c) any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company to any other Person;
in each case, as a result of which all of the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive Cash, securities or other property for their shares of Common Stock, the Company or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture, if such supplemental indenture is then required to so comply) providing that notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.01, and subject to the provisions of paragraph 7 of the Notes, the Conversion Value with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Notes converted following the effective date of any Disposition Event, shall be calculated based on the kind and amount of Cash, securities or other property (collectively, "Reference Property") received upon the occurrence of such Disposition Event by a holder of Common Stock holding, immediately prior to the transaction, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate immediately prior to such Disposition Event; provided that if the Disposition Event provides the holders of Common Stock with the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the Reference Property shall be comprised of the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of the Common Stock.
     If the Conversion Value of the Notes shall be based on Reference Property as set forth above, the Company's obligation to deliver the consideration described in Section 10.01 with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Notes tendered for conversion after the effective date of any such Disposition Event, shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in Section 10.01, be settled in Cash and units of Reference Property (if applicable) and the Company shall deliver, as promptly as practicable immediately following the last Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period:
 
that, in each case, (x) the Conversion Value and the Daily Share Amounts, shall be determined as if the words "Volume Weighted Average Price per share of Common Stock" in the definition of each such term were replaced by the words "Volume Weighted Average Price per unit of Reference Property composed of the kind and amount of Cash, securities or other property that a holder of one share of Common Stock immediately prior to such Disposition Event would have owned or been entitled to receive", (y) the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be determined with respect to such a unit of Reference Property and (z) references to "Remaining Shares" and "shares of Common Stock" were instead references to "a unit of Reference Property composed of the kind and amount of Cash, securities or other property that a holder of one share of Common Stock immediately prior to such Disposition Event would have owned or been entitled to receive."
provided
          Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 10. If, in the case of any such Disposition Event, the stock or other securities and assets receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock includes shares of stock or other securities and assets of a Person other than the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, in such Disposition Event, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other Person and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Noteholders as the Board of Directors shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing.
          The Company shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Noteholder, at the address of such Noteholder as it appears on the register of the Notes maintained by the Registrar, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture.
          The above provisions of this Section 10.12 shall similarly apply to successive Disposition Events.
If this Section 10.12 applies to any event or occurrence, none of Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 shall apply.
 
     Section 10.13 .
Adjustment to Conversion Rate Upon Change in Control Transactions, Discretionary Adjustment
     (a) If, after the Issue Date, a Change in Control occurs and a Holder elects to convert its Notes in connection with such Change in Control, the Company will increase the Conversion Rate for the Notes surrendered for conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the "Make-Whole Shares"), as described in this Section 10.13. A conversion of Notes will be deemed for the purposes of this Section 10.13 to be "in connection with" a Change in Control transaction if the notice of conversion of the Notes is received by the Conversion Agent from and including the effective date of the Change in Control transaction up to and including the Trading Day prior to the related Change in Control Purchase Date.
     (b) The number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by reference to the table below and is based on the date which such Change in Control transaction becomes effective (the "Change in Control Effective Date") and the price paid per share of Common Stock in the Change in Control (in the case of a change in control described in clause (ii) of the definition thereof), or in the case of all other Changes in Control, the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock over the five Trading-Day period ending on the Trading Day preceding the relevant Change in Control Effective Date (the "Stock Price"). If holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the case of a Change in Control described in clause (ii) of the definition thereof, the Stock Price shall be the Cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock over the five Trading-Day period ending on the Trading Day preceding the relevant Change in Control Effective Date.
     (c) The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the table below will be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices will equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. In addition, the number of Make-Whole Shares on the table below will be subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 10.06 through Section 10.10.
 
     (d) If the exact Stock Prices and Change in Control Effective Dates are not set forth in the table, then: (i) if the Stock Price is between two Stock Prices in the table or the Change in Control Effective Date is between two Change in Control Effective Dates in the table, the Make-Whole Shares issued upon conversion of the Notes will be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Prices and the earlier and later Change in Control Effective Dates in the table, based on a 365-day year, (ii) if the Stock Price is in excess of $32.00 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 10.13(c), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Notes; and (iii) if the Stock Price is less than $15.61 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 10.13(c), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Notes.
     (e) The Company may make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by Sections 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09 and 10.10 as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock (or rights to acquire stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes.
     (f) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time if the period is at least twenty (20) days, the increase is irrevocable during the period and the Board of Directors shall have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of the Company, which determination shall be conclusive. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Company shall mail to holders of record of the Notes a notice of the increase at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect, and such notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect.
     Section 10.14 . No adjustment in the Conversion Rate need be made unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of the Conversion Rate. Any adjustments that are less than 1% of the Conversion Rate shall be carried forward and taken into account in determining any subsequent adjustment. In addition, the Company shall make any carry forward adjustments not otherwise effected upon required purchase of the notes pursuant to Section 3.01, and on April 5, 2011.
When Adjustment May Be Deferred
     Section 10.15 .
When No Adjustment Required
     (a) No adjustment need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 if Noteholders participate, without conversion, in the transaction or event that would otherwise give rise to an adjustment pursuant to such Section at the same time as holders of the Common Stock participate with respect to such transaction or event and on the same terms as holders of the Common Stock participate with respect to such transaction or event as if Noteholders, at such time, held a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate at such time.
 
     (b) No adjustment need be made for the issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock or carrying the right to purchase Common Stock or any such security.
     (c) No adjustment need be made for rights to purchase Common Stock pursuant to a Company plan for reinvestment of dividends or interest.
     (d) No adjustment need be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock.
     (e) To the extent the Notes become convertible pursuant to this Article 10 into Cash, no adjustment need be made thereafter as to the Cash. Interest will not accrue on the Cash.
     (f) The Conversion Rate shall not exceed 64.0615 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes on account of adjustments to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Article 10, subject to the adjustments set forth in Sections 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09 and 10.10 above. Further, notwithstanding anything in this Article 10 (subject only to the provisions of the second succeeding sentence), the conversion rate shall not exceed 103.4974 per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes (provided that if and to the extent that the Initial Purchasers' option to purchase additional Notes or additional 2013 Notes is exercised, the maximum conversion rate shall be ratably decreased, such that in the case of a full exercise by the Initial Purchasers of their option to purchase the Notes and the 2013 Notes, the conversion rate shall not exceed 94.0886 per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes, other than as a result of adjustments to the Conversion Rate in the manner set forth in Sections 10.06, 10.07 and 10.08 (such limitations herein referred to as the "Conversion Rate Cap"). The Company shall not take any action if, as a result of such action, the adjustment to the Conversion Rate that would otherwise be made pursuant to the provisions of 10.09 or 10.10 would be limited by the Conversion Rate Cap, unless such action would not result in a violation of NASD Rule 4350 as such rule or successor to such rule may be then in effect and interpreted by the NASD. If such action would not result in a violation of NASD Rule 4350, then the Conversion Rate Cap shall not apply to such action taken by the Company.
     Section 10.16 . Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Company shall promptly mail to Noteholders a notice of the adjustment. The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent such notice and a certificate from the Company's independent public accountants briefly stating the facts requiring the adjustment and the manner of computing it. The certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such certificate except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof.
Notice of Adjustment
     Section 10.17 . If (a) the Company takes any action that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09 or 10.10 (unless no adjustment is to occur pursuant to Section 10.14 or Section 10.15), (b) the Company takes any action that would require a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section
Notice of Certain Transactions
 
10.12, or (c) there is a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, then the Company shall mail to Noteholders and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice stating the proposed Ex-Dividend Date for a dividend or distribution or the proposed effective date of a subdivision, combination, reclassification, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, transfer, liquidation or dissolution. The Company shall file and mail the notice at least 15 days before such date; provided that if the Company elects to make a distribution described in Section 10.07, Section 10.08, or Section 10.09, and in the case of Section 10.08 or Section 10.09, that has a per share value equal to more than 10% of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on the day preceding the declaration date for such distribution, the Company shall give notice to Holders at least 20 Trading Days prior to the Ex-dividend Date for such distribution. Failure to file or mail the notice or any defect in it shall not affect the validity of the transaction.
     Section 10.18 . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Note shall have the right to convert its Note in accordance with this Article 10 and paragraph 7 of the Notes and to bring an action for the enforcement of any such right to convert, and such rights shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
Right of Holders to Convert
     Section 10.19 . The Company shall be responsible for making all calculations called for hereunder and under the Notes. These calculations include, but are not limited to, Conversion Value, the Conversion Date, the Volume Weighted Average Price, the Conversion Reference Period, the Closing Price, the Conversion Price, the Required Cash Amount, the Applicable Conversion Rate and the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, to be issued upon conversion of the Notes. The Company shall make all these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, the Company's calculations will be final and binding on Noteholders. The Company shall provide a schedule of the Company's calculations to the Trustee, and the Trustee is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of the Company's calculations without independent verification.
Company Determination Final
     Section 10.20 . The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article 10 should be made, how it should be made or what it should be. The Trustee has no duty to determine whether a supplemental indenture under Section 10.12 need be entered into or whether any provisions of any supplemental indenture are correct. The Trustee shall not be accountable for and makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Notes. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with this Article 10. Each Conversion Agent shall have the same protection under this Section 10.20 as the Trustee.
Trustee's Adjustment Disclaimer
     Section 10.21 .
Simultaneous Adjustments
     (a) For purposes of Section 10.08, Section 10.06(a) and Section 10.07, any dividend or distribution to which Section 10.08 is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights, options or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the debt securities, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock or rights (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 10.08 with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by (2)
 
a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 10.06(a) and Section 10.07 with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made), except any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed "outstanding at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding such Ex-Dividend Date" within the meaning of Section 10.06(a).
     (b) The reclassification of the Common Stock into securities including securities other than Common Stock (other than any reclassification upon an event to which Section 10.12 applies) shall be deemed to involve (a) a distribution of such securities other than the Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock (and the effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be the "Ex-Dividend Date" within the meaning of this Section 10.08), and (b) a subdivision or combination, as the case may be, of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such reclassification into the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately thereafter (and the effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be "the day upon which such subdivision becomes effective" or "the day upon which such combination becomes effective", as the case may be, and "the day upon which such subdivision or combination becomes effective" within the meaning of Section 10.06(b)).
     Section 10.22 . After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Article 10, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Article 10 shall cause an adjustment to the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
Successive Adjustments
     Section 10.23 . Each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes pursuant to this Article 10 shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of rights ("Rights"), if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such conversion shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of the Rights Agreement, dated as of August 12, 1998, between the Company and BankBoston, N.A., as Rights Agent, or any successor shareholder rights agreement adopted by the Company, as the same may be amended form time to time (in each case, a "Shareholders Rights Plan"). If the Shareholders Rights Plan under which any Rights are issued provides that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing such Rights will be entitled to receive such Rights, there shall not be any adjustment to the conversion privilege or Conversion Rate at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing such Rights. If, however, prior to any conversion the Rights have separated from the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company distributed to all Holders of the Common Stock, its assets, debt securities or rights as described in Section 10.08 above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such Rights.
Rights Issued in Respect of Common Stock Issued Upon Conversion
     Section 10.24 . The Company may, at its option, set-off withholding taxes due with respect to Notes against payments of Cash and Common Stock on the Notes to the extent required by law. In the case of any such set-off against Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Notes, such Common
Withholding Taxes for Adjustments in Conversion Rate
 
Stock shall be valued based on the arithmetic average of the Volume Weighted Average Price for each Trading Day in the relevant Conversion Reference Period.
     Section 11.01 . Interest on any Note that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any applicable Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the person in whose name that Note is registered at the Close of Business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose. Each installment of interest payable in Cash on any Note shall be paid in same-day funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located inside the United States, if the Trustee shall have received proper wire transfer instructions from such payee not later than the related Regular Record Date or, if no such instructions have been received by check drawn on a bank in the United States mailed to the payee at its address set forth on the Registrar's books. In the case of a Global Note, interest payable on any applicable payment date will be paid by wire transfer of same-day funds to the Depositary, with respect to that portion of such Global Note held for its account by Cede & Co. for the purpose of permitting such party to credit the interest received by it in respect of such Global Note to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
Interest Payments
     Section 11.02 . Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Note, any interest on any Note that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, within 30 days following any applicable payment date (herein called "Defaulted Interest", which term shall include any accrued and unpaid interest that has accrued on such defaulted amount in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Notes), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (a) or (b) below.
Defaulted Interest
     (a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the Close of Business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment (which shall not be less than 20 days after such notice is received by the Trustee), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment (the "Special Record Date"). The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and
 
the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Notes at his address as it appears on the list of Noteholders maintained pursuant to Section 2.05 not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the Close of Business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (b).
     (b) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Notes in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
     Section 11.03 . Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article 11 and Section 2.06, each Note delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Note shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Notes.
Interest Rights Preserved
     Section 12.01 . The Indenture shall incorporate and be governed by the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of and to govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
Trust Indenture Act of 1939
     Section 12.02 .
Noteholder Communications; Noteholder Actions
     (a) The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to the Indenture or the Notes are as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and the Company and the Trustee shall comply with the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Sections 312(a) and 312(b). Neither the Company nor the Trustee will be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
     (b) (i) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent to amendment, supplement or waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by a Holder (an "act") may be evidenced by an instrument signed by the Holder delivered to the Trustee. The fact and date of the execution of the instrument, or the authority of the person executing it, may be proved in any manner that the Trustee deems sufficient.
           (ii) The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders, which will be binding on all the Holders.
 
     (c) Any act by the Holder of any Note binds that Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Note that evidences the same debt as the Note of the acting Holder, even if no notation thereof appears on the Note. Subject to paragraph (d), a Holder may revoke an act as to its Notes, but only if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver or other consequence of the act becomes effective.
     (d) The Company may, but is not obligated to, fix a record date (which need not be within the time limits otherwise prescribed by Trust Indenture Act Section 316(c)) for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to act with respect to any amendment or waiver or in any other regard, except that during the continuance of an Event of Default, only the Trustee may set a record date as to notices of default, any declaration or acceleration or any other remedies or other consequences of the Event of Default. If a record date is fixed, those Persons that were Holders at such record date and only those Persons will be entitled to act, or to revoke any previous act, whether or not those Persons continue to be Holders after the record date. No act will be valid or effective for more than 90 days after the record date.
     Section 12.03 .
Notices
     (a) Any notice or communication to the Company will be deemed given if in writing (i) when delivered in person or (ii) five days after mailing when mailed by first class mail, or (iii) when sent by facsimile transmission, with transmission confirmed. Any notice to the Trustee will be effective only upon receipt. In each case the notice or communication should be addressed as follows:
if to the Company:
Symantec Corporation 20330 Stevens Creek Boulevard Cupertino, CA 95014 Attention: Treasurer Tel: (408) 517-7835 Fax: (408) 517-8442
with a copy to:
Symantec Corporation 20330 Stevens Creek Boulevard Cupertino, CA 95014 Attention: General Counsel Tel: (408) 517-8324 Fax: (408) 517-8121
if to the Trustee:
U.S. Bank National Association 633 West Fifth Street, 24 Floor Los Angeles, CA 90071
th
 
Attention: Corporate Trust Services (Symantec Corporation 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011) Tel: (213) 615-6043 Fax: (213) 615-6197
          The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
     (b) Except as otherwise expressly provided with respect to published notices, any notice or communication to a Holder will be deemed given when mailed to the Holder at its address as it appears on the Register by first class mail or, as to any Global Note registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as agreed by the Company, the Trustee and the Depository. Copies of any notice or communication to a Holder, if given by the Company, will be mailed to the Trustee at the same time. Any defect in mailing a notice or communication to any particular Holder will not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
     (c) Where the Indenture provides for notice, the notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and the waiver will be the equivalent of the notice. Waivers of notice by Holders must be filed with the Trustee, but such filing is not a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waivers.
     Section 12.04 . Noteholders may communicate pursuant to Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other Noteholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of Section 312(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
     Section 12.05 . Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under the Indenture, the Company will furnish to the Trustee:
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
     Section 12.06 . Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in the Indenture must include:
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
 
     Section 12.07 . A "Legal Holiday" is any day other than a Business Day. If any specified date (including a date for giving notice) is a Legal Holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and, if the action to be taken on such date is a payment in respect of the Notes, interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Legal Holiday
     Section 12.08 . The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Noteholders. The Registrar, Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar
     Section 12.09 . THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES.
Governing Law
     Section 12.10 . The Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture or loan or debt agreement of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, and no such indenture or loan or debt agreement may be used to interpret the Indenture.
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
     Section 12.11 . All agreements of the Company in the Indenture and the Notes will bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in the Indenture will bind its successor.
Successors
     Section 12.12 . The parties may sign any number of copies of the Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Duplicate Originals
     Section 12.13 . In case any provision in the Indenture or in the Notes is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability
     Section 12.14 . The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and headings of the Articles and Sections of the Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of the Indenture and in no way modify or restrict any of the terms and provisions of the Indenture.
Table of Contents and Headings
 
     Section 12.15 . No director, officer, employee, incorporator, member or stockholder of the Company, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees, Incorporators, Members and Stockholders
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
EXHIBIT A
[CUSIP] 871503AC2
[ISIN] US871503AC28
No.
          Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, promises to pay to , or its registered assigns, the principal sum of DOLLARS ($) on June 15, 2011, or such lesser amount as indicated on the Schedule of Exchanges of Notes on the other side of this Note to reflect exchanges, purchases and conversions.
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
          Initial Interest Rate: 0.75% per annum.
          Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2006.
          Regular Record Dates: June 1 and December 1.
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
 
     This is one of the 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes Due June 15, 2011 described in the Indenture referred to in this Note.
 
1. .
Principal and Interest
     The Company promises to pay the principal of this Note on June 15, 2011.
     The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note on each Interest Payment Date, as set forth on the face of this Note, at the rate of 0.75% per annum (subject to adjustment as provided below).
     Interest will be payable semiannually in arrears (to the holders of record of the Notes at the close of business on the June 1 or December 1 immediately preceding the interest payment date) on each interest payment date, commencing December 15, 2006.
     Interest on this Note will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid on this Note or the Note surrendered in exchange for this Note (or, if there is no existing default in the payment of interest and if this Note is authenticated between a regular record date and the next interest payment date, from such interest payment date) or, if no interest has been paid, from the Issue Date. Interest will be computed in the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
     The Company will pay interest on overdue principal, premium, if any, and, to the extent lawful, interest at a rate per annum that is 2% in excess of 0.75%. Interest not paid when due and any interest on principal, premium or interest not paid when due will be paid to the Persons that are Holders on a special record date, which will established as set forth in the Indenture referred to below.
     Additional interest will accrue on the Notes at an additional rate per year equal to 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Notes under the circumstances set forth in Section 6.02(c) of the Indenture (as defined below).
     Any payment required to be made on any day that is not a Business Day will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, without additional interest.
2. .
Registration Rights Agreement
     The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 16, 2006, between the Company and the Initial Purchasers named therein (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). In the event of a Registration Default, as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement, the Holder is entitled to additional interest for the period from and including the day following the occurrence of the Registration Default to, but excluding, the earlier of the day on which the Registration Default has been cured or June 16, 2008. Additional
 
interest will accrue at an additional rate per year equal to 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Notes.
3. .
Method of Payment
     Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall pay interest on this Note to the person who is the Holder of this Note at the close of business on the Regular Record Date next preceding the related Interest Payment Date. The Company will pay any Cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
4. .
Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar
     Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar. The Company may maintain deposit accounts and conduct other banking transactions with the Trustee in the normal course of business.
5.
Indenture.
     This is one of the Notes issued under an Indenture dated as of June 16, 2006 (as amended from time to time, the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee. Capitalized terms used herein are used as defined in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act for a statement of all such terms. To the extent permitted by applicable law, in the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Note and the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Indenture will control.
     The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company.
6.
Repurchase at the Option of the Holder upon a Change in Control.
     At the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to purchase the Notes held by such Holder on the date, at the purchase price and as otherwise provided in the Indenture.
     Holders have the right to withdraw any Change in Control Purchase Notice by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
     If Cash (and/or securities if permitted under the Indenture) sufficient to pay the Change in Control Purchase Price of, together with any accrued and unpaid interest with respect to, all Notes or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date is deposited with the Paying Agent on or prior to the third Business Day following the Change in
 
Control Purchase Date, interest shall cease to accrue on such Notes (or portions thereof) immediately after such Change in Control Purchase Date whether or not the Note is delivered to the Paying Agent, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such (other than the right to receive the Change in Control Purchase Price and accrued and unpaid interest upon surrender of such Notes).
7.
Conversion.
     A Holder of a Note may convert such Note into Cash and, to the extent the Conversion Value of such Note is greater than $1,000, Cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, at the option of the Company, as described in the Indenture before the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding Maturity Date, if at least one of the following conditions is satisfied:
     (a) during any calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2006, and only during such calendar quarter, if the Closing Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 Trading Days in the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of the preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the Conversion Price per share of Common Stock on the last day of such preceding calendar quarter (the "Conversion Trigger Price");
     (b) during the five Business Day period immediately after any five consecutive Trading Day period (the "Measurement Period") in which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for each day of such Measurement Period was less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price of the Common Stock on such date and the Conversion Rate on such date;
     (c) the Company elects to distribute to all holders of Common Stock (i) rights or warrants entitling all holders of the Common Stock to subscribe for or purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, Common Stock at less than the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution, or (ii) Cash, debt securities (or other evidence of Debt) or other assets (excluding dividends or distributions described in Section 10.06 of the Indenture), which distribution, together with all other distributions within the preceding twelve months, has a per share value exceeding 10% of the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution; or
     (d) if a Change of Control occurs or if the Company is a party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange or transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into Cash, securities or other assets; or
     (e) at any time on or after April 5, 2011 until the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date.
     The Conversion Agent will determine on the Company's behalf at the beginning of each calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2006 through the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2011 whether the Notes are convertible as a result of the price of the
 
Common Stock pursuant to clause (a) above and will notify the Company and the Trustee if the Notes are so convertible.
     The Trustee shall have no obligation to determine the Trading Price of the Notes pursuant to clause (b) above unless the Company has requested such determination; and the Company shall have no obligation to make such request unless a Holder provides the Company with reasonable evidence that the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes would be less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price and the Conversion Rate. At such time, the Company shall instruct the Trustee to determine the Trading Price beginning on the next Trading Day and on each successive Trading Day until the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes is greater than or equal to 98% of the product of the Closing Price and the Conversion Rate.
     If the Company makes a distribution described in subsection (c)(i) or (c)(ii), the Company must notify Holders at least 20 Trading Days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. Once the Company has given such notice, Holders may surrender their Notes for conversion at any time until the earlier of the Close of Business on the Business Day prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution or the Company's announcement that such distribution will not take place, even if the Notes are not convertible at that time.
     The Company will notify Noteholders and the Trustee as promptly as practicable following the date on which the Company publicly announces any transaction described in clause (d) above, but in no event less than 20 Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction. Noteholders may surrender their Notes for conversion at any time after the date that is 15 Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction until 35 Trading Days after the actual date of such transaction (or, if such transaction also constitutes a Change in Control, until the Change in Control Purchase date).
8.
Defaults and Remedies.
     If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Indenture. If a bankruptcy or insolvency default with respect to the Company occurs and is continuing, the Notes automatically become due and payable. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Notes. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of remedies.
9.
Amendment and Waiver.
     Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, the Indenture and the Notes may be amended, or default may be waived, with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes. Without notice to or the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or if such amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect.
 
10.
Registered Form; Denominations; Transfer; Exchange.
     The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Trustee may require a Holder to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. Pursuant to the Indenture, there are certain periods during which the Trustee will not be required to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Note or certain portions of a Note.
11.
Persons Deemed Owners.
     The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
12.
Unclaimed Money or Notes.
     The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property laws. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
13.
Trustee Dealings with the Company.
     Subject to certain limitations imposed by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
14.
No Recourse Against Others.
     A director, officer, incorporator, agent, subsidiary, employee, member or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Noteholder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
15.
Authentication.
     This Note shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
16.
Governing Law.
     THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE.
17.
Abbreviations.
     Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian) and U/G/M/A/ (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
     The Company will furnish a copy of the Indenture to any Holder upon written request and without charge.
 
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED the undersigned registered holder hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
Insert Taxpayer Identification No.
attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the Company with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
     To convert this Note, check the box:  
o
     To convert only part of this Note, state the principal amount to be converted (must be $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple of $1,000 principal amount): $[          ] .
     If you want the Cash paid to another person or the stock certificate, if any, made out in another person's name, fill in the form below:
and irrevocably appoint
agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
 
 
     The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for Notes in certificated form, have been made:
 
In connection with any transfer of this Note occurring prior to the Resale Restriction Termination Date, unless such Note has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or any similar provision then in force, the undersigned confirms that it is making, and it has not utilized any general solicitation or general advertising in connection with, the transfer:
Unless one of the items (1) through (3) is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered Holder thereof; provided, however, that if item (3) is checked, the Company and the Trustee reserve the right to require the delivery of such legal opinions, certifications or other evidence as may reasonably be required in order to determine that the proposed transfer is being made in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and applicable state securities laws.
If none of the foregoing items are checked, the Trustee or Registrar shall not be obligated to register this Note in the name of any person other than the Holder hereof unless and until the conditions to any such transfer of registration set forth herein and in the Indenture shall have been satisfied.

 
Exhibit 4.02
 
*    Note: This Cross Reference Table shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be part of the Indenture.
N.A. means not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
          INDENTURE, dated as of June 16, 2006, between Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation, as the "Company" and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, as Trustee.
          The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of the Indenture to provide for the initial issuance of $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.00 % Convertible Senior Notes Due 2013 (the "Initial Notes," and together with the "Additional Notes," the "Notes"). All things necessary to make the Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done, and the Company has done all things necessary to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and duly issued by the Company, the valid obligations of the Company as hereinafter provided.
          This Indenture is subject to, and will be governed by, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be a part of and govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
          For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Notes by the Holders thereof, the parties hereto covenant and agree, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders, as follows:
     Section 1.01 .
Definitions
          "2011 Notes" means the Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 of the Company issued under an Indenture, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and the Trustee.
          "Additional Interest" means additional interest owed to the Holders pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement and pursuant to Section 6.02(c) of this Indenture.
          "Additional Notes" means the up to $100,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under this Indenture as a result of the Initial Purchasers exercise of their over-allotment option, having the same terms as the Initial Notes.
          "Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with, such Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with") with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Securities, by contract or otherwise.
 
          "Agent" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent.
          "Agent Member" means a member of, or a participant in, the Depositary.
          "Applicable Conversion Rate" means the Conversion Rate on any Trading Day.
          "Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of beneficial ownership interests in a Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, in each case to the extent applicable to such transfer or exchange.
          "Bankruptcy Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.01.
          "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11 of the United States Code (or any successor thereto) or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
          "Board of Directors" means the board of directors or comparable governing body of the Company, or any committee thereof duly authorized to act on its behalf.
          "Board Resolution" means a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors which is certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and remains in full force and effect as of the date of its certification.
          "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or obligated to close.
          "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares of stock of a corporation, partnership interests or other equivalent interests (however designated, whether voting or non-voting) in such Person's equity, entitling the holder to receive a share of the profits and losses, and a distribution of assets, after liabilities, of such Person.
          "Cash" means such coin or currency of the United States as at any time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
          "Certificated Note" means a Note in registered individual form without interest coupons.
          "Close of Business" means 5:00 p.m. (New York City time).
          "Closing Price" of the Common Stock on any date means the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the NASDAQ National Market. If the Common Stock is not listed for trading on a United States national or regional securities exchange and not reported by the NASDAQ National Market on the relevant date, the "closing price" will be the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization. If the Common Stock is not so
 
quoted, the last reported sale price will be the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose.
          "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, $0.01 par value, as it exists on the date of this Indenture and any shares of any class or classes of Capital Stock of the Company resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company and which are not subject to redemption by the Company; provided, however, that if at any time there shall be more than one such resulting class, the shares of each such class then so issuable on conversion of Notes shall be substantially in the proportion which the total number of shares of such class resulting from all such reclassifications bears to the total number of shares of all such classes resulting from all such reclassifications.
          "Company" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of the Indenture or any successor obligor under the Indenture and the Notes pursuant to Section 5.01.
          "Conversion Date" means the date on which the Holder of the Note has complied with all requirements under this Indenture to convert such Note.
          "Conversion Price" per share of Common Stock as of any day means the result obtained by dividing $1,000 by the Conversion Rate on such day.
          "Conversion Rate" means 52.2951 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustment pursuant to Article 10.
          "Conversion Reference Period" means (a) for Notes that are converted during the period beginning on the 23 scheduled Trading Day prior to the Maturity Date, the twenty consecutive Trading Days beginning on, and including, the 20 scheduled Trading Day prior to the Maturity Date and (b) in all other instances, the twenty consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Conversion Date.
rd
th
          "Conversion Value" means, per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, the amount equal to the average of the products for each Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period of (a) the Applicable Conversion Rate for such day multiplied by (b) the average of the Volume Weighted Average Price per share of the Common Stock on such day.
          "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which the trust created by this Indenture is principally administered, which at the date of the Indenture is located at U.S. Bank National Association, 633 West Fifth Street, 24 Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90071, Attention: Corporate Trust Services (Symantec Corporation 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013).
th
          "Current Market Price" of Common Stock on any day means the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for each of the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the earlier of the day in question and the day before the Ex-Dividend Date with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation.
 
          "Daily Share Amounts" means, for each Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period and each $1,000 principal amount of Notes surrendered for conversion, a number of shares of Common Stock (but in no event less than zero) determined by the following formula:
          "Debt" means, with respect to any Person, without duplication,
     (1) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money (other than non-recourse obligations);
     (2) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments.
          "Default" means any event that is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
          "Depositary" means DTC or the nominee thereof, or any successor thereto.
          "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation, and its successors.
          "DTC Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit C.
          "Event of Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.01.
          "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
          "Ex-Dividend Date" means, with respect to any issuance or distribution, the first date on which the shares of Common Stock trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive such issuance or distribution.
          "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America as in effect from time to time.
          "Global Note" means a Note in registered global form without interest coupons.
          "Holder" or "Noteholder" means the registered holder of any Note.
          "Indenture" means this indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
          "Initial Notes" means the Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Notes issued in replacement thereof.
 
          "Initial Purchasers" means Citigroup Capital Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
          "interest", in respect of the Notes, unless the context otherwise requires, refers to interest and Additional Interest, if any.
          "Interest Payment Date" means each June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing December 15, 2006.
          "Issue Date" means the date on which the Initial Notes are originally issued under this Indenture.
          "Market Disruption Event" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half hour period in the aggregate on any scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Nasdaq National Market or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
          "Maturity Date" means June 15, 2013.
          "NASD" means the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
          "Notes" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Recitals.
          "Officer" means the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president or chief executive officer, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer, or the secretary or any assistant secretary, of the Company.
          "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed in the name of the Company (i) by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president or chief executive officer or a vice president and (ii) by the chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer or the secretary or any assistant secretary.
          "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion signed by legal counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, satisfactory to the Trustee.
          "Paying Agent" refers to a Person engaged to perform the obligations of the Trustee in respect of payments made or funds held hereunder in respect of the Notes.
          "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability company, an association, a trust or any other entity, including a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
          "principal" of any Debt (including the Notes) means the principal amount of such Debt (or if such Debt was issued with original issue discount, the face amount of such Debt less
 
the remaining unamortized portion of the original issue discount of such Debt), together with, unless the context otherwise indicates, any premium then payable on such Debt.
          "Register" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.03.
          "Registrar" means a Person engaged to maintain the Register.
          "Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of June 16, 2006, among the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC with respect to the Notes.
          "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date means the June 1 or December 1 (whether or not a Trading Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date.
          "Resale Restriction Termination Date" means, as to any Note, the later of June 16, 2008 and the date that is two years after the last date on which the Company or any Affiliate of the Company was the owner of such Note.
          "Restricted Global Note" means a Global Note that bears the Restricted Note Legend representing Notes issued and sold pursuant to Rule 144A.
          "Restricted Certificated Note" means a Certificated Note that bears the Restricted Note Legend.
          "Restricted Common Stock Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit B-2.
          "Restricted Note Legend" means the legend set forth in Exhibit B-1.
          "Rule 144" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act.
          "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
          "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
          "Significant Subsidiary" means, in respect of any Person, a Subsidiary of such Person that would constitute a "significant subsidiary" as such term is defined under Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
          "Stated Maturity" means (i) with respect to the Notes, June 15, 2013, or (ii) with respect to any scheduled payment of interest on the Notes, the date specified as the fixed date on which such interest payment is due and payable as set forth in this Indenture and the Notes, not including any contingent obligation to repay, redeem or repurchase prior to the regularly scheduled date for payment.
          "Subsidiary" means with respect to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Securities is owned,
 
directly or indirectly, by, or, in the case of a partnership, the sole general partner or the managing partner or the only general partners of which are, such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person (or a combination thereof). Unless otherwise specified, "Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary of the Company.
          "Trading Day" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed, is open for trading or, if the Common Stock is not so listed, admitted for trading or quoted, any Business Day. A Trading Day only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system.
          "Trading Price" with respect to the Notes, on any date of determination, means the average of the secondary market bid quotations obtained by the Trustee for $2.0 million principal amount of Notes at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from three independent nationally recognized securities dealers selected by the Company; provided that if three such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, but two such bids are obtained, then the average of the two bids shall be used, and if only one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, that one bid shall be used. If the Trustee cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $2.0 million principal amount of Notes from a nationally recognized securities dealer, then the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes will be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price (as provided to the Trustee by the Company) and the Conversion Rate. Any such determination by the Trustee will be conclusive absent manifest error.
          "Trustee" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of the Indenture or any successor trustee under the Indenture pursuant to Article 7.
          "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
          "Volume Weighted Average Price" on any Trading Day means the price per share of the Common Stock as displayed on Bloomberg (or any successor service) page SYMC <equity> VAP in respect of the period from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (New York City time), on such Trading Day; or, if such price is not available, the market value per share of the Common Stock on such day as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company.
          "Voting Securities" means, with respect to any Person, securities of any class or kind ordinarily having the power to vote for the election of directors, managers or other voting members of the governing body of such Person.
 
     Section 1.02 .
Other Definitions
     Section 1.03 . Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the Trust Indenture Act, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
          "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
          "indenture securities" means the Notes.
          "indenture security holder" means a Noteholder.
 
          "indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture.
          "indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee.
          "obligor" on the indenture securities means the Company.
          All other Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the Trust Indenture Act, defined by Trust Indenture Act reference to another statute or defined by Securities Exchange Commission rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
     Section 1.04 . Unless the context otherwise requires or except as otherwise expressly provided,
Rules of Construction
     (a) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
     (b) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
     (c) "herein," "hereof" and other words of similar import refer to the Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Section, Article or other subdivision;
     (d) all references to Sections or Articles or Exhibits refer to Sections or Articles or Exhibits of or to the Indenture unless otherwise indicated;
     (e) references to agreements or instruments, or to statutes or regulations, are to such agreements or instruments, or statutes or regulations, as amended from time to time (or to successor statutes and regulations);
     (f) in the event that a transaction meets the criteria of more than one category of permitted transactions or listed exceptions the Company may classify such transaction as it, in its sole discretion, determines;
     (g) "or" is not exclusive;
     (h) "including" means including, without limitation; and
     (i) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular.
     Section 1.05 . Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments (which may take the form of an electronic writing or messaging or otherwise be in accordance with customary procedures of the Depositary or the Trustee) of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing (which may be in electronic form); and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced
Acts of Holders
 
thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent (either of which may be in electronic form) shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
     Section 2.01 .
Form, Dating and Denominations; Legends
     (a) The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A. The terms and provisions contained in the form of the Note annexed as Exhibit A constitute and are hereby expressly made a part of the Indenture. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, rules of or agreements with national securities exchanges to which the Company is subject, or usage. Each Note will be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes will be issuable only in denominations of $1,000 in principal amount and any integral multiple thereof.
     (b) . All of the Notes are initially being offered and sold to qualified institutional buyers as defined in Rule 144A (collectively, "QIBs" or individually, each a "QIB") in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Restricted Global Notes, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the Depositary, and registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co., duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. The aggregate principal amount of the Restricted Global Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee as hereinafter provided, subject in each case to compliance with the Applicable Procedures.
Restricted Global Notes
     (c) . Each Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, purchases or conversions of such Notes. Any adjustment of the aggregate principal amount of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.06 and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary.
Global Notes in General
          Agent Members shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by the Depositary or under the Global Note, and the Depositary (including, for this purpose, its nominee) may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any
 
agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and Holder of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall (A) prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or (B) impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Note.
     (d) . The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.01(d), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Notes that (i) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary, (ii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (iii) shall bear a legend substantially to the effect set forth in Exhibit C. This Section 2.01(d) shall only apply to Global Securities deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary.
Book Entry Provisions
     Section 2.02 . An Officer shall sign the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature attested by the manual or facsimile signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company. Typographic and other minor errors or defects in any such facsimile signature shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any Note which has been authenticated and delivered by the Trustee.
Execution and Authentication
          If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Note shall be valid nevertheless.
          A Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Note. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
          The Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery Notes for original issue in the aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000 (or up to $1,100,000,000 to the extent the Initial Purchasers exercise their over-allotment option) upon receipt of a written order or orders of the Company signed by an Officer of the Company (a "Company Order"). The Company Order shall specify the amount of Notes to be authenticated, shall provide that all such Notes will be represented by a Global Note and the date on which each original issue of Notes is to be authenticated. The initial aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding at any time may not exceed $1,000,000,000 (or $1,100,000,000 to the extent the Initial Purchasers exercise their over-allotment option) except as provided in Section 2.07 and except as provided in the next succeeding paragraph.
          The Company may, without the consent of any holders of Notes, reopen the Notes and issue additional Notes hereunder with the same terms and with the same CUSIP number as the Notes initially issued hereunder in an unlimited aggregate principal amount, which will form the same series with the Notes initially issued hereunder so long as such additional Notes are fungible with the Notes initially issued hereunder for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
          The Trustee shall act as the initial authenticating agent. Thereafter, the Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An
 
authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent shall have the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
          The Notes shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and any integral multiple thereof.
     Section 2.03 . The Company shall maintain one or more offices or agencies where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (each, a "Registrar"), one or more offices or agencies where Notes may be presented for payment (each, a "Paying Agent"), one or more offices or agencies where Notes may be presented for conversion (each, a "Conversion Agent") and one or more offices or agencies where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Company will at all times maintain a Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar and an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served in the United States. One of the Registrars (the "Primary Registrar") shall keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange (the "Register").
Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent
          The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Agent not a party to this Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or agent for service of notices and demands in any place required by this Indenture, or fails to give the foregoing notice, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any Affiliate of the Company may act as Paying Agent (except for the purposes of Article 8).
          The Company hereby initially designates the Trustee as Paying Agent, Registrar, and Conversion Agent, and the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as such office or agency of the Company for each of the aforesaid purposes.
     Section 2.04 . Prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on each date on which the principal amount of or interest, if any, on any Notes is due and payable, the Company shall deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal amount or interest, if any, so becoming due. A Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Noteholders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal amount of or interest, if any, on the Notes, and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company (or any other obligor on the Notes) in making any such payment. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall, before 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on each date on which a payment of the principal amount of or interest on any Notes is due and payable, segregate the money and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee, and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any default, upon written request to a Paying Agent, require such Paying Agent to pay forthwith to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent (other than the Company) shall have no further liability for the money.
Paying Agent To Hold Money In Trust
 
     Section 2.05 . The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Noteholders. If the Trustee is not the Primary Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee on or before each semiannual interest payment date, and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Noteholders.
Noteholder Lists
     Section 2.06 . Subject to compliance with any applicable additional requirements contained in Section 2.14, when a Note is presented to a Registrar with a request to register a transfer thereof or to exchange such Note for an equal principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transactions are met; provided, however, that every Note presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by an assignment form in the form included in Exhibit A, and in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing. To permit registration of transfers and exchanges, upon surrender of any Note for registration of transfer or exchange at an office or agency maintained pursuant to Section 2.03, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Notes of a like aggregate principal amount at the Registrar's request. Any exchange or transfer shall be without charge, except that the Company or the Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto, and provided, that this sentence shall not apply to any exchange pursuant to Section 2.10, Section 3.04, Section 9.03(b) or Section 10.02(g) not involving any transfer.
Transfer and Exchange
          All Notes issued upon any transfer or exchange of Notes shall be valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
          Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.03 shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Notes upon transfer or exchange of Notes.
          Each Holder of a Note agrees to indemnify the Company and the Trustee against any liability that may result from the transfer, exchange or assignment of such Holder's Note in violation of any provision of this Indenture and/or applicable United States federal or state securities law.
          The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Note (including any transfers between or among Agent Members or other beneficial owners of interests in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
 
     Section 2.07 . If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Company, a Registrar or the Trustee, or the Company, a Registrar and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, and there is delivered to the Company, the applicable Registrar and the Trustee such security or indemnity as will be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company, such Registrar or the Trustee that such Note has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute, and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Note or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Note, a new Note of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Replacement Notes
          In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Note, pay or purchase such Note, as the case may be.
          Upon the issuance of any new Notes under this Section 2.07, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other reasonable expenses (including the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee or the Registrar) in connection therewith.
          Every new Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.07 in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
          The provisions of this Section 2.07 are (to the extent lawful) exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes.
     Section 2.08 . Notes outstanding at any time are all Notes authenticated by the Trustee, except for those canceled by it, those converted pursuant to Article 10, those delivered to it for cancellation or surrendered for transfer or exchange and those described in this Section 2.08 as not outstanding.
Outstanding Notes
          If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Company receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a protected purchaser.
          If a Paying Agent holds at 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Maturity Date Cash sufficient to pay the principal amount of the Notes payable on that date, then on and after the Maturity Date, such Notes shall cease to be outstanding and the principal amount thereof shall cease to bear interest.
          Subject to the restrictions contained in Section 2.09, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Note.
 
     Section 2.09 . (a) In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any notice, direction, waiver or consent, Notes owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Notes or by any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded, except that, for purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such notice, direction, waiver or consent, only Notes which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Notes so owned which have been pledged in good faith shall not be disregarded if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to the Notes and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor on the Notes or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor. Any Notes or shares of Common Stock issued upon the conversion of Notes that are purchased or owned by the Company or any Affiliate thereof may not be resold by the Company or such Affiliate unless registered under the Securities Act or resold pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in a transaction that results in such Notes or shares of Common Stock, as the case may be, no longer being "restricted securities" (as defined under Rule 144).
Treasury Notes
     Section 2.10 . Until definitive Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and execute, and, upon receipt of a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Notes. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of definitive Notes but may have variations that the Company with the consent of the Trustee considers appropriate for temporary Notes. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
Temporary Notes
     Section 2.11 . The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar, the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent shall forward to the Trustee or its agent any Notes surrendered to them for transfer, exchange, payment or conversion. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel, in accordance with its standard procedures, all Notes surrendered for transfer, exchange, payment, conversion or cancellation and upon written request of the Company shall deliver the canceled Notes to the Company.
Cancellation
     Section 2.12 . The Company in issuing the Notes may use one or more "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of purchase as a convenience to Holders; provided, that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a purchase and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such purchase shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
CUSIP Numbers
     Section 2.13 .
Book-entry Provisions For Global Notes
     (a) Transfers of Global Notes shall be limited to transfers in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. In addition, Certificated Notes shall be transferred to all beneficial owners, as identified by the Depositary, in exchange for their beneficial interests in Global Notes only if (i) the Depositary notifies the Company that the Depositary is unwilling or unable to continue as
 
depositary for any Global Note (or the Depositary ceases to be a "clearing agency" registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act) and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within ninety (90) days of such notice or cessation or (ii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Registrar has received a written request from the Depositary to issue Certificated Notes.
     (b) In connection with the transfer of a Global Note in its entirety to beneficial owners pursuant to Section 2.13(a), such Global Note shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall upon written instructions from the Company authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in such Global Note, an equal aggregate principal amount of Certificated Notes of authorized denominations.
     (c) Any Certificated Note constituting a Restricted Certificated Note delivered in exchange for an interest in a Global Note pursuant to Section 2.13(a) shall, except as otherwise provided by Section 2.14, bear the Restricted Note Legend.
     (d) The Holder of any Global Note may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes.
     Section 2.14 .
Special Transfer Provisions
     (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, but except as provided in Section 2.14(b), a Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
     (b) Every Note that bears or is required under this Section 2.14(b) to bear the Restricted Note Legend, and any Common Stock that bears or is required under this Section 2.14(b) to bear the Restricted Common Stock Legend (collectively, the "Restricted Securities") shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth in the Restricted Note Legend or the Restricted Common Stock Legend, as the case may be, unless such restrictions on transfer shall be waived by written consent of the Company, and the holder of each such Restricted Security, by such Notes holder's acceptance thereof, agrees to be bound by all such restrictions on transfer. As used in this Section 2.14(b), the term "transfer" encompasses any sale, pledge, loan, transfer or other disposition whatsoever of any Restricted Security or any interest therein.
          Until the Resale Restriction Termination Date, any certificate evidencing such Note (and all securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof), and any stock certificate representing shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of any Note, shall bear a Restricted Note Legend or a Restricted Common Stock Legend, as the case may be, unless such Note or such shares of Common Stock have been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at
 
the time of such transfer) or pursuant to Rule 144 or any similar provision then in force, or such shares of Common Stock have been issued upon conversion of Notes that have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or unless otherwise agreed by the Company in writing, with written notice thereof to the Trustee.
          Any Note (or security issued in exchange or substitution therefor) as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to conditions for removal of the Restricted Note Legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of such Note for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06, be exchanged for a new Note or Notes, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the Restricted Note Legend. If the Restricted Note surrendered for exchange is represented by a Global Note bearing the Restricted Note Legend, the principal amount of the legended Global Note shall be reduced by the appropriate principal amount and the principal amount of a Global Note without the Restricted Note Legend shall be increased by an equal principal amount. If a Global Note without the Restricted Note Legend is not then outstanding, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver an unlegended Global Note to the Depositary.
          Any such shares of Common Stock as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the Restricted Common Stock Legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such shares of Common Stock for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of Common Stock, which shall not bear the Restricted Common Stock Legend required by this Section 2.14.
     (c) By its acceptance of any Note bearing the Restricted Note Legend, each Holder of such a Note acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such Note set forth in this Indenture and in the Restricted Note Legend and agrees that it will transfer such Note only as provided in this Indenture and as permitted by applicable law.
     (d) The Registrar shall retain copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to Section 2.13 or this Section 2.14. The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time during normal hours of operation of the Registrar upon the giving of reasonable notice to the Registrar.
     Section 3.01 .
Repurchase At the Option of the Holder
     (a) If there shall have occurred a Change in Control, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase for Cash all or any portion of such Holder's Notes in integral multiples of $1,000 principal amount on a date
 
selected by the Company (the "Change in Control Purchase Date"), which Change in Control Purchase Date shall be no later than thirty-five (35) Trading Days after the occurrence of such Change in Control, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Change in Control Purchase Date (the "Change in Control Purchase Price"), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 3.01(c); provided that if the Change in Control Purchase Date is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date to which it relates, interest accrued to the Interest Payment Date will be paid to Holders of the Notes as of the preceding Regular Record Date.
          A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as either of the following events shall occur:
               (i) any person or group, other than the Company, its Subsidiaries or any employee benefits plan of the Company or its Subsidiaries, files a Schedule 13D or Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) pursuant to the Exchange Act, disclosing that such person has become the beneficial owner of shares with a majority of the total voting power of the Company's outstanding Voting Securities; unless such beneficial ownership arises solely as a result of a revocable proxy delivered in response to a proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act; or
               (ii) the Company consolidates with or merges with or into another person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company), or sells, conveys, transfers or leases all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company) or any person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company) consolidates with or merges with or into the Company, and the outstanding Voting Securities of the Company are reclassified into, converted for or converted into the right to receive any other property or security, provided that none of these circumstances will be a Change in Control if persons that beneficially own the Voting Securities of the Company immediately prior to the transaction own, directly or indirectly, shares with a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding Voting Securities of the surviving or transferee person immediately after the transaction in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Company's Voting Securities immediately prior to the transaction.
          For purposes of defining a Change in Control:
 
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, it will not constitute a Change in Control if at least 90% of the consideration for the Common Stock (excluding Cash payments for fractional shares and Cash payments made in respect of dissenter's appraisal rights and Cash payment of the Required Cash Amount, if any) in the transaction or transactions constituting the Change in Control consists of common stock traded on a United States national securities exchange or quoted on The Nasdaq National Market, or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with the Change in Control, and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Notes become convertible solely into such common stock.
     (b) As promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces the Change in Control transaction, but in no event less than 20 Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of a Change in Control, the Company shall mail a written notice of Change in Control by first-class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder at their addresses shown in the register of the Registrar (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). The notice shall include a form of Change in Control Purchase Notice to be completed by the Noteholder and shall state:
     (i) briefly, the events causing a Change in Control;
     (ii) the anticipated effective date of such Change in Control;
     (iii) the date by which the Change in Control Purchase Notice pursuant to this Section 3.01 must be given;
     (iv) the Change in Control Purchase Price;
     (v) the Change in Control Purchase Date;
     (vi) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
     (vii) the then-current Conversion Rate and any adjustments thereto;
     (viii) that Notes with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder may be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof only if the Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
     (ix) briefly, the procedures a Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 3.01;
 
     (x) that Notes must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price;
     (xi) that the Change in Control Purchase Price for any Note as to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been duly given and not withdrawn, together with any accrued interest payable with respect thereto, will be paid on or prior to the third Trading Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of surrender of such Note;
     (xii) briefly, the conversion rights of the Notes;
     (xiii) the procedures for withdrawing a Change in Control Purchase Notice;
     (xiv) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest due, if any, interest on Notes surrendered for purchase will cease to accrue on and after the Change in Control Purchase Date; and
     (xv) the CUSIP number of the Notes.
     (c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 3.01(a) by delivery of a written notice of purchase (a "Change in Control Purchase Notice") to the Paying Agent at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date, stating:
     (i) the certificate number of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, if Certificated Notes have been issued, or notice compliant with the relevant DTC procedures if the Notes are not certificated;
     (ii) the portion of the principal amount of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof; and
     (iii) that such Note shall be purchased pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in this Article 3.
          The delivery of such Note to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Change in Control Purchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Change in Control Purchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Change in Control Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.01 only if the Note so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Change in Control Purchase Notice.
          The Company shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.01, a portion of a Note if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Note also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Note.
 
          Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.01 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder (together with accrued and unpaid interest) on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of delivery of the Note to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 3.01.
          Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Change in Control Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.01(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.02.
          The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Change in Control Purchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof.
          There shall be no purchase of any Notes pursuant to this Section 3.01 if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the Holders of such Notes, of the required Change in Control Purchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Notes (x) with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Indenture, or (y) held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price) in which case, upon such return, the Change in Control Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
     Section 3.02 .
Effect of Change in Control Purchase Notice
     (a) Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Change in Control Purchase Notice specified in Section 3.01(c), the Holder of the Note in respect of which such Change in Control Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Change in Control Purchase Price and any accrued and unpaid interest, with respect to such Note. Such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of (x) the Change in Control Purchase Date, with respect to such Note (provided the conditions in Section 3.01(c) have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Note to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.01(c). Notes in respect of which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Change in Control Purchase Notice unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs.
     (b) A Change in Control Purchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date specifying:
 
     (i) the certificate number of the Note which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, if Certificated Notes have been issued, or notice compliant with the relevant DTC procedures, if the Notes are not certificated,
     (ii) the principal amount of the Note with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, and
     (iii) the principal amount, if any, of such Note which remains subject to the original Change in Control Purchase Notice and which has been or will be delivered for purchase by the Company.
          A written notice of withdrawal of a Change in Control Purchase Notice may be in the form set forth in the preceding paragraph.
     Section 3.03 . Prior to 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on or prior to the third Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Trading Day) sufficient to pay the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price of all the Notes or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date.
Deposit of Change in Control Purchase Price
     If the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds money sufficient to pay the Change in Control Purchase Price of a Note on the third Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date in accordance with the terms hereof, then, immediately after the Change in Control Purchase Date, interest on such Note will cease to accrue, whether or not the Note is delivered to the Trustee or the Paying Agent, and all other rights of the holder shall terminate, other than the right to receive the Change in Control Purchase Price upon delivery of the Note.
     Section 3.04 . Any Note which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Note, without service charge, a new Note or Note, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Note so surrendered that is not purchased.
Notes Purchased In Part
     Section 3.05 . When complying with the provisions of Section 3.01 (provided, that such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), and subject to any exemptions available under applicable law, the Company shall:
Covenant To Comply With Securities Laws Upon Repurchase of Notes
 
     (a) comply with Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act, as applicable;
     (b) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) if required under the Exchange Act, as applicable;
     (c) otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under Section 3.01 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified therein.
          To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of Section 3.01, the Company's compliance with such laws and regulations shall not in and of itself cause a breach of its obligations under Section 3.01.
     Section 4.01 .
Payment of Notes
     (a) The Company agrees to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes and the Indenture. Not later than 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the due date of any principal of or interest on any Notes, or any purchase price of the Notes, the Company will deposit with the Trustee (or Paying Agent) money in immediately available funds sufficient to pay such amounts, provided that if the Company or any Affiliate of the Company is acting as Paying Agent, it will, on or before each due date, segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders a sum of money sufficient to pay such amounts until paid to such Holders or otherwise disposed of as provided in the Indenture. In each case the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its compliance with this paragraph.
     (b) An installment of principal or interest will be considered paid on the date due if the Trustee (or Paying Agent, other than the Company or any Affiliate of the Company) holds on that date money designated for and sufficient to pay the installment. If the Company or any Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, an installment of principal or interest will be considered paid on the due date only if paid to the Holders.
     (c) The Company agrees to pay interest on overdue principal, and, to the extent lawful, overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum specified in the Notes plus 2%.
     (d) Payments in respect of the Notes represented by the Global Notes are to be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders of the Global Notes. With respect to Certificated Notes, the Company will make all payments by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holders thereof or, if no such account is specified, by mailing a check to each Holder's registered address.
 
     Section 4.02 . The Company will maintain in the United States, an office or agency where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange or for presentation for payment and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and the Indenture may be served. The Company hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as such office of the Company. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company fails to maintain any such required office or agency or fails to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served to the Trustee.
Maintenance of Office or Agency
          The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be surrendered or presented for any of such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
     Section 4.03 . The Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence and the existence, rights and franchises of the Company, provided that the Company is not required to preserve any such right or franchise if the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company; and provided further that this Section does not prohibit any transaction otherwise permitted by Section 5.01.
Existence
     Section 4.04 .
Rule 144A Information and Annual Reports
     (a) At any time the Company is not subject to Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Company shall, so long as any of the Notes or any shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall, at such time, constitute "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, promptly provide to the Trustee and shall, upon written request, provide to any Noteholder, beneficial owner or prospective purchaser of Notes or any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of any Notes, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act to facilitate the resale of such Notes or shares of Common Stock pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
     (b) The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, such annual reports, information, documents and other reports that are filed with the Commission, copies of the Company's annual reports (which shall contain audited financial statements of the Company) and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe) that the Company files with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act when and if (and only if) the Company makes such filings with the Commission; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission shall be deemed delivered to the Trustee at the same time the same is filed with the Commission. The Company shall be deemed to have complied with the previous sentence to the extent that the Company shall have filed or furnished such information, documents or reports to the SEC via EDGAR (or any successor electronic
 
delivery procedure). In the event the Company is at any time no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Company shall continue to provide the Trustee and, upon written request, to each Noteholder, annual and quarterly reports containing substantially the same information as would have been required to be filed with the SEC had the Company continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. In such event, such annual and quarterly reports shall be provided at substantially similar times as the Company would have been required to provide reports had it continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements.
     Section 4.05 .
Reports to Trustee
     (a) The Company will deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year a certificate from the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company stating that the officer has conducted or supervised a review of the activities of the Company and its Subsidiaries and their performance under the Indenture and that, based upon such review, the Company has fulfilled its obligations hereunder or, if there has been a Default, specifying the Default and its nature and status.
     (b) The Company will deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within 30 days after the Company becomes aware or should reasonably become aware of the occurrence of a Default, an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of the Default, and the action which the Company proposes to take with respect thereto.
     Section 4.06 . The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (in each case, to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law to the extent it would hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Stay, Extension and Usury Laws
     Section 4.07 . If Additional Interest is payable by the Company pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement or pursuant to Section 6.02(c) of this Indenture, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a certificate to that effect stating (i) the amount of such Additional Interest that is payable, (ii) the reason why such Additional Interest is payable and (iii) the date on which such Additional Interest is payable. Unless and until a Trust Officer of the Trustee receives such a certificate, the Trustee may assume without inquiry that no such Additional Interest is payable. If the Company has paid Additional Interest directly to the Persons entitled to it, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a certificate setting forth the particulars of such payment.
Payment of Additional Interest
     Section 5.01 .
Consolidation, Merger, Sale or Lease of Assets by the Company
 
     (a) The Company, without the consent of the Holders of any of the outstanding Notes, may
     (i) consolidate with or merge with or into any Person, or
     (ii) sell, convey, transfer, or otherwise dispose of or lease all or substantially all of its assets as an entirety or substantially an entirety, in one transaction or a series of related transactions, to any Person; provided that
     (b) Upon the consummation of any transaction effected in accordance with these provisions, if the Company is not the continuing Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person will succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under the Indenture and the Notes with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company in the Indenture. Upon such substitution, except in the case of a lease, unless the successor is one or more of the Company's Subsidiaries, the Company will be released from its obligations under the Indenture and the Notes.
     Section 6.01 . An "Event of Default" occurs with respect to the Notes if:
Events of Default
     (a) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of any Note, or any Change in Control Purchase Price when the same becomes due and payable on the Maturity Date, on the Change in Control Purchase Date, upon acceleration, or otherwise;
 
     (b) the Company fails to provide the notice required by Section 3.01(b) on a timely basis;
     (c) the Company defaults in the payment of interest (including any Additional Interest) on any Note when the same becomes due and payable, and the default continues for a period of 30 days;
     (d) the Company fails to comply with any other covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture or the Notes and the default or breach continues for a period of 60 consecutive days after written notice to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding;
     (e) the Company fails to make any payment by the end of any applicable grace period after maturity of any Debt in an amount in excess of $100,000,000 and continuance of such failure, or (ii) there is an acceleration of Debt in an amount in excess of $100,000,000 because of a default with respect to such Debt without such Debt having been discharged or such acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled within a period of 30 days after written notice to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding; provided, however, if any such failure or acceleration referred to in (i) or (ii) above shall cease or be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof shall be deemed not to have occurred;
     (f) the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, pursuant to or under or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law, (i) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding or the commencement of any case against it; (iii) consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official of it or for any substantial part of its property; (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; (v) files a petition in bankruptcy or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief; or (vi) consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official; or
     (g) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that (i) is for relief against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding, or adjudicates the Company or any Significant Subsidiary insolvent or bankrupt; (ii) appoints any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its property; or (iii) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days (an event of default specified in clause (f) or (g) a "Bankruptcy Default").
 
     Section 6.02 .
Acceleration
     (a) Subject to Section 6.02(c), if an Event of Default, other than a Bankruptcy Default with respect to the Company, occurs and is continuing under the Indenture, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes, by written notice to the Company (and to the Trustee if the notice is given by the Holders), may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare the principal of and accrued interest on the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Upon a declaration of acceleration, such principal and interest will become immediately due and payable. If a Bankruptcy Default occurs with respect to the Company, the principal of and accrued interest on the Notes then outstanding will become immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
     (b) The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes by written notice to the Company and to the Trustee may waive all past defaults and rescind and annul a declaration of acceleration with respect to such Notes and its consequences if
     (i) all existing Events of Default, other than the nonpayment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes that have become due solely by the declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived, and
     (ii) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction.
     (c) Notwithstanding Section 6.02(a) or any other provision of this Indenture to the contrary, the sole remedy for any violation of any obligations the Company may be deemed to have pursuant to Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be the accrual of Additional Interest on the Notes at a rate of 0.25% per annum, payable semiannually on each Interest Payment Date based on the number of days of the relevant interest period on which the Company is deemed to be in violation of such section. In no event shall Additional Interest accrue on the Notes at a per annum rate in excess of 0.25% per annum pursuant to both this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement, taken together, regardless of the number of events or circumstances giving rise to the requirement to pay such Additional Interest.
     Section 6.03 . If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue, in its own name or as trustee of an express trust, any available remedy by proceeding at law or in equity to collect the payment of principal of and interest on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or the Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding.
Other Remedies
     Section 6.04 . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 6.02, 6.07 and 9.02(b), the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may, by notice to the Trustee, waive an existing Default and its consequences. Upon such waiver, the Default will cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom will be
Waiver of Past Defaults
 
deemed to have been cured, but no such waiver will extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     Section 6.05 . The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or the Indenture, that may involve the Trustee in personal liability, or that the Trustee determines in good faith may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of Holders of Notes not joining in the giving of such direction, and may take any other action it deems proper that is not inconsistent with any such direction received from Holders of Notes.
Control by Majority
     Section 6.06 . A Holder may not institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to the Indenture or the Notes, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy under the Indenture or the Notes, unless:
Limitation on Suits
     (i) the Holder has previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default;
     (ii) Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of the Event of Default in its own name as Trustee under the Indenture;
     (iii) Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against any costs, liabilities or expenses to be incurred in compliance with such request;
     (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
     (v) during such 60-day period, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes have not given the Trustee a direction that is inconsistent with such written request.
     Section 6.07 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the right of a Holder of a Note to receive payment of principal of or interest on its Note on or after the Stated Maturities thereof, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, may not be impaired or affected without the consent of that Holder.
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
     Section 6.08 . If an Event of Default in payment of principal or interest specified in clause (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust for the whole amount of principal and accrued interest remaining unpaid, together with interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, overdue installments of interest, in each case at the rate specified in the Notes, and such further amount as is sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of
Collection Suit by Trustee
 
collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and any other amounts due the Trustee hereunder.
     Section 6.09 . The Trustee may file proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee hereunder) and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relating to the Company or its creditors or property, and is entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money, securities or other property payable or deliverable upon conversion or exchange of the Notes or upon any such claims. Any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, if the Trustee consents to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agent and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee hereunder. Nothing in the Indenture will be deemed to empower the Trustee to authorize or consent to, or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder, any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
     Section 6.10 . If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
Priorities
          First: to the Trustee for all amounts due hereunder;
       Second: to Holders for amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and interest on the Notes, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal and interest; and
          Third: to the Company or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
          The Trustee, upon written notice to the Company, may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section. At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Noteholder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
     Section 6.11 . If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted a proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under the Indenture and the proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to the Holder, then, subject to any determination in the proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders will be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders will continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
     Section 6.12 . In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under the Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit (other than the Trustee) to file an
Undertaking for Costs
 
undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys fees, against any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section does not apply to a suit by a Holder to enforce payment of principal of or interest on any Note on the respective due dates, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes.
     Section 6.13 . No right or remedy conferred or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders under this Indenture is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and all such rights and remedies are, to the extent permitted by law, cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or exercise of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, will not prevent the concurrent assertion or exercise of any other right or remedy.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
     Section 6.14 . No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default will impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
     Section 7.01 .
General
     (a) The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee are as provided by the Trust Indenture Act and as set forth herein. Whether or not expressly so provided, every provision of the Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee is subject to this Article.
     (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in the Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations will be read into the Indenture against the Trustee. In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise those rights and powers vested in it by the Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
     (c) No provision of the Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct.
 
     Section 7.02 . Subject to Trust Indenture Act Sections 315(a) through (d):
Certain Rights of Trustee
     (a) In the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may rely, and will be protected in acting or refraining from acting, upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document, but, in the case of any document which is specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to any provision hereof, the Trustee shall examine the document to determine whether it conforms to the requirements of the Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). The Trustee, in its discretion, may make further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it sees fit.
     (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel conforming to Section 12.06 and the Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the certificate or opinion.
     (c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and will not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
     (d) The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders, unless such Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
     (e) The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers or for any action it takes or omits to take in accordance with the direction of the Holders in accordance with Section 6.05 relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under the Indenture.
     (f) The Trustee may consult with counsel, and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel will be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
     (g) No provision of the Indenture will require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of its rights or powers, unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
     Section 7.03 . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the
Individual Rights of Trustee
 
Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee is subject to Trust Indenture Act Sections 310(b) and 311. For purposes of Trust Indenture Act Section 311(b)(4) and (6):
     (a) "cash transaction" means any transaction in which full payment for goods or securities sold is made within seven days after delivery of the goods or securities in currency or in checks or other orders drawn upon banks or bankers and payable upon demand; and
     (b) "self-liquidating paper" means any draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or obligation which is made, drawn, negotiated or incurred for the purpose of financing the purchase, processing, manufacturing, shipment, storage or sale of goods, wares or merchandise and which is secured by documents evidencing title to, possession of, or a lien upon, the goods, wares or merchandise or the receivables or proceeds arising from the sale of the goods, wares or merchandise previously constituting the security, provided the security is received by the Trustee simultaneously with the creation of the creditor relationship arising from the making, drawing, negotiating or incurring of the draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or obligation.
     Section 7.04 . The Trustee (i) makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of the Indenture or the Notes, (ii) is not accountable for the Company's use or application of the proceeds from the Notes and (iii) is not responsible for any statement in the Notes other than its certificate of authentication.
Trustee's Disclaimer
     Section 7.05 . If any Default occurs and is continuing and is known to the Trustee, the Trustee will send notice of the Default to each Holder within 90 days after it occurs, unless the Default has been cured; provided that, except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Note, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors of the Trustee in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Holders. Notice to Holders under this Section will be given in the manner and to the extent provided in Trust Indenture Act Section 313(c).
Notice of Default
     Section 7.06 . Within 60 days after each May 15, beginning with May 15, 2007, the Trustee will mail to each Holder, as provided in Trust Indenture Act Section 313(c), a brief report dated as of such May 15, if required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a), and file such reports with each stock exchange upon which its Notes are listed and with the Commission as required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(d).
Reports by Trustee to Holders
     Section 7.07 .
Compensation and Indemnity
     (a) The Company will pay the Trustee compensation as agreed upon in writing for its services. The compensation of the Trustee is not limited by any law on compensation of a Trustee of an express trust. The Company will reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee, including the reasonable compensation and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
 
     (b) The Company will indemnify the Trustee for, and hold it harmless against, any loss or liability or expense incurred by it without negligence or bad faith on its part arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the Indenture and its duties under the Indenture and the Notes, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability and of complying with any process served upon it or any of its officers in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties under the Indenture and the Notes.
     (c) To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section, the Trustee will have a lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, in its capacity as Trustee, except money or property held in trust to pay principal of, and interest on particular Notes.
     Section 7.08
Replacement of Trustee.
     (a) (i) The Trustee may resign at any time by written notice to the Company.
   (ii) The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by written notice to the Trustee.
  (iii) If the Trustee is no longer eligible under Section 7.10 or in the circumstances described in Trust Indenture Act Section 310(b), any Holder that satisfies the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(b) may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
  (iv) The Company may remove the Trustee if: (A) the Trustee is no longer eligible under Section 7.10; (B) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent; (C) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or (D) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee will become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section.
     (b) If the Trustee has been removed by the Holders, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes may appoint a successor Trustee with the consent of the Company. Otherwise, if the Trustee resigns or is removed, or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company will promptly appoint a successor Trustee. If the successor Trustee does not deliver its written acceptance within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
     (c) Upon delivery by the successor Trustee of a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company, (i) the retiring Trustee will transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07(c), (ii) the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee will
 
become effective, and (iii) the successor Trustee will have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under the Indenture. Upon request of any successor Trustee, the Company will execute any and all reasonable instruments for fully and vesting in and confirming to the successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts. The Company will give notice of any resignation and any removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee to all Holders, and include in the notice the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
     (d) Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 will continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
     (e) The Trustee agrees to give the notices provided for in, and otherwise comply with, Trust Indenture Act Section 310(b).
     Section 7.09 . If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business (including the administration of this Indenture) to, another corporation or national banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation or national banking association without any further act will be the successor Trustee with the same effect as if the successor Trustee had been named as the Trustee in the Indenture.
Successor Trustee by Merger
     Section 7.10 . The Indenture must always have a Trustee that satisfies the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a) and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $25,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
Eligibility
     Section 7.11 . The Trustee will not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as it may agree with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law and except for money held in trust under Article 8.
Money Held in Trust
     Section 8.01 .
Satisfaction and Discharge of the Indenture
     (a) This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect if either: (i) all outstanding Notes (other than Notes replaced pursuant to Section 2.07) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or (ii) all outstanding Notes have become due and payable on the Maturity Date or upon repurchase pursuant to Article 3, and the Company irrevocably deposits, prior to the applicable date on which such payment is due and payable, with the Trustee or the Paying Agent (if the Paying Agent is not the Company or any of its Affiliates) Cash, and, if applicable as herein provided and in accordance herewith, such other consideration, sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all outstanding Notes (other than Notes replaced pursuant to Section 2.07) on the Maturity Date or the Change
 
in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be; provided that, in either case, the Company pays to the Trustee all other sums payable hereunder by the Company.
     (b) The Company may exercise its satisfaction and discharge option with respect to the Notes only if:
     (i) no Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall exist on the date of such deposit;
     (ii) such deposit shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a Default or Event of Default under, this Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound; and
     (iii) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel (which may rely upon such Officers' Certificate as to the absence of Defaults and Events of Default and as to any factual matters), each stating that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
          Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 7.07 shall survive and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to clause (a) of this Section, the provisions of Section 2.03, Section 2.04, Section 2.05, Section 2.06, Section 2.07, Section 2.12, Section 3.01, Article 5, Article 10 and this Article 8, shall survive and the Company shall be required to make all payments and deliveries required by such Sections or Articles, as the case may be, irrespective of any prior satisfaction and discharge until the Notes have been paid in full.
     Section 8.02 . Subject to the provisions of Section 8.03, the Trustee or a Paying Agent shall hold in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, all money deposited with it pursuant to Section 8.01 and shall apply the deposited money in accordance with this Indenture and the Notes to the payment of the principal amount of and interest on the Notes.
Application of Trust Money
     Section 8.03 . The Trustee and each Paying Agent shall promptly pay to the Company upon request any excess money (x) deposited with them pursuant to Section 8.01 and (y) held by them at any time.
Repayment to Company
The Trustee and each Paying Agent shall also pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for the payment of the principal amount of Notes or interest thereon that remains unclaimed for two years after a right to such money has matured (which maturity shall occur, for the avoidance of doubt, on the Maturity Date or the Change in Control Purchase Date (with respect to any Notes repurchased pursuant to Article 3)); provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such payment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be mailed to each Holder entitled to such money or publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of New York notice that such money remains unclaimed and that after a date specified therein, which shall be at least 30 days from the date of such mailing or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the
 
Company. After payment to the Company, Holders entitled to money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
     Section 8.04 . If the Trustee or any Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 8.02 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.01 until such time as the Trustee or such Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02; provided, however, that if the Company has made any payment of the principal amount of or interest on any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive any such payment from the money held by the Trustee or such Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
     Section 9.01 . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes without notice to or the consent of any Noteholder:
Amendments Without Consent of Holders
     (a) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency in the Indenture or the Notes;
     (b) to comply with Article 5 or Section 10.12;
     (c) to comply with the Trust Indenture Act or any amendment thereto, or to comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act;
     (d) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of an appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee;
     (e) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes;
     (f) to secure the Notes;
     (g) to add guarantees with respect to the Notes;
     (h) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
     (i) to add any additional Events of Default;
     (j) to comply with the rules of any applicable securities depositary; or
 
     (k) to make any other change that does not materially adversely affect the rights of any Holder.
     Section 9.02 .
Amendments With Consent of Holders
     (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.07 or paragraph (b), the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture and the Notes with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes by written notice to the Trustee may waive future compliance by the Company with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes.
     (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a), without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or waiver may not
     (i) reduce the principal amount of, Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to, or any premium or interest payment on any Note,
     (ii) make any Note payable in currency or securities other than that stated in the Note,
     (iii) change the Stated Maturities of any installment of principal of any Note,
     (iv) make any change that adversely affects the Holders' right to convert any Note,
     (v) make any change that adversely affects the Holders' right to require the Company to purchase the Notes in accordance with the terms thereof and this Indenture,
     (vi) impair the right to convert or receive any principal or interest payment with respect to, a Note, or right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment with respect to, or conversion of, the Notes, or
     (vii) make any change in the percentage of the principal amount of the Notes required for amendments or waivers.
     (c) It is not necessary for Noteholders to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, supplement or waiver, but is sufficient if their consent approves the substance thereof.
     (d) An amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section will become effective on receipt by the Trustee of written consents from the Holders of the requisite percentage in principal amount of the outstanding Notes. After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section becomes effective, the Company will send to the Holders affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. The Company will send supplemental indentures to Holders upon request. Any
 
failure of the Company to send such notice, or any defect therein, will not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture or waiver.
     (e) With respect to the amendments set forth in Section 9.01 and this Section 9.02, no such amendment to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency made solely to conform the Indenture to the provisions of the description of the Notes as set forth in any final offering memorandum will be deemed to adversely affect the interests of the Noteholders.
     Section 9.03 .
Effect of Consent
     (a) After an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, it will bind every Holder unless it is of the type requiring the consent of each Holder affected. If the amendment, supplement or waiver is of the type requiring the consent of each Holder affected, the amendment, supplement or waiver shall bind each Holder that has consented to it and every subsequent Holder of a Note that evidences the same debt as the Note of the consenting Holder.
     (b) If an amendment, supplement or waiver changes the terms of a Note, the Trustee may require the Holder to deliver it to the Trustee so that the Trustee may place an appropriate notation of the changed terms on the Note and return it to the Holder, or exchange it for a new Note that reflects the changed terms. The Trustee may also place an appropriate notation on any Note thereafter authenticated. However, the effectiveness of the amendment, supplement or waiver is not affected by any failure to annotate or exchange Notes in this fashion.
     Section 9.04 . The Trustee is entitled to receive, and will be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Article is authorized or permitted by the Indenture. If the Trustee has received such an Opinion of Counsel, it shall sign the amendment, supplement or waiver so long as the same does not adversely affect the rights of the Trustee. The Trustee may, but is not obligated to, execute any amendment, supplement or waiver that affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Indenture.
Trustee's Rights and Obligations
     Section 9.05 . Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
Conformity With Trust Indenture Act
     Section 9.06 . Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates may, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration, whether by way of interest, fee or otherwise, to any Holder for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of the Indenture or the Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid or agreed to be paid to all Holders of the Notes that consent, waive or agree to amend such term or provision within the time period set forth in the solicitation documents relating to the consent, waiver or amendment.
Payments for Consents
 
     Section 10.01 . A Holder of a Note may convert such Note at any time on or prior to the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date upon the occurrence of any of the events set forth in paragraph 7(a), paragraph 7(b), paragraph 7(c), paragraph 7(d) or paragraph 7(e) of the Notes, subject to the provisions of this Article 10. Except as set forth below under Section 10.11, if a Holder surrenders its Notes for conversion, such Holder will receive, in respect of each $1,000 of principal amount of Notes to be converted:
Conversion Privilege
     (a) Cash in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) $1,000 and (B) the Conversion Value (the "Required Cash Amount"), and
     (b) if the Conversion Value is greater than $1,000, a number of shares of Common Stock (the "Remaining Shares"), equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the twenty consecutive Trading Days in the Conversion Reference Period, subject to the right of the Company to deliver Cash in lieu of all or a portion of such Remaining Shares as described below.
          By the Close of Business on the Business Day prior to the first scheduled Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company may specify a percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in Cash (the "Cash Percentage") and will notify the Noteholder of such Cash Percentage through written notice to the Trustee (the "Cash Percentage Notice"). If the Company elects to specify a Cash Percentage, (x) the amount of Cash that the Company will deliver pursuant to clause (b) of this Section 10.01 in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will equal the product of: (i) the Cash Percentage, (ii) the Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day, and (iii) the Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock for such Trading Day and (y) the number of shares of Common Stock deliverable in respect of each Business Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period (in lieu of the full Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day pursuant to clause (b) above) will be a percentage of the Daily Share Amount equal to 100% minus the Cash Percentage. If the Company does not specify a Cash Percentage by the Close of Business on the Trading Day prior to the first scheduled Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company shall settle 100% of the Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period with shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that the Company will pay Cash in lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable upon conversion of such Note, pursuant to Section 10.03 hereof. The Company may, at its option, revoke any Cash Percentage Notice through written notice to the Trustee by the Close of Business on the Business Day prior to the scheduled first Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period.
     (c) A Holder may convert a portion of the principal amount of a Note if the portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to conversion of all of a Note also apply to conversion of a portion of a Note.
 
     (d) In the event of a stock split, combination, dividend or any other event resulting in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09 or 10.10, during the applicable Conversion Reference Period, appropriate adjustment to the equation for calculating Conversion Value and Remaining Shares shall be made, as determined by the Board of Directors.
     (e) Notes with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder may be converted pursuant to this Article 10 only if the Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with Section 3.02.
     (f) Whenever any event described in paragraph 7(a), paragraph 7(b), paragraph 7(c), paragraph 7(d) or paragraph 7(e) of the Notes shall occur such that the Notes become convertible as provided in this Article 10, the Company shall (x) issue a press release and use its reasonable efforts to post such information on its website or otherwise publicly disclose this information or (y) promptly deliver, in accordance with Section 12.03, written notice of the convertibility of the Notes to the Trustee and each Noteholder and to the Conversion Agent for the benefit of the Noteholders, which press release, website posting, public disclosure or written notice, as the case may be, shall include:
     (i) a description of such event;
     (ii) a description of the periods during which the Notes shall be convertible as provided in paragraph 7(a), paragraph 7(b), paragraph 7(c), paragraph 7(d) or paragraph 7(e) of the Notes as a result of such event;
     (iii) a statement of whether an adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall take effect in respect of such event pursuant to Section 10.13; and
     (iv) the procedures Noteholders must follow to convert their Notes in accordance with this Article 10, including the name and address of the Conversion Agent.
     Section 10.02 .
Conversion Procedure
     (a) To convert a Note represented by a Global Note, a Noteholder must convert by book-entry transfer to the Conversion Agent through the facilities of the DTC. To convert a Note that is represented by a Certificated Note, a Noteholder must (1) complete and manually sign a Conversion Notice, a form of which is on the back of the Note, and deliver such Conversion Notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Note to the Conversion Agent, (3) if required by the Conversion Agent, furnish appropriate endorsement and transfer documents, and (4) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes. The Conversion Agent shall, within one (1) Business Day of any Conversion Date, provide notice to the Company, as set forth in Section 12.03, of the occurrence of such Conversion Date.
     (b) As promptly as practicable following the end of the Conversion Reference Period applicable to the Notes being converted, the Company shall deliver to the Holder, through the Conversion Agent, the Required Cash Amount and Remaining Shares, if any
 
(including Cash in lieu of Remaining Shares pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof and Cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to Section 10.03 hereof). The person in whose name the certificate representing any shares is registered shall be treated as a stockholder of record on and after the last Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period; , , that no surrender of a Note on any date when the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive the Remaining Shares upon such conversion as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock on such date, but such surrender shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive such shares of Common Stock as the record holder or holders thereof for all purposes at the Close of Business on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open. Upon conversion of a Note, such person shall no longer be a Holder of such Note.
provided
however
     (c) No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on, or other distributions with respect to, any Common Stock except as provided in this Article 10. Upon conversion of a Note, a Noteholder will not receive, except as described below, any Cash payment representing accrued interest. Instead, accrued interest will be deemed paid by the Cash and/or shares of common stock, if any, received by the Noteholder upon conversion. Delivery to the Noteholder of such Cash and/or shares of Common Stock will thus be deemed (1) to satisfy the Company's obligation to pay the principal amount of a Note, and (2) to satisfy the Company's obligation to pay accrued and unpaid interest on the Note. As a result, upon conversion of a Note, accrued and unpaid interest on such Note is deemed paid in full rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited.
     (d) Holders of Notes surrendered for conversion during the period from the Close of Business on any Regular Record Date next preceding any Interest Payment Date to the opening of business of such Interest Payment Date will receive the semiannual interest payable on such Notes on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion, and such Notes upon surrender must be accompanied by funds equal to the amount of such payment; provided that no such payment need be made (x) in connection with any conversion following the Regular Record Date immediately preceding the Maturity Date, (y) if the Company has specified a Change in Control Purchase Date that is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date or (z) to the extent of any Defaulted Interest, if any Defaulted Interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Note. The Company shall not be required to convert any Notes that are surrendered for conversion without payment of interest as required by this paragraph.
     (e) If the Holder converts more than one Note at the same time, the Required Cash Amount and the Remaining Shares, if any (together with the Cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) shall be based on the total principal amount of the Notes converted.
     (f) If the last day on which a Note may be converted is a Legal Holiday, the Note may be surrendered on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday.
 
     (g) Upon surrender of a Note that is converted in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder, a new Note in an authorized denomination equal in principal amount to the unconverted portion of the Note surrendered.
     Section 10.03 . The Company will not issue a fractional share of Common Stock upon conversion of a Note. Instead, the Company will deliver Cash in lieu of a fractional share based on arithmetic average of the Volume Weighted Average Price of Common Stock for each of the twenty consecutive Trading Days of the Conversion Reference Period, rounded to the nearest whole cent (the "Average Price").
Fractional Shares
     Section 10.04 . If a Holder converts a Note, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of any shares of Common Stock upon the conversion. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which will be due because the Common Stock is to be delivered in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any tax withholding required by law or regulations.
Taxes On Conversion
     Section 10.05 .
Company To Provide Common Stock
          The Company shall, prior to issuance of any Notes under this Article 10, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the delivery in respect of all outstanding Notes of the number of Remaining Shares due upon conversion (assuming, for purposes of this sentence, that the Company elects to deliver solely shares of Common Stock in respect of its obligation to deliver the Remaining Shares).
          All shares of Common Stock delivered upon payment of the Remaining Shares, if applicable, upon conversion of the Notes shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim.
          The Company will comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the offer and delivery of shares of Common Stock upon payment of the Remaining Shares, if applicable, upon conversion of Notes, if any, and will list or cause to have quoted such shares of Common Stock on each national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market or such other market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
          In addition, if any shares of Common Stock which would be issuable upon conversion of Notes hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority before such shares of Common Stock may be issued upon such conversion, the Company will cause such shares of Common Stock to be duly registered or approved, as the case may be.
 
     Section 10.06 .
Adjustment for Change In Capital Stock
     (a) If the Company shall, at any time and from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, issue a dividend or makes a distribution on its Common Stock payable in shares of its Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate at the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution will be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Rate by a fraction:
     (i) the numerator of which shall be the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution, plus the total number of shares of Common Stock constituting such dividend or other distribution; and
     (ii) the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding such Ex-Dividend Date.
          If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 10.06(a) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, in no event shall the Conversion Rate be decreased pursuant to this Section 10.06(a).
     (b) If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, subdivide or reclassify its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares of Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day upon which such subdivision becomes effective shall be proportionately increased, and conversely, if the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, combine or reclassify its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares of Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day upon which such combination or reclassification becomes effective shall be proportionately decreased. In each such case, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Rate by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after giving effect to such subdivision, combination or reclassification and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such subdivision or combination. Such increase or reduction, as the case may be, shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day upon which such subdivision, combination or reclassification becomes effective.
     Section 10.07 . If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while the Notes are outstanding, distribute rights to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, to purchase shares of Common Stock at less than the average of the Closing Prices for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately preceding the first public announcement of
Adjustment for Rights Issue
 
the distribution, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution by a fraction:
          Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution.
          To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered pursuant to such rights or upon the expiration or termination of such rights, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights been made on the basis of the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. In the event that such rights are not so distributed, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution had not occurred. In determining whether any rights entitle the holders to purchase shares of Common Stock at less than the average of the Closing Prices for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately preceding the first public announcement of the relevant distribution, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received for such rights and the value of such consideration if other than Cash, to be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors. Except as set forth in this paragraph, in no event shall the Conversion Rate be decreased pursuant to this Section 10.07.
     Section 10.08 .
Adjustment for Other Distributions
     (a) If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while the Notes are outstanding, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock any of its Capital Stock, assets, or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company (excluding (w) any distribution of Capital Stock of, or similar equity interests in, a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company referred to in Section 10.08(b) below, (x) any distributions described in Section 10.06(a) above, (y) any rights described in Section 10.07 above, (z) any cash dividends or other cash distributions referred to in
 
Section 10.09 below) (such Capital Stock, assets, debt securities or rights to purchase securities of the Company being distributed hereinafter in this Section 10.08 called the "Distributed Assets"), the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall be equal to the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date with respect to such distribution by a fraction:
     (i) the numerator of which will be the Current Market Price of the Common Stock, and
     (ii) the denominator of which will be the Current Market Price of the Common Stock minus the fair market value, as determined by the Board of Directors, of the portion of Distributed Assets so distributed applicable to one share of the Common Stock (determined on the basis of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such Ex-Dividend Date).
          Such increase shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. In the event that such distribution is not so made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such distribution had not been declared. Except as set forth in the prior sentence, in no event shall the Conversion Rate be decreased pursuant to this Section 10.08(a).
          If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any distribution for purposes of this Section 10.08(a) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any Distributed Assets comprising all or part of such distribution, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period (the "Reference Period") used in computing the Current Market Price for purposes of clause (i) above, unless the Board of Directors determines in good faith that determining the fair market value during the Reference Period would not be in the best interest of the Holders.
     (b) With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 10.08 where there has been a payment of a dividend or other distribution on Common Stock of shares of capital stock of, or similar equity interests in, a subsidiary or other business unit of the Company, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the record date with respect to such distribution by a fraction:
     (i) the numerator of which shall be (a) the average of the closing sale prices of the capital stock or similar equity interest distributed to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock over the five Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution on the principal national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which such securities are then listed or traded, plus (b) the average of the Closing Prices over the five Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution (the "Average Sale Price"), and
 
     (ii) the denominator of which shall be the Average Sale Price.
     Section 10.09 . If the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the Notes are outstanding, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its shares of Common Stock, Cash (excluding (x) any distributions described in Section 10.10 below or (y) any dividend or distribution in connection with the Company's liquidation, dissolution or winding up), then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the opening of business of the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution by a fraction:
Adjustment for Cash Dividends
          Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. In the event that such distribution is not so made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
     Section 10.10 . In case the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall, at any time or from time to time, while any of the Notes are outstanding, distribute Cash or other consideration in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer made by the Company or any Subsidiary for all or any portion of the Common Stock, where the sum of the aggregate amount of such Cash distributed and the aggregate fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and set forth in a Board Resolution), as of the Expiration Date (as defined below), of such other consideration distributed (such sum, the "Aggregate Amount") expressed as an amount per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged, and not withdrawn, pursuant to such tender offer or exchange offer as of the Expiration Time (as defined below) (such tendered or exchanged shares of Common Stock, the "Purchased Shares") exceeds the Closing Price per share of the Common Stock on the first Trading Day immediately following the last date (such last date, the "Expiration Date") on which tenders or exchanges could have been made pursuant to such tender offer or exchange offer (as the same may be amended through the Expiration Date), then, and in each case, immediately after the close of business on such date, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the Trading Day immediately following the Expiration Date by a fraction:
Adjustment for Certain Tender Offers
 
An adjustment, if any, to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 10.10 shall become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the second Trading Day immediately following the Expiration Date. In the event that the Company or a Subsidiary is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender offer or exchange offer, but the Company or such Subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases, or all such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such tender offer or exchange offer had not been made. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, if the application of this Section 10.10 to any tender offer or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender offer or exchange offer under this Section 10.10.
     Section 10.11 . Rights or warrants distributed by the Company to all holders of Common Stock entitling the holders thereof to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Company's Capital Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights, options or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events ("Trigger Event"): (i) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (ii) are not exercisable; and (iii) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event, whereupon such rights, options and warrants shall be deemed to have been distributed and an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made under Section 10.08, except as set forth in Section 10.23. If any such right, option or warrant, including any such existing rights, options or warrants distributed prior to the date of this Indenture, are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights, options or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and Ex-Dividend Date with respect to new rights, options or warrants with such rights (and a termination or expiration of the existing rights, options or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof), except as set forth in Section 10.23. In addition, except as set forth in Section 10.23, in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights, options or warrants, or any Trigger Event or other event (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 was made (including any adjustment contemplated in Section 10.23), (1) in the case of any such rights, options or warrants
Provisions Governing Adjustment to Conversion Rate
 
that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a Cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common Stock with respect to such rights, options or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights, options or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights, options or warrants that shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights, options and warrants had not been issued.
     Section 10.12 . If any of the following events (any such event, a "Disposition Event") occurs:
Disposition Events
     (a) any reclassification of the Common Stock (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination);
     (b) any merger, consolidation or other combination involving the Company; or
     (c) any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company to any other Person;
in each case, as a result of which all of the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive Cash, securities or other property for their shares of Common Stock, the Company or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture, if such supplemental indenture is then required to so comply) providing that notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.01, and subject to the provisions of paragraph 7 of the Notes, the Conversion Value with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Notes converted following the effective date of any Disposition Event, shall be calculated based on the kind and amount of Cash, securities or other property (collectively, "Reference Property") received upon the occurrence of such Disposition Event by a holder of Common Stock holding, immediately prior to the transaction, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate immediately prior to such Disposition Event; provided that if the Disposition Event provides the holders of Common Stock with the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the Reference Property shall be comprised of the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of the Common Stock.
     If the Conversion Value of the Notes shall be based on Reference Property as set forth above, the Company's obligation to deliver the consideration described in Section 10.01 with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Notes tendered for conversion after the effective date of any such Disposition Event, shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in Section 10.01, be settled in Cash and units of Reference Property (if applicable) and the Company shall deliver, as promptly as practicable immediately following the last Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period:
 
that, in each case, (x) the Conversion Value and the Daily Share Amounts, shall be determined as if the words "Volume Weighted Average Price per share of Common Stock" in the definition of each such term were replaced by the words "Volume Weighted Average Price per unit of Reference Property composed of the kind and amount of Cash, securities or other property that a holder of one share of Common Stock immediately prior to such Disposition Event would have owned or been entitled to receive", (y) the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be determined with respect to such a unit of Reference Property and (z) references to "Remaining Shares" and "shares of Common Stock" were instead references to "a unit of Reference Property composed of the kind and amount of Cash, securities or other property that a holder of one share of Common Stock immediately prior to such Disposition Event would have owned or been entitled to receive."
provided
          Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 10. If, in the case of any such Disposition Event, the stock or other securities and assets receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock includes shares of stock or other securities and assets of a Person other than the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, in such Disposition Event, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other Person and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Noteholders as the Board of Directors shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing.
          The Company shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Noteholder, at the address of such Noteholder as it appears on the register of the Notes maintained by the Registrar, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture.
          The above provisions of this Section 10.12 shall similarly apply to successive Disposition Events.
If this Section 10.12 applies to any event or occurrence, none of Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 shall apply.
 
     Section 10.13 .
Adjustment to Conversion Rate Upon Change in Control Transactions, Discretionary Adjustment
     (a) If, after the Issue Date, a Change in Control occurs and a Holder elects to convert its Notes in connection with such Change in Control, the Company will increase the Conversion Rate for the Notes surrendered for conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the "Make-Whole Shares"), as described in this Section 10.13. A conversion of Notes will be deemed for the purposes of this Section 10.13 to be "in connection with" a Change in Control transaction if the notice of conversion of the Notes is received by the Conversion Agent from and including the effective date of the Change in Control transaction up to and including the Trading Day prior to the related Change in Control Purchase Date.
     (b) The number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by reference to the table below and is based on the date which such Change in Control transaction becomes effective (the "Change in Control Effective Date") and the price paid per share of Common Stock in the Change in Control (in the case of a change in control described in clause (ii) of the definition thereof), or in the case of all other Changes in Control, the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock over the five Trading-Day period ending on the Trading Day preceding the relevant Change in Control Effective Date (the "Stock Price"). If holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the case of a Change in Control described in clause (ii) of the definition thereof, the Stock Price shall be the Cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock over the five Trading-Day period ending on the Trading Day preceding the relevant Change in Control Effective Date.
     (c) The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the table below will be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices will equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. In addition, the number of Make-Whole Shares on the table below will be subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 10.06 through Section 10.10.
 
     (d) If the exact Stock Prices and Change in Control Effective Dates are not set forth in the table, then: (i) if the Stock Price is between two Stock Prices in the table or the Change in Control Effective Date is between two Change in Control Effective Dates in the table, the Make-Whole Shares issued upon conversion of the Notes will be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Prices and the earlier and later Change in Control Effective Dates in the table, based on a 365-day year, (ii) if the Stock Price is in excess of $32.00 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 10.13(c), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Notes; and (iii) if the Stock Price is less than $15.61 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 10.13(c), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Notes.
     (e) The Company may make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by Sections 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09 and 10.10 as the Board of Directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock (or rights to acquire stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes.
     (f) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Company from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time if the period is at least twenty (20) days, the increase is irrevocable during the period and the Board of Directors shall have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of the Company, which determination shall be conclusive. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Company shall mail to holders of record of the Notes a notice of the increase at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect, and such notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect.
     Section 10.14 . No adjustment in the Conversion Rate need be made unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of the Conversion Rate. Any adjustments that are less than 1% of the Conversion Rate shall be carried forward and taken into account in determining any subsequent adjustment. In addition, the Company shall make any carry forward adjustments not otherwise effected upon required purchase of the notes pursuant to Section 3.01, and on April 5, 2013.
When Adjustment May Be Deferred
     Section 10.15 .
When No Adjustment Required
     (a) No adjustment need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 10.06, Section 10.07, Section 10.08, Section 10.09 or Section 10.10 if Noteholders participate, without conversion, in the transaction or event that would otherwise give rise to an adjustment pursuant to such Section at the same time as holders of the Common Stock participate with respect to such transaction or event and on the same terms as holders of the Common Stock participate with respect to such transaction or event as if Noteholders, at such time, held a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate at such time.
 
     (b) No adjustment need be made for the issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock or carrying the right to purchase Common Stock or any such security.
     (c) No adjustment need be made for rights to purchase Common Stock pursuant to a Company plan for reinvestment of dividends or interest.
     (d) No adjustment need be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock.
     (e) To the extent the Notes become convertible pursuant to this Article 10 into Cash, no adjustment need be made thereafter as to the Cash. Interest will not accrue on the Cash.
     (f) The Conversion Rate shall not exceed 64.0615 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes on account of adjustments to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Article 10, subject to the adjustments set forth in Sections 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09 and 10.10 above. Further, notwithstanding anything in this Article 10 (subject only to the provisions of the second succeeding sentence), the conversion rate shall not exceed 103.4974 per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes (provided that if and to the extent that the Initial Purchasers' option to purchase additional Notes or additional 2011 Notes is exercised, the maximum conversion rate shall be ratably decreased, such that in the case of a full exercise by the Initial Purchasers of their option to purchase the Notes and the 2011 Notes, the conversion rate shall not exceed 94.0886 per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes, other than as a result of adjustments to the Conversion Rate in the manner set forth in Sections 10.06, 10.07 and 10.08 (such limitations herein referred to as the "Conversion Rate Cap"). The Company shall not take any action if, as a result of such action, the adjustment to the Conversion Rate that would otherwise be made pursuant to the provisions of 10.09 or 10.10 would be limited by the Conversion Rate Cap, unless such action would not result in a violation of NASD Rule 4350 as such rule or successor to such rule may be then in effect and interpreted by the NASD. If such action would not result in a violation of NASD Rule 4350, then the Conversion Rate Cap shall not apply to such action taken by the Company.
     Section 10.16 . Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Company shall promptly mail to Noteholders a notice of the adjustment. The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent such notice and a certificate from the Company's independent public accountants briefly stating the facts requiring the adjustment and the manner of computing it. The certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such certificate except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof.
Notice of Adjustment
     Section 10.17 . If (a) the Company takes any action that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09 or 10.10 (unless no adjustment is to occur pursuant to Section 10.14 or Section 10.15), (b) the Company takes any action that would require a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section
Notice of Certain Transactions
 
10.12, or (c) there is a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, then the Company shall mail to Noteholders and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice stating the proposed Ex-Dividend Date for a dividend or distribution or the proposed effective date of a subdivision, combination, reclassification, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, transfer, liquidation or dissolution. The Company shall file and mail the notice at least 15 days before such date; provided that if the Company elects to make a distribution described in Section 10.07, Section 10.08, or Section 10.09, and in the case of Section 10.08 or Section 10.09, that has a per share value equal to more than 10% of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on the day preceding the declaration date for such distribution, the Company shall give notice to Holders at least 20 Trading Days prior to the Ex-dividend Date for such distribution. Failure to file or mail the notice or any defect in it shall not affect the validity of the transaction.
     Section 10.18 . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Note shall have the right to convert its Note in accordance with this Article 10 and paragraph 7 of the Notes and to bring an action for the enforcement of any such right to convert, and such rights shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
Right of Holders to Convert
     Section 10.19 . The Company shall be responsible for making all calculations called for hereunder and under the Notes. These calculations include, but are not limited to, Conversion Value, the Conversion Date, the Volume Weighted Average Price, the Conversion Reference Period, the Closing Price, the Conversion Price, the Required Cash Amount, the Applicable Conversion Rate and the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, to be issued upon conversion of the Notes. The Company shall make all these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, the Company's calculations will be final and binding on Noteholders. The Company shall provide a schedule of the Company's calculations to the Trustee, and the Trustee is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of the Company's calculations without independent verification.
Company Determination Final
     Section 10.20 . The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article 10 should be made, how it should be made or what it should be. The Trustee has no duty to determine whether a supplemental indenture under Section 10.12 need be entered into or whether any provisions of any supplemental indenture are correct. The Trustee shall not be accountable for and makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Notes. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with this Article 10. Each Conversion Agent shall have the same protection under this Section 10.20 as the Trustee.
Trustee's Adjustment Disclaimer
     Section 10.21 .
Simultaneous Adjustments
     (a) For purposes of Section 10.08, Section 10.06(a) and Section 10.07, any dividend or distribution to which Section 10.08 is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock, or rights, options or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the debt securities, assets or shares of Capital Stock other than such shares of Common Stock or rights (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 10.08 with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by (2)
 
a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 10.06(a) and Section 10.07 with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made), except any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed "outstanding at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding such Ex-Dividend Date" within the meaning of Section 10.06(a).
     (b) The reclassification of the Common Stock into securities including securities other than Common Stock (other than any reclassification upon an event to which Section 10.12 applies) shall be deemed to involve (a) a distribution of such securities other than the Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock (and the effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be the "Ex-Dividend Date" within the meaning of this Section 10.08), and (b) a subdivision or combination, as the case may be, of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such reclassification into the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately thereafter (and the effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be "the day upon which such subdivision becomes effective" or "the day upon which such combination becomes effective", as the case may be, and "the day upon which such subdivision or combination becomes effective" within the meaning of Section 10.06(b)).
     Section 10.22 . After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Article 10, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Article 10 shall cause an adjustment to the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
Successive Adjustments
     Section 10.23 . Each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes pursuant to this Article 10 shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of rights ("Rights"), if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such conversion shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of the Rights Agreement, dated as of August 12, 1998, between the Company and BankBoston, N.A., as Rights Agent, or any successor shareholder rights agreement adopted by the Company, as the same may be amended form time to time (in each case, a "Shareholders Rights Plan"). If the Shareholders Rights Plan under which any Rights are issued provides that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing such Rights will be entitled to receive such Rights, there shall not be any adjustment to the conversion privilege or Conversion Rate at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing such Rights. If, however, prior to any conversion the Rights have separated from the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company distributed to all Holders of the Common Stock, its assets, debt securities or rights as described in Section 10.08 above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such Rights.
Rights Issued in Respect of Common Stock Issued Upon Conversion
     Section 10.24 . The Company may, at its option, set-off withholding taxes due with respect to Notes against payments of Cash and Common Stock on the Notes to the extent required by law. In the case of any such set-off against Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Notes, such Common
Withholding Taxes for Adjustments in Conversion Rate
 
Stock shall be valued based on the arithmetic average of the Volume Weighted Average Price for each Trading Day in the relevant Conversion Reference Period.
     Section 11.01 . Interest on any Note that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any applicable Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the person in whose name that Note is registered at the Close of Business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose. Each installment of interest payable in Cash on any Note shall be paid in same-day funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located inside the United States, if the Trustee shall have received proper wire transfer instructions from such payee not later than the related Regular Record Date or, if no such instructions have been received by check drawn on a bank in the United States mailed to the payee at its address set forth on the Registrar's books. In the case of a Global Note, interest payable on any applicable payment date will be paid by wire transfer of same-day funds to the Depositary, with respect to that portion of such Global Note held for its account by Cede & Co. for the purpose of permitting such party to credit the interest received by it in respect of such Global Note to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
Interest Payments
     Section 11.02 . Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Note, any interest on any Note that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, within 30 days following any applicable payment date (herein called "Defaulted Interest", which term shall include any accrued and unpaid interest that has accrued on such defaulted amount in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Notes), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (a) or (b) below.
Defaulted Interest
     (a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the Close of Business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment (which shall not be less than 20 days after such notice is received by the Trustee), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment (the "Special Record Date"). The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Notes at his address as it appears on the list of Noteholders maintained pursuant to Section 2.05 not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and
 
the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the Close of Business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (b).
     (b) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Notes in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
     Section 11.03 . Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article 11 and Section 2.06, each Note delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Note shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Notes.
Interest Rights Preserved
     Section 12.01 . The Indenture shall incorporate and be governed by the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of and to govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
Trust Indenture Act of 1939
     Section 12.02 .
Noteholder Communications; Noteholder Actions
     (a) The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to the Indenture or the Notes are as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and the Company and the Trustee shall comply with the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Sections 312(a) and 312(b). Neither the Company nor the Trustee will be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
     (b) (i) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent to amendment, supplement or waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by a Holder (an "act") may be evidenced by an instrument signed by the Holder delivered to the Trustee. The fact and date of the execution of the instrument, or the authority of the person executing it, may be proved in any manner that the Trustee deems sufficient.
  (ii) The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders, which will be binding on all the Holders.
 
     (c) Any act by the Holder of any Note binds that Holder and every subsequent Holder of a Note that evidences the same debt as the Note of the acting Holder, even if no notation thereof appears on the Note. Subject to paragraph (d), a Holder may revoke an act as to its Notes, but only if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver or other consequence of the act becomes effective.
     (d) The Company may, but is not obligated to, fix a record date (which need not be within the time limits otherwise prescribed by Trust Indenture Act Section 316(c)) for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to act with respect to any amendment or waiver or in any other regard, except that during the continuance of an Event of Default, only the Trustee may set a record date as to notices of default, any declaration or acceleration or any other remedies or other consequences of the Event of Default. If a record date is fixed, those Persons that were Holders at such record date and only those Persons will be entitled to act, or to revoke any previous act, whether or not those Persons continue to be Holders after the record date. No act will be valid or effective for more than 90 days after the record date.
     Section 12.03 .
Notices
     (a) Any notice or communication to the Company will be deemed given if in writing (i) when delivered in person or (ii) five days after mailing when mailed by first class mail, or (iii) when sent by facsimile transmission, with transmission confirmed. Any notice to the Trustee will be effective only upon receipt. In each case the notice or communication should be addressed as follows:
if to the Company:
Symantec Corporation 20330 Stevens Creek Boulevard Cupertino, CA 95014 Attention: Treasurer Tel: (408) 517-7835 Fax: (408) 517-8442
with a copy to:
Symantec Corporation 20330 Stevens Creek Boulevard Cupertino, CA 95014 Attention: General Counsel Tel: (408) 517-8324 Fax: (408) 517-8121
if to the Trustee:
U.S. Bank National Association 633 West Fifth Street, 24 Floor Los Angeles, CA 90071
th
 
Attention: Corporate Trust Services (Symantec Corporation 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013) Tel: (213) 615-6043 Fax: (213) 615-6197
          The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
     (b) Except as otherwise expressly provided with respect to published notices, any notice or communication to a Holder will be deemed given when mailed to the Holder at its address as it appears on the Register by first class mail or, as to any Global Note registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as agreed by the Company, the Trustee and the Depository. Copies of any notice or communication to a Holder, if given by the Company, will be mailed to the Trustee at the same time. Any defect in mailing a notice or communication to any particular Holder will not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
     (c) Where the Indenture provides for notice, the notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and the waiver will be the equivalent of the notice. Waivers of notice by Holders must be filed with the Trustee, but such filing is not a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waivers.
     Section 12.04 . Noteholders may communicate pursuant to Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other Noteholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of Section 312(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
     Section 12.05 . Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under the Indenture, the Company will furnish to the Trustee:
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
     Section 12.06 . Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in the Indenture must include:
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
 
     Section 12.07 . A "Legal Holiday" is any day other than a Business Day. If any specified date (including a date for giving notice) is a Legal Holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and, if the action to be taken on such date is a payment in respect of the Notes, interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Legal Holiday
     Section 12.08 . The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Noteholders. The Registrar, Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar
     Section 12.09 . THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES.
Governing Law
     Section 12.10 . The Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture or loan or debt agreement of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, and no such indenture or loan or debt agreement may be used to interpret the Indenture.
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
     Section 12.11 . All agreements of the Company in the Indenture and the Notes will bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in the Indenture will bind its successor.
Successors
     Section 12.12 . The parties may sign any number of copies of the Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Duplicate Originals
     Section 12.13 . In case any provision in the Indenture or in the Notes is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability
     Section 12.14 . The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and headings of the Articles and Sections of the Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of the Indenture and in no way modify or restrict any of the terms and provisions of the Indenture.
Table of Contents and Headings
 
     Section 12.15 . No director, officer, employee, incorporator, member or stockholder of the Company, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees, Incorporators, Members and Stockholders
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
EXHIBIT A
[CUSIP] 871503AE8
[ISIN] US871503AE83
No.
          Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, promises to pay to ___, or its registered assigns, the principal sum of ___ DOLLARS ($___) on June 15, 2013, or such lesser amount as indicated on the Schedule of Exchanges of Notes on the other side of this Note to reflect exchanges, purchases and conversions.
          Initial Interest Rate: 1.00% per annum.
          Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2006.
          Regular Record Dates: June 1 and December 1.
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
 
          This is one of the 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes Due June 15, 2013 described in the Indenture referred to in this Note.
 
          The Company promises to pay the principal of this Note on June 15, 2013.
          The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note on each Interest Payment Date, as set forth on the face of this Note, at the rate of 1.00% per annum (subject to adjustment as provided below).
          Interest will be payable semiannually in arrears (to the holders of record of the Notes at the close of business on the June 1 or December 1 immediately preceding the interest payment date) on each interest payment date, commencing December 15, 2006.
          Interest on this Note will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid on this Note or the Note surrendered in exchange for this Note (or, if there is no existing default in the payment of interest and if this Note is authenticated between a regular record date and the next interest payment date, from such interest payment date) or, if no interest has been paid, from the Issue Date. Interest will be computed in the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
          The Company will pay interest on overdue principal, premium, if any, and, to the extent lawful, interest at a rate per annum that is 2% in excess of 1.00%. Interest not paid when due and any interest on principal, premium or interest not paid when due will be paid to the Persons that are Holders on a special record date, which will established as set forth in the Indenture referred to below.
          Additional interest will accrue on the Notes at an additional rate per year equal to 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Notes under the circumstances set forth in Section 6.02(c) of the Indenture (as defined below).
          Any payment required to be made on any day that is not a Business Day will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, without additional interest.
          The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 16, 2006, between the Company and the Initial Purchasers named therein (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). In the event of a Registration Default, as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement, the Holder is entitled to additional interest for the period from and including the day following the occurrence of the Registration Default to, but excluding, the earlier of the day on which the Registration Default has been cured or June 16, 2008. Additional
 
interest will accrue at an additional rate per year equal to 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Notes.
          Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall pay interest on this Note to the person who is the Holder of this Note at the close of business on the Regular Record Date next preceding the related Interest Payment Date. The Company will pay any Cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
          Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar. The Company may maintain deposit accounts and conduct other banking transactions with the Trustee in the normal course of business.
          This is one of the Notes issued under an Indenture dated as of June 16, 2006 (as amended from time to time, the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee. Capitalized terms used herein are used as defined in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act for a statement of all such terms. To the extent permitted by applicable law, in the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Note and the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Indenture will control.
          The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company.
          At the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to purchase the Notes held by such Holder on the date, at the purchase price and as otherwise provided in the Indenture.
          Holders have the right to withdraw any Change in Control Purchase Notice by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
          If Cash (and/or securities if permitted under the Indenture) sufficient to pay the Change in Control Purchase Price of, together with any accrued and unpaid interest with respect to, all Notes or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date is deposited with the Paying Agent on or prior to the third Business Day following the Change in
 
Control Purchase Date, interest shall cease to accrue on such Notes (or portions thereof) immediately after such Change in Control Purchase Date whether or not the Note is delivered to the Paying Agent, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such (other than the right to receive the Change in Control Purchase Price and accrued and unpaid interest upon surrender of such Notes).
          A Holder of a Note may convert such Note into Cash and, to the extent the Conversion Value of such Note is greater than $1,000, Cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, at the option of the Company, as described in the Indenture before the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding Maturity Date, if at least one of the following conditions is satisfied:
          (a) during any calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2006, and only during such calendar quarter, if the Closing Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 Trading Days in the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of the preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the Conversion Price per share of Common Stock on the last day of such preceding calendar quarter (the "Conversion Trigger Price");
          (b) during the five Business Day period immediately after any five consecutive Trading Day period (the "Measurement Period") in which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for each day of such Measurement Period was less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price of the Common Stock on such date and the Conversion Rate on such date;
          (c) the Company elects to distribute to all holders of Common Stock (i) rights or warrants entitling all holders of the Common Stock to subscribe for or purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, Common Stock at less than the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution, or (ii) Cash, debt securities (or other evidence of Debt) or other assets (excluding dividends or distributions described in Section 10.06 of the Indenture), which distribution, together with all other distributions within the preceding twelve months, has a per share value exceeding 10% of the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution; or
          (d) if a Change of Control occurs or if the Company is a party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange or transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into Cash, securities or other assets; or
          (e) at any time on or after April 5, 2013 until the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date.
          The Conversion Agent will determine on the Company's behalf at the beginning of each calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2006 through the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2013 whether the Notes are convertible as a result of the price of the
 
Common Stock pursuant to clause (a) above and will notify the Company and the Trustee if the Notes are so convertible.
          The Trustee shall have no obligation to determine the Trading Price of the Notes pursuant to clause (b) above unless the Company has requested such determination; and the Company shall have no obligation to make such request unless a Holder provides the Company with reasonable evidence that the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes would be less than 98% of the product of the Closing Price and the Conversion Rate. At such time, the Company shall instruct the Trustee to determine the Trading Price beginning on the next Trading Day and on each successive Trading Day until the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes is greater than or equal to 98% of the product of the Closing Price and the Conversion Rate.
          If the Company makes a distribution described in subsection (c)(i) or (c)(ii), the Company must notify Holders at least 20 Trading Days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. Once the Company has given such notice, Holders may surrender their Notes for conversion at any time until the earlier of the Close of Business on the Business Day prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution or the Company's announcement that such distribution will not take place, even if the Notes are not convertible at that time.
          The Company will notify Noteholders and the Trustee as promptly as practicable following the date on which the Company publicly announces any transaction described in clause (d) above, but in no event less than 20 Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction. Noteholders may surrender their Notes for conversion at any time after the date that is 15 Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction until 35 Trading Days after the actual date of such transaction (or, if such transaction also constitutes a Change in Control, until the Change in Control Purchase date).
          If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Indenture. If a bankruptcy or insolvency default with respect to the Company occurs and is continuing, the Notes automatically become due and payable. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Notes. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of remedies.
          Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, the Indenture and the Notes may be amended, or default may be waived, with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes. Without notice to or the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or if such amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect.
 
          The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Trustee may require a Holder to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. Pursuant to the Indenture, there are certain periods during which the Trustee will not be required to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Note or certain portions of a Note.
          The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
          The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property laws. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
          Subject to certain limitations imposed by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
          A director, officer, incorporator, agent, subsidiary, employee, member or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Noteholder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
          This Note shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
          THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE.
          Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian) and U/G/M/A/ (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
          The Company will furnish a copy of the Indenture to any Holder upon written request and without charge.
 
          FOR VALUE RECEIVED the undersigned registered holder hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
Insert Taxpayer Identification No.
attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the Company with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
          To convert this Note, check the box:
o
          To convert only part of this Note, state the principal amount to be converted (must be $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple of $1,000 principal amount): $[     ] .
          If you want the Cash paid to another person or the stock certificate, if any, made out in another person's name, fill in the form below:
and irrevocably appoint
agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
 
 
          The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for Notes in certificated form, have been made:
 
 
In connection with any transfer of this Note occurring prior to the Resale Restriction Termination Date, unless such Note has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or any similar provision then in force, the undersigned confirms that it is making, and it has not utilized any general solicitation or general advertising in connection with, the transfer:
Unless one of the items (1) through (3) is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered Holder thereof; provided, however, that if item (3) is checked, the Company and the Trustee reserve the right to require the delivery of such legal opinions, certifications or other evidence as may reasonably be required in order to determine that the proposed transfer is being made in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and applicable state securities laws.
If none of the foregoing items are checked, the Trustee or Registrar shall not be obligated to register this Note in the name of any person other than the Holder hereof unless and until the conditions to any such transfer of registration set forth herein and in the Indenture shall have been satisfied.

 
Exhibit 4.03
 
     This Registration Rights Agreement (the "") is made and entered into this 16th day of June, 2006, among Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., (""), Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("") and UBS Securities LLC (""), acting on behalf of the several parties named in Schedule 1 to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below) (collectively, the "").
Agreement
Company
Citigroup
Morgan Stanley
UBS
Initial Purchasers
     This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated June 12, 2006, among the Company, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and UBS, as representatives for the Initial Purchasers (the ""), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of (i) $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "") and (ii) $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the "," and together with the 2011 Notes, the ""). The Notes together with the shares of Common Stock (as defined below) into which the Notes are convertible are referred to herein as the ""). In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
2011 Notes
2013 Notes
Notes
Securities
     In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
     "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
1933 Act
     "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of l934, as amended.
1934 Act
     "" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
1939 Act
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.
Additional Interest
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
     "" shall mean any calendar day on which the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and Securities and Exchange Commission are open for trading or business, as the case may be.
Business Day
     "" shall have the meaning given to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Closing Date
     "" shall mean any shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, of the Company and any other shares of common stock as may constitute "Common Stock" for purposes of the Indentures.
Common Stock
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors.
Company
 
2
     "" shall mean The Depository Trust Company and its successors or assigns, or any other depositary appointed by the Company, , , that such appointed depositary must have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York, unless no such depositary is available.
Depositary
provided
however
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b).
Effectiveness Period
     "" shall mean the final offering memorandum dated June 12, 2006.
Final Memorandum
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Free Writing Prospectus
     "" shall mean any Initial Purchaser, for so long as it owns any Registrable Securities, and each of its successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become registered owners of Registrable Securities under the Indentures.
Holder
     "" shall mean, collectively, the Indenture relating to the 2011 Notes, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, as the same may be amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof, and the Indenture relating to the 2013 Notes, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, as the same may be amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indentures
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Purchasers
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" shall mean Holders holding over 50% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding; provided that, for the purpose of this definition, a holder of shares of Common Stock into which the Notes were converted shall be deemed to hold an aggregate principal amount of the Notes (in addition to the principal amount of Notes held by such holder) equal to the product of (A) the quotient of (x) the number of such shares of Common Stock held by such holder and (y) the conversion rate (as expressed in the number of shares of Common Stock issuable per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes) in effect at the time of the conversion of the Notes into such shares of Common Stock as determined in accordance with the Indenture and (B) $1,000; , that whenever the consent or approval of the Majority Holders or of a specified percentage of the Holders of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Notes, or Common Stock into which the Notes were converted, held by the Company or any Affiliate (as defined in the Indentures) of the Company shall be disregarded in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Majority Holders or such specified percentage of the Holders of Registrable Securities.
Majority Holders
provided
     "" shall mean an individual, partnership (general or limited), corporation, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
     "" shall mean the prospectus relating to the Securities included in a Shelf Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including any such prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities
Prospectus
 
3
covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all materials incorporated by reference therein.
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchase Agreement
     "" shall mean all or any of the Securities; , , that any such Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities on the second anniversary of the Closing Date or, if earlier, when (i) a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such Securities shall have become effective under the 1933 Act and such Securities shall have been sold or transferred pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) such Securities have been or may be sold or transferred to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force, including Rule 144(k)) under the 1933 Act, or (iii) such Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding.
Registrable Securities
provided
however
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.
Registration Default
     "" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC or National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "") registration and filing fees, including, if applicable, the fees and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" (and its counsel) that is required to be retained by any holder of Registrable Securities in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws and compliance with the rules of the NASD (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any of the Registrable Securities and any filings with the NASD), (iii) all expenses of the Company in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any securities sales agreements and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange or exchanges, (v) all rating agency fees, if any (vi) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, (vii) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee, and any escrow agent or custodian, and (viii) the reasonable fees and expenses (not to exceed in the aggregate $10,000) of a single counsel to the Holders in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders, but excluding any underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder and, except as provided under clause (viii) above, all expenses and fees for all counsel and other professionals representing the Holders.
Registration Expenses
NASD
     "" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency or government body performing the functions currently performed by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Securities
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a).
Shelf Effectiveness Deadline
     "" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2.1.
Shelf Registration
 
4
     "" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.1 of this Agreement which covers all of the Registrable Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all materials incorporated by reference therein; , , that a registration statement shall not be deemed a Shelf Registration Statement until such time as it includes a Prospectus relating to the Securities.
Shelf Registration Statement
provided
however
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5.
Suspension Period
     "" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indentures.
Trustee
     "" shall mean an underwriter, as defined in the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, of the Securities in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement.
Underwriter
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
     2.1 .
Shelf Registration
     (a) The Company shall, at its cost, file with the SEC, and use its reasonable efforts to cause to become effective, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders that have provided the Questionnaire and the other information pursuant to Section 2.1(c), no later than 180 days after the Closing Date (the ""). If the Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer at the time of filing the Shelf Registration Statement with the SEC, such Shelf Registration Statement shall be designated by the Company as an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement.
Shelf Effectiveness Deadline
     (b) The Company shall, at its cost, use its reasonable efforts, subject to Section 2.5, to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders until such time as all of the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities (the "").
Effectiveness Period
     (c) Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, no Holder of Registrable Securities may include any of its Registrable Securities in the Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement unless the Holder furnishes to the Company a fully completed notice and questionnaire in the form attached as Annex A to the Final Memorandum (the "") and such other information in writing as the Company may reasonably request in writing for use in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus included therein and in any application to be filed with or under state securities laws. At least 30 days prior to the filing of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company will provide notice to the Holders of its intention to file the Shelf Registration Statement; , that if the Company elects to register the Registrable Securities pursuant to a Prospectus to a Shelf Registration Statement that has already been declared effective, the Company will provide notice to the Holders of its intention to file the initial Prospectus at least 30 days prior to such filing. In order to be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus at the time of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or such Prospectus, as applicable, each Holder must no later than 20
Questionnaire
provided
however
 
5
days following notice by the Company of such filing, furnish in writing the completed Questionnaire and such other information that the Company may reasonably request in writing, if any, to the Company and the Company will include the information from the completed Questionnaire and such other information, if any, in the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus, as necessary and in a manner, so that upon effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement the Holder will be permitted to deliver the Prospectus to purchasers of the Holder's Registrable Securities. From and after the date that the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective, upon receipt of a completed Questionnaire and such other information that the Company may reasonably request in writing, if any, the Company will use its reasonable efforts to file any amendments or supplements to the Shelf Registration Statement necessary for such Holder to be named as a selling securityholder in the Prospectus contained therein to permit such Holder to deliver the Prospectus to purchasers of the Holder's Securities (subject to the Company's right to suspend the Shelf Registration Statement as described in Section 2.5 below); that from and after the beginning of the calendar quarter first commencing after the nine-month anniversary of the Closing Date, the Company shall not be required to file an amendment or supplement to add Holders for such purpose on more than one occasion per calendar quarter. Holders that do not deliver a completed written Questionnaire and such other information, as provided for in this Section 2.1(c), will not be named as selling securityholders in the Prospectus. Each Holder named as a selling securityholder in the Prospectus agrees to promptly furnish to the Company in writing all information required to be disclosed in order to make information previously furnished to the Company by the Holder not materially misleading and any other information regarding such Holder and the distribution of such Holder's Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
provided,
     (d) Each Holder agrees that if such Holder wishes to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus it will do so only in accordance with Section 2.1(c) and subject to Section 2.5. Each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement without delivering, or causing to be delivered, a Prospectus to the purchaser thereof and, following termination of the Effectiveness Period, to notify the Company, within ten days of a written request by the Company, of the amount of Registrable Securities sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement and, in the absence of a response within such period, the Company may assume that all of such Holder's Registrable Securities have been so sold.
     (e) The Company agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities that are registered under the Shelf Registration Statement at such time or the consent of the managing underwriters in connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, and each Holder agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Company and any such underwriters, it will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a Free Writing Prospectus required to be filed with the SEC. The Company represents that any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus prepared by it or authorized by it in writing for use by such Holder will not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus and, any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when taken together with the information in the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     The Company agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement if required by the 1933 Act or the rules and regulations thereunder or by the instructions applicable to the registration form
 
6
used by the Company, or to the extent the Company does not reasonably object, as reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers with respect to information relating to such Initial Purchasers or by the Trustee on behalf of the Holders covered by such Shelf Registration Statement with respect to information relating to such Holders, and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its is used or filed with the SEC.
     2.2 . The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2.1. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, agency fees, brokers commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
Expenses
     2.3 . After a Shelf Registration Statement is effective, if the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Shelf Registration Statement will be deemed not to have been effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement may legally resume.
Effectiveness
     2.4 . In the event that (a) a Shelf Registration Statement has not become effective by the Shelf Effectiveness Deadline, (b) after the Shelf Registration Statement has become effective, subject to Section 2.5, the Shelf Registration Statement fails to be effective or usable by the Holders without being succeeded within seven business days by a post-effective amendment or a report filed with the SEC pursuant to the 1934 Act that cures the failure to be effective or usable or (c) the Shelf Registration Statement is unusable by the Holders for any reason, and the number of days for which the Shelf Registration Statement shall not be usable exceeds any Suspension Period permitted by Section 2.5 hereunder (each such event being a ""), additional interest, as liquidated damages (""), will accrue at a rate per annum of 0.25% of the principal amount of the Notes then remaining, payable periodically on June 15 and December 15 each year; that, in no event shall Additional Interest accrue at a rate per annum exceeding 0.25% of the principal amount of the Notes then remaining; that no Additional Interest shall accrue after the second anniversary of the Closing Date; that no Additional Interest shall accrue under clauses (b) and (c) above with respect to any Holder that (x) does not deliver to the Company a completed Questionnaire and such other information that the Company may reasonably request, if any, as provided for in Section 2.1(c), and (y) is not named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will Additional Interest be payable in connection with a Registration Default relating to a failure to register the Common Stock into which the Notes are convertible; for the avoidance of doubt, if none of the Securities are registered then Additional Interest only will be payable in connection with the Registration Default relating to the failure to register the Notes. Upon the cure of all Registration Defaults then continuing, the accrual of Additional Interest will automatically cease and the interest rate borne by the Securities will revert to the original interest rate at such time. Additional Interest shall be computed based on the actual number of days elapsed in each six-month period between payment dates in which the Shelf Registration Statement is not effective or is unusable. Holders who have converted Securities into Common Stock will not be entitled to receive any Additional Interest with respect to such Common Stock or the principal amount of the Notes converted.
Interest
Registration Default
Additional Interest
th
th
provided
provided further
provided further
     The Trustee shall be entitled, but shall not be obligated, on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities, to seek any available remedy for the enforcement of this Agreement, including for the payment of any Additional Interest. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that the sole monetary damages payable for a violation of the terms of this Agreement with respect to which Additional Interest are expressly provided shall be such Additional Interest. Nothing shall preclude a Holder of Registrable Securities from pursuing or obtaining specific performance or equitable relief with regard to this
 
7
Agreement. Each obligation to pay Additional Interest shall be deemed to accrue from and including the day following the Registration Default to but excluding the day on which the Registration Default is cured.
     A Registration Default under clause (a) above shall be cured on the date that the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective. A Registration Default under clauses (b) or (c) above shall be cured on the date an amended Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or the Company otherwise declares the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus useable, as applicable.
     The parties agree that the Additional Interest provided for in this Section 2.4 constitutes a reasonable estimate of the damages that may be incurred by Holders of Registrable Securities and does not constitute a penalty.
     2.5 . Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Company may suspend the use of any Prospectus, without incurring or accruing any obligation to pay Additional Interest pursuant to Section 2.4, for a period not to exceed 90 consecutive calendar days or an aggregate of 120 calendar days in any twelve-month period (each, a ""), if the Company shall have determined in good faith that because of valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including without limitation plans for a registered public offering, an acquisition or other proposed or pending corporate developments and similar events or because of filings with the SEC, it is in the best interests of the Company to suspend such use, and prior to suspending such use the Company provides the Holders with written notice of such suspension, which notice need not specify the nature of the event giving rise to such suspension (and, upon receipt of such notice, each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until the earlier of such Holder is advised in writing that the Prospectus may be used or the 90-day or 120-day limits described above have been reached). Each Holder shall keep confidential any communications received by it from the Company regarding the suspension of the use of the Prospectus (including, without limitation, the fact of the suspension), except as required by applicable law.
Suspension
Suspension Period
     In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the Shelf Registration, the Company shall:
     (a) at a reasonable time prior to filing the Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus (other than amendments and supplements that do nothing more than name Holders and provide information with respect thereto), furnish to Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and UBS as representatives of the Initial Purchasers and one special counsel to the Initial Purchasers copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use its reasonable efforts to address in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as the Initial Purchasers and such special counsel to the Initial Purchasers reasonably shall propose within three (3) Business Days of the delivery of such copies to the Initial Purchasers and counsel to the Initial Purchasers. In addition, if any Holder that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(c) shall so request in writing, a reasonable time prior to filing any such documents, the Company shall furnish to such Holder copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use its reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as such Holder reasonably shall propose within three (3) Business Days of the delivery of such copies to such Holder;
 
8
     (b) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective for the Effectiveness Period, subject to Section 2.5; and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed in compliance with Rule 424 (or any similar provision then in force) under the 1933 Act and use reasonable efforts to comply during the Effectiveness Period with the provisions of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder required to enable the disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution (as provided to the Company in the Questionnaires) by the selling Holders thereof;
     (c) (i) notify each Holder of Registrable Securities of the filing of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement and of when any such Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement has become effective; (ii) during the Effectiveness Period, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities that has provided the Questionnaires and the information required by Section 2.1(c) and to each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or underwriter may reasonably request in writing, including financial statements and schedules and, if such Holder so requests, all exhibits thereto in connection with the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities; and (iii) subject to Section 2.5 and to any notice by the Company in accordance with Section 3(e) of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Sections 3(e)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Securities that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(c) in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in the manner set forth therein;
     (d) use reasonable efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Holders in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement and each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities shall reasonably request in writing, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each such Holder and underwriter to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; , , that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d), or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
provided
however
     (e) notify as promptly as reasonably practicable each Holder of Registrable Securities under a Shelf Registration that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(c) and, if requested by such Holder, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) of any request, following the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement under the 1933 Act, by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Shelf Registration Statement has become effective, (ii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iii) of the occurrence
 
9
(but not the nature of or details concerning) of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement made in such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading, (provided, however, that no notice by the Company shall be required pursuant to this clause (iii) in the event that the Company either promptly files a Prospectus supplement to update the Prospectus or a Form 8-K or other appropriate 1934 Act report that is incorporated by reference into the Shelf Registration Statement, which, in either case, contains the requisite information that results in such Shelf Registration Statement no longer containing any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading), (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and (v) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement would be required by applicable law;
     (f) as promptly as reasonably practicable furnish to Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and UBS as representatives of the Initial Purchasers and one special counsel to the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Holders (i) copies of any comment letters received from the SEC with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement or any documents incorporated therein and (ii) any other request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information with respect to the Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus;
     (g) use reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement at the earliest practicable moment or, if any such order or suspension is made effective during any Suspension Period, at the earliest practicable moment after the Suspension Period;
     (h) upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Sections 3(e)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, use reasonable efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder that has provided the Questionnaire and the other information required by Section 2.1(c) of such determination and to furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
     (i) (i) use reasonable efforts to cause the Indentures to be qualified under the 1939 Act in connection with the registration of the Registrable Securities, (ii) cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indentures as may be required for the Indentures to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the 1939 Act, and (iii) execute, and use reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indentures to be so qualified in a timely manner;
 
10
     (j) subject to Sections 2.1(a) and 2.1(b), enter into such customary agreements (on terms reasonably acceptable to the Company) and take all other customary and appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof, including, but not limited to:
     (i) obtaining opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering the matters set forth in the opinion of counsel to the Company delivered at the Closing Date;
     (ii) obtaining "comfort" letters and updates thereof from the Company's independent certified public accountants (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements are, or are required to be, included in the Shelf Registration Statement) addressed to the underwriters, if any, and use reasonable efforts to have such letter addressed to the selling Holders of Registrable Securities (to the extent consistent with Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72 of the American Institute of Certified Public Accounts), such letters substantially in the form and covering the matters covered in the comfort letter delivered on the Closing Date;
     (iii) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, causing the same to set forth indemnification provisions and procedures substantially equivalent to the indemnification provisions and procedures set forth in Section 4 with respect to the underwriters and all other parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section or, at the request of any underwriters, in the form customarily provided to such underwriters in similar types of transactions; and
     (iv) delivering such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested and as are customarily delivered in similar offerings to the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold and the managing underwriters, if any.
The above paragraph (j) shall be done only in connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities using such Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to an underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder, and as reasonably requested by any of the parties thereto; , , that in no event will an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities be made without the prior written agreement of the Company;
provided
however
     (k) if reasonably requested in connection with a disposition of Registrable Securities, make reasonably available for inspection during normal business hours by representatives of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, any underwriters participating in any disposition pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and any counsel or accountant retained by any of the foregoing, all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company reasonably requested by any such persons, and cause the appropriate officers, directors and designated employees of the Company to make reasonably available for inspection during normal business hours all relevant information reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement, and make such representatives of the Company available for discussion of such documents as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers, in each case as is customary for "due diligence" investigations; such persons shall first agree in writing with the Company that any information that is reasonably designated by the Company as confidential at the time of delivery shall be kept confidential by such persons and shall be used solely for the purposes of exercising
provided that
 
11
rights under this Agreement and such person shall not engage in trading any securities of the Company until such material non-public information becomes properly publicly available, unless (i) disclosure of such information is required by court or administrative order or is necessary to respond to inquires of regulatory authorities, (ii) disclosure of such information is required by law (including any disclosure requirements pursuant to federal securities laws in connection with the filing of any Shelf Registration Statement or the use of any Prospectus referred to in this Agreement upon a customary opinion of counsel for such persons delivered and reasonably satisfactory to the Company), (iii) such information becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure or failure to safeguard by any such person, or (iv) such information becomes available to any such person from a source other than the Company and such source is not bound by a confidentiality agreement or confidentiality obligations or duties; , that, the foregoing inspection and information gathering shall, to the greatest extent possible, be coordinated on behalf of all the Holders and the other parties entitled thereto by special counsel to the Holders;
provided further
The above paragraph (k) shall be done only in connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities using such Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to an underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder, and as reasonably requested by any of the parties thereto; , , that in no event will an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities be made without the prior written agreement of the Company;
provided
however
     (l) use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, or if requested by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any;
     (m) make generally available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, earning statements covering at least 12 months (which need not be audited) satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder; and
     (n) make a reasonable effort to provide such information as is required for any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
     Without limiting the provisions of Section 2.1(c), the Company may (as a condition to such Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing. Each Holder agrees promptly to furnish to the Company in writing all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not misleading, any other information regarding such Holder and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as may be required to be disclosed in the Prospectus or Shelf Registration Statement under applicable law or pursuant to SEC comments and any information otherwise reasonably required by the Company to comply with applicable law or regulations.
     Each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Section 3(e)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Prospectus included in the Shelf Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(h) or written notice from the Company that the Shelf Registration Statement is again effective and no amendment or supplement is needed, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies in such
 
12
Holder's possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities at the time of receipt of such notice.
     If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the underwriter or underwriters and manager or managers that will manage such offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be acceptable to the Company. No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
     (a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, each Holder who provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(c), each Underwriter and each of their respective directors, officers and employees and agents and each Person, if any, who controls such Initial Purchaser, Holder or Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act (each of the foregoing is referred to herein as an "indemnified party") (i) against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such indemnified party may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon (x) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto), including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (y) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (z) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus prepared by it or authorized by it in writing for use by such Holder (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; (subject to Section 4(e) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and (iii) against any and all reasonable out-of-pocket expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) or (ii) above; and to reimburse each indemnified party for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the indemnified parties) as such expenses are
Indemnification by the Company
provided that
 
13
reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any indemnified party expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 4(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
provided
however
     (b) . Each Holder who has provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(c), severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each Initial Purchaser, each Underwriter and the other selling Holders who have provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(c), and each of their respective directors, officers, employees and agents and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, any Initial Purchaser, any Underwriter or any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a), as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
Indemnification by the Holders
     (c) . Each Initial Purchaser, severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Holders who have provided the Questionnaire and the other information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(c), and each of their respective directors, officers, employees and agents, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company or any such Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a), as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
Indemnification by the Initial Purchasers
     (d) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 4 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 4, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party (1) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
 
14
(a), (b) or (c) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (2) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; , , if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 4 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than local counsel), reasonably approved by the indemnifying party, representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
provided
however
     (e) . The indemnifying party under this Section 4 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, which shall not be withheld unreasonably, but if settled with such consent or if there is a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 4(d) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 45 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (x) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (y) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements
 
15
     (f) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 4 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
     The relative fault of the indemnifying parties on the one hand and the indemnified parties and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, or by the Holders or the Initial Purchasers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     The Company, the Holders and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 4. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 4 shall be deemed to include any reasonable out-of-pocket legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 4, no Initial Purchaser or Holder shall be required to indemnify or contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities sold by such Initial Purchaser or Holder exceeds the amount of any damages which such Initial Purchaser or Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
     No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
     For purposes of this Section 4, each director, officer, employee and agent of any Initial Purchaser or Holder, or each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser or Holder, and each director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
     5.1 . The Company has not entered into and the Company will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement with respect to its securities which conflicts with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not for the term of this Agreement conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
 
16
     5.2 . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders; that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser against which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent is to be effective; , , that no amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent with respect to Sections 2.4 and 4 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registered Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder; and , , that the provisions of this Section 5.2 may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Initial Purchasers and each Holder, except that any provision of this Section 5.2 which provides that an amendment to this Agreement may be made upon the written consent of the Majority Holders may itself be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from any such provision may be given if the Company obtains the written consent of the Majority Holders. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing provisos), (i) a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Registrable Securities are being sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of the Registrable Securities being sold rather than registered under such Shelf Registration Statement and (ii) this Agreement may be amended by a written agreement between the Company and Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and UBS, on behalf of the Initial Purchasers, without the consent of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, in order to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein, provided that no such amendment shall adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Registrable Securities. Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any amendment, modification, waiver or consent pursuant to this Section 5.2, shall be bound by such amendment, modification, waiver or consent, whether or not any notice or writing indicating such amendment, modification, waiver or consent is delivered to such Holder.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
provided
further
provided
further
     5.3 . All notices, consents and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, registered first-class mail, facsimile, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (a) if to a Holder, in the manner set forth in Section 12.03(b) of the applicable Indenture; and (b) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Purchase Agreement, and thereafter at such other address of which notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3.
Notices
     All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; two business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if sent by facsimile; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an overnight courier.
     Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications to any Holder shall be deemed to have been duly given, if such notice has been duly given to the Trustee under the Indentures, at the address specified in such Indentures.
     5.4 . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; , nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indentures. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities
Successor and Assigns
provided that
 
17
such person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
     5.5 . Each Initial Purchaser (even if such Initial Purchaser is not a Holder of Registrable Securities) shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of Holders hereunder. Each Holder of Registrable Securities shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries
     5.6 . Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 2.1 may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it may not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, any Initial Purchaser or any Holder may seek such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Sections 2.1.
Specific Enforcement
     5.7 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
     5.8 . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
     5.9 . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
     5.10 . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
     5.11 . This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
 
18
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
Confirmed and accepted as of the date      first above written:
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED UBS SECURITIES LLC
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED
UBS SECURITIES LLC
For themselves and on behalf of the other Initial Purchasers

 
Exhibit 10.01
June 12, 2006
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated UBS Securities LLC As Representatives of the Initial Purchasers c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Symantec Corporationa corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes to sell to the several parties named in Schedule I hereto (the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 and 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (collectively, the "Notes"), of the Company (such Notes to be sold by the Company, collectively, the "Firm Securities") in the principal amounts identified on Schedule 1 hereto. The Company also proposes to grant to the Initial Purchasers an option to purchase up to an additional principal amount of securities set forth in Schedule 1 to cover over-allotments, if any (the "Option Securities" and, together with the Firm Securities, the "Securities"). The Securities are convertible into shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Company at the initial conversion rates set forth in the Final Memorandum (as defined below). The Securities are to be issued under separate indentures (collectively, the "Indentures"), each dated as of June 16, 2006, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee ("Trustee"). The Securities will have the benefit of a registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") to be dated as of the Closing Date (as defined below), between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, pursuant to which the Company will agree to register the Securities under the Act subject to the terms and conditions therein specified. To the extent there are no additional parties listed on Schedule I other than you, the term Representatives as used herein shall mean you as the Initial Purchasers, and the terms Representatives and Initial Purchasers shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires. The use of the neuter in this Agreement shall include the feminine and masculine wherever appropriate. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 22 hereof.
,
 
          The sale of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers will be made without registration of the Securities under the Act in reliance upon exemptions from the registration requirements of the Act.
          In connection with the sale of the Securities, the Company has prepared a preliminary offering memorandum, dated June 12, 2006 (as amended or supplemented at the date thereof, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein, the "Preliminary Memorandum"), and a final offering memorandum, dated June 12, 2006 (as amended or supplemented at the Execution Time, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein, the "Final Memorandum"). Each of the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum sets forth certain information concerning the Company and the Securities. The Company hereby confirms that it has authorized the use of the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, and any amendment or supplement thereto, in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers. Unless stated to the contrary, any references herein to the terms "amend", "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include any information filed under the Exchange Act subsequent to the Execution Time that is incorporated by reference therein.
          1. .
Representations and Warranties
          (a) The Company represents and warrants to and agrees with each Initial Purchaser as set forth below in this Section 1.
     (i) Each document filed or to be filed pursuant to the Exchange Act and incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum complied or will comply when so filed in all material respects with the Exchange Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder. The Preliminary Memorandum, at the date thereof, did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Final Memorandum did not at the Execution Time, and will not on the Closing Date (and, if the Option Securities are purchased, on the settlement date for the Option Securities), (and any amendment or supplement thereto will not at the date thereof, on the Closing Date and on the settlement date for the Option Securities, if any) contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; , , that the Company makes no representation or warranty as to the information contained in or omitted from the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, or any amendment or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
provided
however
 
     (ii) The Disclosure Package did not, as of the Execution Time, and at all times through the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
     (iii) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf has, directly or indirectly, made offers or sales of any security, or solicited offers to buy, any security under circumstances that would require the registration of the Securities or the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof under the Act.
     (iv) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to whom the Company makes no representation or warranty) has engaged in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in connection with any offer or sale of the Securities.
     (v) The Securities satisfy the eligibility requirements of Rule 144A(d)(3) under the Act.
     (vi) Subject to the accuracy of the Initial Purchasers' representations and warranties set forth in Section 4 hereof and compliance by the Initial Purchasers with agreements set forth in Section 4 hereof, no registration under the Act of the Securities is required for the offer and sale of the Securities to or by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated herein and in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum.
     (vii) The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offer and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum will not be, required to register as an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act, without taking account of any exemption arising out of the number of holders of the Company's securities.
     (viii) The Company is subject to and in full compliance with the reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
     (ix) Reserved.
     (x) The Company has not paid or agreed to pay to any person any compensation for soliciting another to purchase the Securities (except as contemplated in this Agreement).
 
     (xi) The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that has constituted or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
     (xii) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware with full corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and to operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, and is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction that requires such qualification, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to be in good standing, have such corporate power or authority, or to so qualify would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"); and each of the significant subsidiaries (as identified in paragraph (xxxviii) below) has been duly incorporated or formed and is validly existing as a corporation or limited liability company in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is chartered, organized or formed, except where the failure to be so organized, qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (xiii) All the outstanding shares of capital stock of each significant subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable, and, except as otherwise set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, all outstanding shares of capital stock of the significant subsidiaries are owned by the Company either directly or through wholly owned subsidiaries (except for nominal shares held by other shareholders as required in certain jurisdictions) free and clear of any security interest, claim, lien or encumbrance (other than intercompany security interests, claims, liens and encumbrances).
     (xiv) The Company's authorized capitalization is as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum; the capital stock of the Company conforms to the description thereof contained in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum; the outstanding shares of Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable; the shares of Common Stock initially issuable upon conversion of the Securities have been duly authorized and, when issued upon conversion of the Securities, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable; the Board of Directors of the Company has duly and validly adopted resolutions reserving such shares of Common Stock for issuance upon conversion of the Securities; and the holders of outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company are not entitled to preemptive
 
or other rights to subscribe for the Securities or to subscribe for the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof; and, except as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, no options, warrants or other rights to purchase, agreements or other obligations to issue, or rights to convert any obligations into or exchange any securities for, shares of capital stock of or ownership interests in the Company are outstanding.
     (xv) The statements in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum under the headings "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations""Certain ERISA Considerations", "Description of Notes", "Registration Rights" and "Description of Capital Stock" fairly summarize the matters therein described in all material respects.
,
     (xvi) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
     (xvii) No consent, approval, authorization, filing with or order of any court or governmental agency or body is required in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated herein or in either Indenture, the Securities or the Registration Rights Agreement, except (A) the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, (B) such as may be required under the blue sky laws of any jurisdiction in which the Securities are offered and sold and (C) in the case of the Registration Rights Agreement, such as will be obtained under the Act.
     (xviii) None of the execution and delivery of this Agreement, either Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement, the issuance and sale of the Securities, or the consummation of any other of the transactions herein or therein contemplated, or the fulfillment of the terms hereof or thereof will conflict with, result in a breach or violation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries pursuant to, (A) the charter or by-laws or comparable constituting documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries; (B) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries is a party or bound or to which its or their property is subject; or (C) any law or statute, or any rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except, in the case of clause (B) above, for any such conflict, breach or violation as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (xix) the Indentures have been duly authorized and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee, when executed and delivered by the Company, will constitute legal, valid and binding instruments
 
enforceable against the Company in accordance with their respective terms (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and the Securities will be convertible into Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the applicable Indenture;
     (xx) the Securities have been duly authorized and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the terms of the applicable Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Initial Purchasers pursuant to this Agreement, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
     (xxi) the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers, when executed and delivered will constitute the legal, valid, binding and enforceable instrument of the Company (subject to (A) limitations on the rights to indemnification and contribution as may be imposed under applicable law, and (B) as to the enforcement of remedies, applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
     (xxii) The consolidated historical financial statements and schedule of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum present fairly in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of the dates and for the periods indicated, comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of Regulation S-X and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved (except as otherwise noted therein); to the extent that the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum contain any non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in Regulation S-K under the Securities Act) such measures have been provided in compliance with Regulation G and, as applicable, Item 10 of Regulation S-K (assuming such Regulations were applicable to the offering contemplated hereby).
 
     (xxiii) No action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries or its or their property is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened in writing that (A) could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the performance of this Agreement, the Indentures or the Registration Rights Agreement or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or (B) if the subject of a reasonably possible unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
     (xxiv) Reserved.
     (xxv) Neither the Company nor any of its significant subsidiaries is in violation or default of (A) any provision of its charter or bylaws or comparable constituting documents; (B) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which it is a party or bound or to which its property is subject; or (C) any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or such significant subsidiary or any of its properties, as applicable, except, in the case of each of clauses (B) and (C) above, for any such violation or default as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (xxvi) KPMG LLP, who have delivered their reports with respect to the audited consolidated financial statements and schedule, and with respect to management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, is an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company within the meaning of the Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder adopted by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
     (xxvii) There are no stamp or other issuance or transfer taxes or duties or other similar fees or charges required to be paid in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the issuance or sale of the Securities.
     (xxviii) The Company has filed all applicable tax returns that are required to be filed or has requested extensions thereof (except in any case in which the failure so to file would not have a Material Adverse Effect and except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto)) and has paid all taxes required to be paid by it and any other assessment, fine or penalty levied against
 
it, to the extent that any of the foregoing is due and payable, except for any such assessment, fine or penalty that is currently being contested in good faith or as would not have a Material Adverse Effect and except as set forth in or contemplated in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
     (xxix) No labor problem or dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries exists or is threatened or imminent, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its significant subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers, except, in any case, as would not have a Material Adverse Effect and except as set forth in or contemplated in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
     (xxx) To the extent not self-insured, the Company and each of its subsidiaries are insured by insurers of recognized financial responsibility against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are prudent and customary in the businesses in which they are engaged; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect except as set forth in or contemplated in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto); to the extent the Company or any of its subsidiaries is self-insured, such entity is self-insured against losses in a manner such entity believes is commercially reasonable.
     (xxxi) No subsidiary of the Company is currently prohibited, directly or indirectly, from paying any dividends to the Company, from making any other distribution on such subsidiary's capital stock, from repaying to the Company any loans or advances to such subsidiary from the Company or from transferring any of such subsidiary's property or assets to the Company, or any other subsidiary of the Company, as the case may be, except as described in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
     (xxxii) Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries own, possess, license or have other rights to use on reasonable terms, all patents, trade and service marks, trade names, copyrights, domain names (in each case including all registrations and applications to register same), inventions, trade secrets, technology, know-how, and other intellectual property, (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") necessary for the conduct of the Company's business as now conducted or as proposed in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum to be conducted. Except as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure
 
Package and the Final Memorandum and except in each case as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, (A) the Company owns, or has rights to use under license, all such Intellectual Property free and clear in all material respects of all adverse claims, liens or other encumbrances; (B) to the knowledge of the Company, there is no material infringement by third parties of any such Intellectual Property; (C) there is no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by any third party challenging the Company's or its subsidiaries' rights in or to any such Intellectual Property, and the Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; (D) there is no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by any third party challenging the validity, scope or enforceability of any such Intellectual Property, and the Company is unaware of any facts that would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; (E) there is no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by any third party that the Company or any subsidiary infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of any third party, and the Company is unaware of any other fact which would form a reasonable basis for a claim of such infringement or violation; and (F) to the knowledge of the Company, there is no valid and subsisting patent or published patent application that would preclude the Company, in any material respect, from practicing any such Intellectual Property.
     (xxxiii) The statements contained in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum under the captions Risk Factors  Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products," "Risk Factors  If we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed," "Risk Factors  Some of our products contain "open source" software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business," "Risk Factors  Our software products and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales" and "Business  Intellectual Property", insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents, or proceedings discussed therein, are materially accurate and fair summaries of such legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings.
     (xxxiv) Except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto) and except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries possess all licenses, certificates, permits and other authorizations issued by all applicable regulatory authorities necessary to conduct their respective businesses, and (subject to the foregoing exceptions) the Company and each of its subsidiaries has not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such certificate, authorization or permit.
 
     (xxxv) The Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and to maintain asset accountability; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. Except for the disclosures contained in Item 9A of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, the internal controls over financial reporting described above are effective and the Company is not aware of any material weakness in such internal controls over financial reporting.
     (xxxvi) The Company maintains "disclosure controls and procedures" (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms.
     (xxxvii) The Company and its subsidiaries are (A) in compliance with any and all applicable laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants ("Environmental Laws"); (B) have received and are in compliance with all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses; and (C) have not received notice of any actual or potential liability under any Environmental Law, except where such non-compliance with Environmental Laws, failure to receive required permits, licenses or other approvals, or liability would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
     (xxxviii) The subsidiaries listed on Annex A attached hereto are the only "significant subsidiaries" of the Company (as defined in Rule l-02 of Regulation S-X). References herein to "significant subsidiaries" are to the subsidiaries so listed. All other subsidiaries of the Company, when taken together, do not represent a "significant subsidiary" as so defined (except that, for this purpose only, "30 percent" shall be substituted for all references to "10 percent" in such definition).
     (xxxix) The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar
 
rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
     (xl) None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or Affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering of the Securities hereunder, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
     (xli) There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 relating to loans and Sections 302 and 906 relating to certifications.
     (xlii) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or Affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "FCPA"), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA; and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its Affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
     (xliii) Reserved.
Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to each Initial Purchaser.
 
          2. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Initial Purchaser, and each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the purchase price set forth in Schedule I hereto, the principal amount of Firm Securities set forth opposite such Initial Purchaser's name in Schedule I hereto.
Purchase and Sale
          (b) Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the several Initial Purchasers to purchase, severally and not jointly, the principal amount of Option Securities set forth on Schedule I hereto at the same purchase price set forth in Schedule I hereto for the Firm Securities. The option may be exercised in whole or in part, solely to cover over-allotments, at any time on or before the 30th day after the date of the Final Memorandum upon written or telefaxed notice by the Representatives to the Company setting forth the number of Option Securities as to which the several Initial Purchasers are exercising the option and the settlement date therefor. The number of Option Securities to be purchased by each Initial Purchaser shall be the same percentage of the total number of Option Securities to be purchased by the several Initial Purchasers as such Initial Purchaser is purchasing of the Firm Securities, subject to such adjustments as you in your absolute discretion shall make to eliminate any fractional Securities.
          3. . (a) Delivery of and payment for the Firm Securities and the Option Securities (if the option provided for in Section 2(b) hereof shall have been exercised on or before the first Business Day immediately preceding the Closing Date) shall be made at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on June 16, 2006, or at such time on such later date not more than one Business Day after the foregoing date as the Representatives shall designate, which date and time may be postponed by agreement among the Representatives and the Company or as provided in Section 9 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Initial Purchasers against payment by the several Initial Purchasers through the Representatives of the purchase prices of the Securities being sold by the Company to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to the accounts specified by the Company. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct.
Delivery and Payment
          (b) If the option provided for in Section 2(b) hereof is exercised after the first Business Day immediately preceding the Closing Date, the Company will deliver the Option Securities (at the expense of the Company) to the Representatives on the date specified by the Representatives (which shall be within three Business Days after exercise of said option) for the respective accounts of the several Initial Purchasers, against payment by the several Initial Purchasers through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to the accounts specified by the Company. If settlement for the Option Securities occurs after the Closing Date, the Company will deliver to the Representatives on the settlement date for the Option Securities, and the obligation of the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Option Securities shall be conditioned upon receipt of, supplemental opinions, certificates and letters confirming as of such date the opinions, certificates and letters delivered on the Closing Date pursuant to Section 6 hereof.
 
          4. . (a) Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges that the Securities have not been and will not be registered under the Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Act.
Offering by Initial Purchasers
          (b) Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and warrants to and agrees with the Company that:
     (i) it has not offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, any Securities within the United States as part of their distribution at any time except to those it reasonably believes to be "qualified institutional buyers" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Act) and in the manner contemplated in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum;
     (ii) it has not offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, any Securities outside the United States as part of their distribution at any time except in the manner contemplated in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum;
     (iii) neither it nor any person acting on its behalf has made or will make offers or sales of the Securities in the United States by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in the United States;
     (iv) in connection with each sale pursuant to Section 4(b)(i), it has taken or will take reasonable steps to ensure that the purchaser of such Securities is aware that such sale is being made in reliance on Rule 144A;
     (v) it is an "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D); and
     (vi) without the prior written consent of the Company, it has not given and will not give to any prospective purchaser of the Securities any written information concerning the offering of the Securities ("Written Information") other than materials contained in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum or any other offering materials prepared by or with the prior written consent of the Company; provided that the prior written consent of the Company shall be deemed to have been given in respect of (x) preliminary and final term sheets relating to the offer and sale of the Securities containing customary terms and (y) material relating to the offer and sale of the Securities prepared by the Initial Purchasers that does not contain information provided by or on behalf of the Company specifically for use in such material.
          5. .
Agreements
          (a) The Company agrees with each Initial Purchaser that:
 
     (i) The Company will furnish to each Initial Purchaser and to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, without charge, during the period until the completion of the sale of the Securities (as determined by the Representatives), as many copies of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and any amendments and supplements thereto as such Initial Purchaser may reasonably request.
     (ii) The Company will not amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum other than by filing documents under the Exchange Act that are incorporated by reference therein, without the prior written consent of the Representatives; provided, however, that prior to the completion of the distribution of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers (as determined by the Representatives), the Company will not file any document under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum unless, prior to such proposed filing, the Company has furnished the Representatives with a copy of such document for their review and the Representatives have not reasonably objected to the filing of such document. The Company will promptly advise the Representatives when any document filed under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum shall have been filed with the Commission.
     (iii) If at any time prior to the completion of the sale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers (as determined by the Representatives), any event occurs as a result of which the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum, as then amended or supplemented, would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, or if it should be necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum to comply with applicable law, the Company will promptly (A) notify the Representatives of any such event; (B) subject to the requirements of Section 5(a)(ii), prepare an amendment or supplement that will correct such statement or omission or effect such compliance; and (C) supply any supplemented or amended Disclosure Package or Final Memorandum to the several Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Initial Purchasers without charge in such quantities as they may reasonably request.
     (iv) Without the prior written consent of the Representatives, the Company has not given and will not give to any prospective purchaser of the Securities any Written Information other than materials contained in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum or any other offering materials prepared by or with the prior written consent of the Representatives.
     (v) The Company will arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities for sale by the Initial Purchasers under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may reasonably designate and will maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the sale of the Securities; that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business or as a
provided
 
dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it is not now so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising solely out of the offer or sale of the Securities, in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign corporation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not now so subject. The Company will promptly advise the Representatives of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose.
     (vi) During the period of two years after the last Closing Date, the Company will not, and will not permit any of its Affiliates to, resell any Securities or shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof, which, in either case, constitute "restricted securities" under Rule 144 of the Act, that have been acquired by any of them.
     (vii) The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf, to directly or indirectly make offers or sales of any security, or solicit offers to buy any security, under circumstances that would require the registration of the Securities or Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof under the Act.
     (viii) The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf, to engage in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in connection with any offer or sale of the Securities in the United States.
     (ix) So long as any of the Securities are "restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Act, the Company will, during any period in which it is not subject to and in compliance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, provide to each holder of such restricted securities and to each prospective purchaser (as designated by such holder) of such restricted securities, upon the request of such holder or prospective purchaser, any information required to be provided by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Act. This covenant is intended to be for the benefit of the holders, and the prospective purchasers designated by such holders, from time to time of such restricted securities.
     (x) The Company will cooperate with the Representatives and use its best efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company
.
     (xi) The Company will not for a period of 90 days following the Execution Time, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, directly or indirectly, offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, otherwise dispose of, enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition (whether by actual disposition or effective economic disposition due to cash settlement or otherwise) by the Company or any Affiliate of the
 
Company or any person in privity with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company of, file (or participate in the filing of) a registration statement with the Commission in respect of, or establish or increase a put equivalent position or liquidate or decrease a call equivalent position within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of, any shares of capital stock of the Company or any securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, shares of capital stock of the Company (other than the Securities), or publicly announce an intention to effect any such transaction; , , that (A) the Company may issue and sell Common Stock pursuant to any employee stock option plan, stock ownership plan or dividend reinvestment plan of the Company described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and in effect at the Execution Time, (B) the Company may issue Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of securities or the exercise of warrants outstanding at the Execution Time and described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, (C) the Company may issue Common Stock as consideration in connection with acquisitions (and enter into agreements with respect thereto), provided that the recipients of any such shares that are actually issued during the duration of the 90-day period referred to above shall agree to be bound by the restrictions of this Section 5(a)(xi) for the duration of such period.
provided
however
     (xii) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to, or that has constituted or that might reasonably be expected to, cause or result, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
     (xiii) The Company will, for a period of twelve months following the Execution Time, furnish to the Representatives all reports or other communications (financial or other) generally made available to its stockholders, and deliver such reports and communications to the Representatives as soon as they are available, unless such documents are furnished or filed with the Commission or any securities exchange on which any class of securities of the Company is listed and generally made available to the public.
     (xiv) The Company will comply in all material respects with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
     (xv) The Company will reserve and keep available at all times, free of pre-emptive rights, the full number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities.
 
     (xvi) From and after the Closing Date, the Company shall not take any action that would cause the conversion rate to be subject to the limitation set forth in Section 10.15(f) of the applicable Indenture.
     (xvii) Between the date hereof and the Closing Date, the Company will not do or authorize any act or thing that would result in an adjustment of the conversion rate.
     (xviii) The Company has not sold, and will not offer or sell, any Securities outside the United States at any time except in the manner contemplated in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum.
          (b) The Company agrees to pay the costs and expenses relating to the following matters: (i) the preparation of the Indentures and the Registration Rights Agreement and the preparation, printing or reproduction of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and each amendment or supplement to either of them; (ii) the printing (or reproduction) and delivery (including postage, air freight charges and charges for counting and packaging) of such copies of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, and all amendments or supplements to either of them, as may, in each case, be reasonably requested for use in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities; (iii) the issuance and delivery of the Securities; (iv) any stamp or transfer taxes in connection with the original issuance and sale of the Securities; (v) the printing (or reproduction) and delivery of this Agreement, any blue sky memorandum and all other agreements or documents printed (or reproduced) and delivered in connection with the offering of the Securities; (vi) any registration or qualification of the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or blue sky laws of the several states (including filing fees and the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Initial Purchasers relating to such registration and qualification); (vii) admitting the Securities for trading in the PORTAL Market; (viii) the transportation and other expenses incurred by or on behalf of Company representatives in connection with presentations to prospective purchasers of the Securities; (ix) the fees and expenses of the Company's accountants and the fees and expenses of counsel (including local and special counsel) for the Company; and (x) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder.
          6. . The obligations of the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Firm Securities and the Option Securities, as the case may be, shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein at the Execution Time, the Closing Date and any settlement date pursuant to Section 3 hereof, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Initial Purchasers
          (a) The Company shall have requested and caused Fenwick & West LLP, counsel for the Company, to furnish to the Representatives its opinion, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Representatives, to the effect that:
 
     (i) the Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with full corporate power and corporate authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and to operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, and is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction which requires such qualification, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to be in good standing, have such corporate power or authority, or to so qualify would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (ii) Reserved;
     (iii) the Company's authorized equity capitalization is as set forth in the Final Memorandum under the heading "Capitalization" and the capital stock of the Company conforms to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum; the Securities conform to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum; the shares of Common Stock initially issuable upon conversion of the Securities have been duly authorized and, when issued upon conversion of the Securities, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable; the Board of Directors of the Company has duly and validly adopted resolutions reserving such shares of Common Stock for issuance upon conversion of the Securities in accordance with the terms of the applicable Indenture; and the holders of outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company are not entitled to any preemptive rights to subscribe for the Securities or for the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities;
     (iv) the Indentures have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, and constitute legal, valid and binding instruments enforceable against the Company in accordance with their respective terms (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and the Securities will be convertible into Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the applicable Indenture;
     (v) the Securities have been duly authorized and executed by the Company and, when authenticated in accordance with the terms of the applicable Indenture and delivered against payment therefor pursuant to this Agreement, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the applicable Indenture (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality,
 
reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
     (vi) the statements set forth under the headings "Description of Notes". "Registration Rights", "Description of Capital Stock" and "Certain U.S. Federal Tax Considerations" in the Final Memorandum, insofar as such statements purport to summarize certain provisions of the Securities, the Indentures, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Common Stock, or matters of applicable tax law and regulations, provide in all material respects an accurate and fair summary of such provisions, laws and regulations;
     (vii) the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes the legal, valid, binding and enforceable instrument of the Company (subject to (A) limitations on the rights to indemnification and contribution as may be imposed under applicable law, and (B) as to the enforcement of remedies, applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
     (viii) the execution and delivery of each of this Agreement, either Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement, the issuance and sale of the Securities, and the consummation of any other of the transactions herein or therein provided, and the fulfillment of the terms hereof or thereof, including the issuance of the Common Stock upon conversion of the Securities, do not (A) result in a breach of any agreement or instrument filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 (such list of agreements and instruments having been represented to such counsel by the Company as a list of all material agreements or instruments to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or is bound that would be required to be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 601(b)(10) if such Annual Report on Form 10-K were filed as of the Closing Date); (B) result in violation of the charter or by-laws of the Company; or (C) result in the violation of any law or statute or any rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree known to such counsel specifically naming the Company as being bound of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its respective properties (provided that such counsel shall be entitled to limit their opinion to laws that, in the experience of such counsel, customarily apply to similar transactions);
     (ix) Reserved;
     (x) Reserved;
 
     (xi) Reserved;
     (xii) this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company;
     (xiii) no consent, approval, authorization, filing with or order of any court or governmental agency or body is required to be obtained or made by the Company for the Company to execute, deliver or perform, as of the Closing Date, each of this Agreement, the Indentures and the Registration Rights Agreement, for the Company to issue or sell the Securities at the Closing and to comply with the terms of thereof and to consummate the transactions provided for in such documents, except (A) the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, (B) such as may be required under the blue sky or securities laws of any jurisdiction in which the Securities are offered or sold, and (C) in the case of the Registration Rights Agreement, such as will be made or obtained under the Act;
     (xiv) assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties and compliance with the agreements contained herein (without regard to the representations found in Section 1(a)(vi)), the sale and delivery of the Securities by the Company to the Initial Purchasers or the offer and sale by the Initial Purchasers of the Securities in the manner provided for herein and in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum will be exempt from the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Act; prior to the effectiveness of any registration statement prepared pursuant to the Company's obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Indentures are not required to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
     (xv) the Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, will not be required to register as an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act, without taking account of any exemption arising out of the number of holders of the Company's securities.
In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact, to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials. In addition to the matters set forth above, such opinion shall also include a statement to the effect that such counsel has no reason to believe that (i) the Disclosure Package (but not including any electronic "road shows"), as amended or supplemented at the Execution Time, at the Execution Time contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (in each case, other than the financial statements, schedule and other financial information contained therein and statistical data derived therefrom, as to which such counsel need express no opinion), and (ii) the Final Memorandum at the Execution Time or on the Closing Date the Final Memorandum contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (in each
 
case, other than the financial statements, schedule and other financial information contained therein and statistical data derived therefrom, as to which such counsel need express no opinion). References to the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum in this Section 6(a) include any amendment or supplement thereto at the Closing Date. In addition to the foregoing, the opinion of such counsel shall include a statement to the effect that, to such counsel's knowledge and other than as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, there is no pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or its or their property that, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect and, to such counsel's knowledge, the description of current legal proceedings in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum is an accurate summary in all material respects of the legal proceedings described therein (provided that such counsel shall express no view as to any disclosure regarding the adequacy or amount of any accruals or charges).
          (b) The Representatives shall have received from Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Representatives, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Indenture, the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum (as amended or supplemented at the Closing Date) and other related matters as the Representatives may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
          (c) The Company shall have furnished to the Representatives a certificate of the Company, signed by (x) the Chairman of the Board or the President and (y) the principal financial or accounting officer of the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have carefully examined the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and any supplements or amendments thereto, and this Agreement and that:
     (i) the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on the Closing Date, and the Company has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; and
     (ii) since the date of the most recent financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
          (d) At the Execution Time and at the Closing Datethe Company shall have requested and caused KPMG LLP to furnish to the Representatives letters, dated respectively as of the Execution Time and as of the Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the
,
 
Representatives and confirming that they are independent accountants within the meaning of the Exchange Act and the applicable published rules and regulations thereunder and stating in effect that:
     (i) in their opinion, the audited financial statements and financial statement schedule included or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum and reported on by them comply as to form with the applicable accounting requirements of Regulation S-X
;
     (ii) on the basis of carrying out certain specified procedures (but not an examination in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards) which would not necessarily reveal matters of significance with respect to the comments set forth in such letter; a reading of the minutes of the meetings of the shareholders, directors and audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of the Company and the subsidiaries; a review of the available monthly financial information of the Company for each monthly period subsequent to March 31, 2006; and inquiries of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters of the Company and its subsidiaries as to transactions and events subsequent to March 31, 2006nothing came to their attention which caused them to believe that with respect to the period subsequent to March 31, 2006, there were any changes, at a specified date not more than five days prior to the date of the letter, in the long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries or capital stock of the Company or decreases in the stockholders' equity or consolidated net current assets of the Company as compared with the amounts shown on the March 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet included or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, or for the period from April 1, 2006 to such specified date there were any decreases, as compared with the corresponding period in the preceding year, in net revenues or income before income taxes or in total or per share amounts of net income of the Company and its subsidiaries, except in all instances for changes or decreases set forth in such letter, in which case the letter shall be accompanied by an explanation by the Company as to the significance thereof unless said explanation is not deemed necessary by the Representatives; and
,
     (iii) they have performed certain other specified procedures as a result of which they determined that certain information of an accounting, financial or statistical nature (which is limited to accounting, financial or statistical information derived from the general accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries) set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, agrees with the accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries, excluding any questions of legal interpretation
.
          All references in this Section 6(e) to the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum include any amendment or supplement thereto at the date of the applicable letter.
 
          (e) Subsequent to the Execution Time or, if earlier, the dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto) and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), there shall not have been (i) any change or decrease specified in the letter or letters referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section 6; or (ii) any change, or any development involving a prospective change, in or affecting the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), the effect of which, in any case referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above, is, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
          (f) Subsequent to the Execution Time, there shall not have been any decrease in the rating of any of the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the Act) or any notice given of any intended or potential decrease in any such rating or of a possible change in any such rating that does not indicate the direction of the possible change.
          (g) At or prior to the Execution Time, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives a letter substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto from Messrs. Thompson, Beers and Courville addressed to the Representatives.
          (h) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives such further information, certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request.
          (i) The Securities shall have been designated as PORTAL-eligible securities in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD and the Securities shall be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company.
          (j) The Common Stock shall be listed and admitted to trading on the Nasdaq National Market and the Company shall have filed with the Nasdaq National Market a listing of additional shares notification form with respect to the sale of the Securities.
          (k) At or prior to the Closing Date, the Company and the Trustee shall have executed and delivered the Indenture, and the Company and the Initial Purchasers shall have executed and delivered the Registration Rights Agreement.
          If any of the conditions specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled when and as provided in this Agreement, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, this Agreement and all obligations of the Initial Purchasers hereunder may be cancelled at, or at any time prior to, the Closing Date by the Representatives. Notice of such cancellation shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
 
          The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 will be delivered at the office of counsel for the Initial Purchasers, at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, 2550 Hanover Street, Palo Alto, CA 94304, on the Closing Date.
          7. . If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 6 hereof is not satisfied, because of any termination pursuant to Section 10 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Initial Purchasers, the Company will reimburse the Initial Purchasers severally through the Representatives on demand for all expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities.
Reimbursement of Expenses
          8. . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, the directors, officers, employees, Affiliates and agents of each Initial Purchaser and each person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other U.S. federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities or actions in respect thereof arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Preliminary Memorandum, the Final Memorandum, any Issuer Written Information or any other written information used by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities, or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification and Contribution
provided
however
          (b) Each Initial Purchaser severally, and not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity to each Initial Purchaser, but only with reference to written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, or in any amendment or supplement thereto. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that any Initial Purchaser may otherwise have. The Company acknowledges and the Representatives agree on behalf of all Initial Purchasers that (i) the
 
statements set forth in the last paragraph of the cover page regarding delivery of the Securities and (ii), under the heading "Plan of Distribution", (A) the third and fourth sentences in the first paragraph under the subheading "New Issues of Notes," (B) the first and second full paragraphs under the subheading "Price Stabilization and Short Positions," and (C) the first full paragraph under the subheading "Electronic Distribution" in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers for inclusion in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto.
          (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel, other than local counsel if not appointed by the indemnifying party, retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , , that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
provided
however
          (d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 8 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company and the Initial Purchasers severally agree to contribute to the aggregate losses,
 
claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending any loss claim, damage, liability or action) (collectively "Losses") to which the Company and one or more of the Initial Purchasers may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and by the Initial Purchasers on the other from the offering of the Securities; , , that in no case shall any Initial Purchaser be responsible for any amount in excess of the purchase discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Initial Purchaser hereunder. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company and the Initial Purchasers severally shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by it, and benefits received by the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total purchase discounts and commissions. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the Company on one hand or the Initial Purchasers on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 8, each person who controls an Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee, Affiliate and agent of an Initial Purchaser shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each officer and director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
provided
however
          9. . If any one or more Initial Purchasers shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Initial Purchaser hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Initial Purchasers shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the number of Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule I hereto bears to the aggregate number of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Initial Purchasers) the Securities which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase; , , that in the event that the aggregate number of Securities which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate number of Securities set forth in Schedule I hereto, the remaining Initial Purchasers shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Initial Purchasers do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Initial Purchaser or the Company. In the event of a default
Default by an Initial Purchaser
provided
however
 
by any Initial Purchaser as set forth in this Section 9, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the Representatives shall determine in order that the required changes in the Final Memorandum or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Initial Purchaser of its liability, if any, to the Company or any nondefaulting Initial Purchaser for damages occasioned by its default hereunder.
          10. . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of, and payment for, the Securities, if at any time prior to such delivery and payment (i) trading in the Company's Common Stock shall have been suspended by the Nasdaq National Market or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchanges; (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared either by U.S. federal or New York State authorities; or (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
Termination
          11. . The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the Initial Purchasers set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or the Company or any of the indemnified persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 7 and 8 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
          12. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to the Citigroup General Counsel (fax no.: (212) 816-7912) and confirmed to Citigroup at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Attention: General Counsel; if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to (408) 517-8121 and confirmed to it at 20330 Stevens Creek Blvd., Cupertino, California 95014, attention of the Legal Department.
Notices
          13. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 8 hereof and their respective successors, and, except as expressly set forth in Section 5(a)(ix) hereof, no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
          14. . The Company agrees that any suit, action or proceeding against the Company brought by any Initial Purchaser, the directors, officers, employees and agents of any Initial Purchaser, or by any person who controls any Initial Purchaser, arising out of or based upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby may be instituted in any State or U.S. federal court in The City of New York and County of New York, and waives any objection
Jurisdiction
 
which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such proceeding, and irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any suit, action or proceeding.
          15. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
          16. . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York.
Applicable Law
          17. . The Company hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Waiver of Jury Trial
          18. . The Company hereby acknowledge that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers and any affiliate through which it may be acting, on the other, (b) the Initial Purchasers are acting as principal and not as an agent or fiduciary of the Company and (c) the Company's engagement of the Initial Purchasers in connection with            the offering and the process leading up to the offering is as independent contractors and not in any other capacity. Furthermore, the Company agrees that they are solely responsible for making their own judgments in connection with the offering (irrespective of whether any of the Initial Purchasers has advised or is currently advising the Company on related or other matters). The Company agrees that they will not claim that the Initial Purchasers have rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owe an agency, fiduciary or similar duty to the Company, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
No Fiduciary Duty
          19. . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
          20. . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
          21. . The terms that follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
          "Act" shall mean the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
          "Affiliate" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D.
          "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in The City of New York.
 
          "Citigroup" shall mean Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
          "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
          "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Memorandum, as amended or supplemented at the Execution Time, (ii) the principal amount of Securities and the price of the Securities to initial investors of the Securities on the front cover of the Final Memorandum and (iii) any Issuer Written Information.
          "Exchange Act" shall mean the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
          "Execution Time" shall mean the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto.
          "Investment Company Act" shall mean the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
          "Issuer Written Information" shall mean any writings in addition to the Preliminary Memorandum that the parties expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package, which information shall include, without limitation, any electronic "road shows" conducted in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities.
          "NASD" shall mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
          "PORTAL" shall mean the Private Offerings, Resales and Trading through Automated Linkages system of the NASD.
          "Regulation D" shall mean Regulation D under the Act.
          "Regulation S" shall mean Regulation S under the Act.
          "Regulation S-X" shall mean Regulation S-X under the Act.
          "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
 
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement between the Company and the several Initial Purchasers.
 
SCHEDULE I
Purchase Price for the Firm Securities: 98.5% of the Principal Amount thereof
 
SCHEDULE I (Continued)


