FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20060216150617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On February 10, 2006, James A. Beer accepted an employment offer from Symantec Corporation (the "Company") for the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The material terms of his employment offer are set forth below under Item 5.02 (c) and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
(c) On February 13, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of James A. Beer as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Beer had served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of AMR Corporation and AMR's principal subsidiary, American Airlines, Inc., since January 2004. Mr. Beer had served as Vice President of American Airlines from 1998 to December 2003. Mr. Beer is 45 years old. A copy of the press release, entitled "Symantec Names James Beer Chief Financial Officer," is attached as Exhibit 99.01 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
On February 10, 2006, Mr. Beer accepted an employment offer from the Company, pursuant to which he will receive an annual base salary of $650,000 and an annual bonus target of 80% of his annual base salary. Mr. Beer will receive a one-time bonus award of $2 million, which shall be payable within 30 days after his commencement of employment with the Company. In addition, Mr. Beer will receive a separate one-time bonus award of $500,000, which shall be payable within 30 days of the six month anniversary of his commencement of employment with the Company. The Company will also grant to Mr. Beer an option to purchase 300,000 shares of the Company's common stock and 100,000 Restricted Stock Units. Mr. Beer will be eligible to participate in Symantec's employee and executive benefit programs, including the Company's Executive Severance Plan.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced that it has appointed James Beer as executive vice president and chief financial officer. Beer most recently served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of AMR Corp. and American Airlines.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Feb. 13, 2006 
"In dealing with the challenges of the airline industry over the last several years, James has demonstrated the ability to move quickly to identify solutions to address complex problems on a global scale," said John W. Thompson, chief executive officer of Symantec. "His broad experience in a Global 500 organization will be a great complement to the Symantec leadership team."
Beer will lead Symantec's worldwide finance organization and will have responsibility for accounting, strategic planning and analysis, treasury, tax, and audit. He will also lead the corporate development, facilities and operations teams.
"Symantec is uniquely positioned to take advantage of tremendous growth opportunities in information technology," said Beer. "I look forward to working with the leadership team to help realize and maximize that potential."
While at American Airlines, Beer held a variety of financial planning and operating roles including leading the airline's European and Asia Pacific businesses. He also led, on behalf of American, the creation of the world alliance, as well as the majority of American's other international alliance relationships. In addition, he was responsible for the negotiation of multi-billion dollar acquisition transactions and the associated financing. In his corporate development role, he was responsible for American's investments in Orbitz and Worldspan. He also led the effort to evaluate options for enhancing shareholder value which culminated in the initial public offering and eventual spin-off of the Sabre Group.
one
 
Symantec Names James Beer Chief Financial Officer Page 2 of 2
Named chief financial officer of American Airlines in December 2003, Beer was responsible for the corporation's finance functions including financial planning, treasury, corporate development, accounting, tax, purchasing, and investor relations. He also managed American Beacon Advisors Inc., a subsidiary of AMR that manages more than $30 billion in assets. He initially joined American Airlines in 1991.
Prior to joining American Airlines, Beer spent seven years as a management consultant at Andersen Consulting, now known as Accenture, in Europe and the United States. He holds a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering from Imperial College, London University, and a master's degree in business administration from Harvard Business School.
About Symantec
Symantec is the world leader in providing solutions to help individuals and enterprises assure the security, availability, and integrity of their information. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in more than 40 countries. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec, the Symantec logo, VERITAS, and the VERITAS logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. Additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the individual companies and are respectfully acknowledged.


