FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20060726163427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 26, 2006, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today reported results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, ended June 30, 2006. GAAP revenue for the quarter was $1.26 billion and non-GAAP revenue was $1.28 billion. Non-GAAP revenue grew 2 percent over the comparable period a year ago.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  July 26, 2006 
GAAP net income for the fiscal first quarter was $95 million, compared to $199 million for the same quarter last year. Diluted earnings per share was $0.09, compared to earnings per share of $0.27 for the same quarter last year.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income for the fiscal first quarter was $248 million, compared to $311 million for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.24, compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.25 for the same quarter last year. For a detailed reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results, please refer to the attached consolidated financial statements.
Non-GAAP Results:
"Performance for the quarter was driven by strong sales of our Norton Internet Security, Storage Foundation, and enterprise messaging solutions, as well as solid execution by our services organization," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and chief executive officer. "Our results speak to the value of our diversified business model, our strong market leadership in each business unit, and our long-standing relationships with consumers and enterprises around the world. I am very proud of the tremendous team effort."
Financial Highlights
For the quarter, Symantec's consumer business represented 30 percent of total revenue and grew 6 percent year-over-year on a combined non-GAAP basis. The data center management business represented 27 percent of total revenue and remained flat year-over-year. The security and data management business represented 38 percent of total revenue and declined 2 percent year-over-year. Services revenue represented 5 percent of total revenue and grew 18 percent year-over-year.
 
Symantec Reports Solid First Quarter Earnings Page 2 of 4
International revenues represented 51 percent of total revenue in the first quarter and grew 5 percent year-over-year on a combined non-GAAP basis. Asia Pacific/Japan revenue for the quarter represented 14 percent of total revenue and grew 16 percent year-over-year. The Europe, Middle East, and Africa region represented 31 percent of total revenue for the quarter and grew 1 percent year-over-year. The Americas, including the United States, Latin America, and Canada, represented 55 percent of total revenue and declined 1 percent year-over-year.
GAAP short- and long-term deferred revenue at the end of the June 2006 quarter was $2.209 billion. Non-GAAP deferred revenue at the end of the June 2006 quarter reached a record $2.244 billion. Non-GAAP deferred revenue grew 26 percent as compared to the June 2005 quarter.
September Quarter Forecast
For the September 2006 quarter, GAAP revenue is estimated between $1.265 billion and $1.295 billion. GAAP diluted earnings per share for the September quarter is estimated between $0.11 and $0.12.
Non-GAAP revenue for the September quarter is estimated between $1.275 billion and $1.305 billion. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is forecasted between $0.26 and $0.27.
Fiscal Year 2007 Forecast
For the fiscal year ending March 2007, GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.1 billion to $5.3 billion. GAAP diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year ending in March 2007 is estimated between $0.46 and $0.56.
To adjust for the $1.5 billion stock buy back program announced in the June quarter, Symantec is increasing its non-GAAP earnings per share guidance for FY07 by $0.06. Non-GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.2 billion to $5.4 billion. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is forecasted between $1.06 and $1.16.
Quarterly Highlights
 
Symantec Reports Solid First Quarter Earnings Page 3 of 4
Conference Call
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the fiscal first quarter, ended June 30, 2006, and to review guidance for the fiscal year 2007. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html
About Symantec
Symantec is the world leader in providing solutions to help individuals and enterprises assure the security, availability, and integrity of their information. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in 40 countries. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
Symantec Reports Solid First Quarter Earnings Page 4 of 4
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including statements relating to projections of future revenue and earnings per share for the second quarter and year of fiscal 2007, and projections of deferred revenue, amortization of acquisition related intangibles and stock-based compensation. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: maintaining customer and partner relationships; the anticipated growth of certain market segments, particularly with regard to security and storage; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; the successful development of new products and integration of acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
Our results of operations have undergone significant change due to a series of acquisitions, the impact of SFAS 123(R) and other corporate events. To help our readers understand our past financial performance and our future results, we supplement the financial results that we provide in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, with non-GAAP financial measures. The method we use to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Our non-GAAP results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. All references to "combined non-GAAP" financial information for pre-acquisition periods include our results with those of Veritas Software Corporation for like fiscal quarters (i.e., combining our results for our first quarter of fiscal 2006, which ended July 1, 2005, with the result for Veritas' first quarter of fiscal 2005, which ended March 31, 2005). Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to our quarterly earnings release and which can be found, along with additional combined non-GAAP and other financial information, on the investor relations page of our Web site at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest/center.html
 
 
 
 
The non-GAAP financial measures included in the table above are non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income per share, which adjust for the following items: business combination accounting entries, expenses related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges and charges related to the amortization of other intangible assets, and certain other items. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is useful to investors, and such measures are used by our management, for the reasons associated with each of the adjusting items as described below.
We include revenue associated with Veritas deferred revenue that was excluded as a result of purchase accounting adjustments to fair value because we believe it is reflective of ongoing operating results.
(A) Fair value adjustment to Veritas deferred revenue.
The amounts recorded as amortization of acquired product rights arise from prior acquisitions and are non-cash in nature. We exclude these expenses because we believe they are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred and are not directly related to the operation of our business.
(B) Amortization of acquired product rights.
Consists of bonuses related to the Veritas acquisition and executive sign-on bonuses for newly hired executives. We exclude these amounts because they arise from prior acquisitions and other infrequent events and we believe they are not directly related to the operation of our business. For the three months ended June 30, 2006 executive incentive bonuses were allocated as follows:
(C) Executive incentive bonuses.
This amount represents Veritas' net revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2005. We include Veritas' net revenue because we believe it is useful in comparing the ongoing operating results of the combined company with pre-merger results of the two companies.
(D) Veritas' net revenue.
These amounts arise from severance, benefits, outplacement services, and excess facilities resulting from our company restructurings and we believe they are not directly related to the operation of our business.
(E) Restructuring.
Consists of expenses incurred for consulting services and other professional fees associated with the integration activities for our acquisition of Veritas. These expenses arose from a specific prior acquisition and we believe they are not directly related to the operation of our business. The three months ended June 30, 2006 did not include integration expenses. For the three months ended June 30, 2005 integration expenses were allocated as follows:
(F) Integration.
 
This amount adjusts the provision for income taxes to reflect the effect of the non-GAAP adjustments on non-GAAP operating income.
(G) Income tax effect on above items.
This amount represents Veritas' net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and includes the following: $399 million of gross profit less $400 million of operating expenses less $12 million of other expense and taxes, net. We include Veritas' net loss because we believe it is useful in comparing the ongoing operating results of the combined company with pre-merger results of the two companies.
(H) Veritas' net loss.
The amounts recorded as amortization of other intangible assets arise from prior acquisitions and are non-cash in nature. We exclude these expenses because we believe they are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred and are not directly related to the operation of our business.
(I) Amortization of other intangible assets.
On May 12, 2005, we resolved the Altiris patent litigation matter with a cross-licensing agreement that resolved all legal claims between the companies. We exclude this amount because it arose from a specific litigation matter and we believe it is not directly related to the operation of our business.
(J) Patent settlement.
We have equity investments in privately held companies for business and strategic purposes. We exclude the gain on sale of strategic investments because we believe it is not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred and is not directly related to the operation of our business.
(K) Gain on sale of strategic investments.
Prior to our acquisition of Veritas, Veritas accrued a $30 million penalty based on settlement discussions with the SEC. We exclude the proposed SEC legal settlement because we believe it is not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred and is not directly related to the operation of our business.
(L) Proposed Veritas SEC legal settlement.
Consists of expenses for employee stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchase plan determined in accordance with APB 25 and SFAS 123(R) pre and post adoption of SFAS 123(R) on April 1, 2006, respectively. We exclude these stock-based compensation expenses because they are non-cash expenses that we believe are not reflective of ongoing operating results. Further, we believe it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123(R) to our results of operations. For the three months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, stock-based compensation was allocated as follows:
(M) Stock-based compensation.
 
 
Footnotes:
 
 
 
 


