FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20060615154603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On June 11, 2006, Symantec Corporation ("Symantec") adopted the FY07 Executive Annual Incentive Plans for executive officers of Symantec, including the named executive officers. Under the terms of these plans, the named executive officers will be eligible to receive performance-based incentive bonuses equivalent to the bonuses payable under, and upon terms substantially similar to, Symantec's FY06 Executive Annual Incentive Plans. The target payouts under the FY07 Executive Annual Incentive Plans are 60% to 125% of a participant's annual base salary. The actual bonus amounts are subject to the following metrics and weighting: (a) achievement of targeted annual revenue growth of Symantec (50% weighting); and (b) achievement of targeted annual earnings per share growth of Symantec (50% weighting). The measurement period for targeted revenue and earnings per share growth is the fiscal year ending on March 30, 2007. During the fiscal year, no participant shall receive an award of more than $5 million under the FY07 Executive Annual Incentive Plans.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.01
This Annual Incentive Plan ("Plan") of Symantec Corporation ("Symantec") is effective as of April 1, 2006. The Board of Directors reserves the right to alter or cancel all or any portion of the Plan for any reason at any time.
1
 
 
2
 
Under the terms of the Executive Incentive Plans, Symantec's named executive officers will be eligible to receive performance-based incentive bonuses at the end of the fiscal year with target payouts ranging from 60% to 125% of a participant's annual base salary. The actual bonus amounts are subject to the following metrics and weighting: (a) achievement of targeted annual revenue growth of Symantec (50% weighting); and (b) achievement of targeted annual earnings per share growth of Symantec (50% weighting). The measurement period for targeted revenue and earnings per share growth is the fiscal year ending on March 30, 2007.
3


