FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20060131164443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 31, 2006, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today reported results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, ended Dec. 30, 2005. GAAP revenue for the December 2005 quarter was $1.149 billion and non-GAAP revenue was $1.253 billion. Non-GAAP revenue includes $104 million of deferred revenue that has been eliminated from GAAP results as part of the purchase accounting associated with the acquisition of VERITAS Software Corporation. On a non-GAAP basis, revenue grew five percent over the December 2004 quarter's combined non-GAAP revenue of $1.192 billion.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Jan. 31, 2006 
The December quarter's GAAP net income was $91 million, resulting in fully diluted GAAP earnings per share of $0.08. GAAP net income includes $166 million of expenses related to the amortization of acquired software and intangibles, the amortization of deferred compensation, and integration and restructuring.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income was $282 million for the third quarter, five percent higher than the December 2004 quarter's combined non-GAAP net income of $269 million. Non-GAAP fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.26, up 18 percent as compared to our combined non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.22 in the December 2004 quarter. Non-GAAP earnings per share excludes the write-off of in-process research and development, the amortization of acquired software and intangibles, the amortization of deferred compensation, and integration and restructuring expenses.
Non-GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP results, as presented in the attached consolidated financial statements, exclude certain GAAP expenses, net of tax, and include the results of operations of VERITAS for the applicable periods, including adjustments based on the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date of July 2, 2005, and deferred revenue that was eliminated as a result of purchase accounting for the VERITAS acquisition.
 
Symantec Reports Solid Third Quarter Earnings Page 2 of 5
"Our December quarter was driven by a record number of large transactions and robust performance in backup, email archiving, and high availability solutions," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and chief executive officer. "We continue to believe the combination of our growing deferred revenue balance, broad product portfolio, and diverse customer base will be critical factors in driving consistently predictable results."
For the quarter, Symantec's Data Protection segment comprised 26 percent of total revenue and grew 16 percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year. The storage management segment represented 23 percent of total revenue and grew nine percent year-over-year. The enterprise security business represented 21 percent of total revenue and grew seven percent year-over-year. Services revenue represented four percent of total revenue and grew 38 percent year-over-year. Symantec's consumer business represented 26 percent of total revenue and declined ten percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year as was expected with the shift to a ratable revenue recognition model.
Revenue Components
International revenues represented 49 percent of non-GAAP revenue and grew eight percent on a combined non-GAAP basis over the same quarter last year. The Americas, including the United States, Latin America, and Canada, represented 55 percent of total revenue and grew two percent year-over-year. The Europe, Middle East, and Africa region represented 32 percent of total revenue and grew eight percent year-over-year. Asia Pacific/Japan represented 13 percent of total revenue and grew 11 percent on a combined non-GAAP basis year-over-year.
For the March 2006 quarter, GAAP revenue is estimated between $1.19 billion and $1.22 billion. This excludes $60 million of deferred revenue that was lost through the purchase accounting for the VERITAS transaction. GAAP fully diluted earnings per share for the March quarter is estimated at $0.10 at the mid-point of the revenue guidance.
March Quarter Forecast
Non-GAAP revenue for the March quarter is estimated between $1.25 billion and $1.28 billion, including about $60 million of deferred revenue. Non-GAAP fully diluted earnings per share is forecasted at $0.25 at the mid-point of the revenue guidance. Non-GAAP earnings per share excludes approximately $155 million of expenses related to the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and deferred compensation charges.
For the fiscal year ending March 2006, GAAP revenue is estimated between $4.09 billion and $4.12 billion. This excludes $300 million of deferred revenue that was lost through the purchase accounting for the VERITAS transaction and $559 million of revenue related to VERITAS for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. GAAP fully diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year ending in March 2006 is estimated at $0.24 at the mid-point of GAAP revenue guidance.
Fiscal Year 2006 Forecast
 
Symantec Reports Solid Third Quarter Earnings Page 3 of 5
Including $300 million of deferred revenue that was lost through the purchase accounting for the VERITAS transaction and $559 million of revenue related to VERITAS for the quarter ended March 31, 2005,, Symantec's non-GAAP revenue for fiscal 2006 is estimated in the range of $4.95 billion and $4.98 billion. Non-GAAP fully diluted earnings per share is estimated at $0.99 at the mid-point of non-GAAP revenue guidance, excluding approximately $980 million related to the write-off of in-process research and development, and expenses related to the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, deferred compensation charges, integration and restructuring,
For the fiscal year ending March 2007, GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.35 billion to $5.55 billion, excluding about $55 million in lost deferred revenue from the VERITAS merger. GAAP fully diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year ending in March 2007 is estimated at $0.59 at the mid-point of the revenue guidance.
Fiscal Year 2007 Forecast
Non-GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.4 billion to $5.6 billion, including about $55 million in deferred revenue from the VERITAS merger. Non-GAAP fully diluted earnings per share is estimated at $1.14 at the midpoint of guidance, excluding approximately $750 million in expenses related to the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and stock-based compensation charges.
Quarterly Highlights
 
Symantec Reports Solid Third Quarter Earnings Page 4 of 5
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the results of the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, ended Dec. 30, 2005, and to review guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and fiscal year 2007. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
Conference Call
http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html
About Symantec
Symantec is the world leader in providing solutions to help individuals and enterprises assure the security, availability, and integrity of their information. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in more than 40 countries. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please view the Symantec Press Center at http://www.symantec.com/PressCenter/ on Symantec's Web site. All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
Symantec, the Symantec logo, VERITAS, and the VERITAS logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. Additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of the individual companies and are respectfully acknowledged.
 
Symantec Reports Solid Third Quarter Earnings Page 5 of 5
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including statements relating to projections of future revenue and earnings per share. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: the acquisition of VERITAS, including the successful integration of VERITAS' businesses, maintenance of customer and partner relationships and leveraging of synergies; the sustainability of recent growth rates, particularly for our consumer products; the anticipated growth of certain market segments, particularly the enterprise security and international markets; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; the successful development of new products and integration of acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors section of Symantec's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Symantec assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS:
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, Symantec reports non-GAAP financial results. All references to "combined non-GAAP" financial information include the results of Symantec for the December 2004 fiscal quarter and the results of VERITAS for the September 2004 fiscal quarter, and have been adjusted to exclude certain expenses, net of tax, and include adjustments based on the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date of July 2, 2005 and deferred revenue that was eliminated as a result of purchase accounting for the VERITAS acquisition. Symantec's management believes the non-GAAP measures used in this release are useful to investors because they provide supplemental information that facilitates comparisons to prior periods. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its financial results, develop budgets and manage expenditures. The method Symantec uses to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP, may differ from the methods used by other companies and should not be regarded as a replacement for corresponding GAAP measures. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to this release. Additional information regarding the reconciliation can be found on the investor relations page of Symantec's Web site, along with additional pro forma financial information for the combined company, at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest/center.html
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES:
The above information reflects the combined results of Symantec Corporation ("Symantec") and VERITAS Software Corporation ("VERITAS"), including amounts related to the amortization of fair value adjustments of assets acquired and liabilities assumed by Symantec as of the actual acquisition date of July 2, 2005. For comparative purposes, the information presented assumes that the acquisition took place on April 1, 2004. If the acquisition had taken place on April 1, 2004, the fair values of the assets and liabilities would have been different and actual results of operations would have been different from those presented above.
Additional non-GAAP adjustments consist of: non-cash charges related to acquisitions, such as the amortization of intangibles and stock-based compensation expense, and the write-off of in-process research and development; restructuring charges; integration planning costs; and the impact of other special items, such as other stock-based compensation expense, litigation matters, gain/loss on investments and related adjustments to provision for income taxes on our operating results. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
(*) The results of operations include our results for the three months ended December 31, 2004.
(**) The results of operations include VERITAS' historical results for the three months ended September 30, 2004, including amortization related to fair value adjustments based on the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date of July 2, 2005.
(***) For the three months ended December 31, 2004, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $1.2M for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes.
Footnotes:
Symantec includes these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe these measures are useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided herein.
(1)
Symantec's management refers to these non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP operating margins and net income, in making operating decisions because the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided herein.
(2)
 
The above information reflects the combined results of Symantec Corporation ("Symantec") and VERITAS Software Corporation ("VERITAS"), including amounts related to the amortization of fair value adjustments of assets acquired and liabilities assumed by Symantec as of the actual acquisition date of July 2, 2005. For comparative purposes, the information presented assumes that the acquisition took place on April 1, 2004. If the acquisition had taken place on April 1, 2004, the fair values of the assets and liabilities would have been different and actual results of operations would have been different from those presented above.
Additional non-GAAP adjustments consist of: non-cash charges related to acquisitions, such as the amortization of intangibles and stock-based compensation expense, and the write-off of in-process research and development; restructuring charges; integration planning costs; and the impact of other special items, such as other stock-based compensation expense, litigation matters, gain/loss on investments and related adjustments to provision for income taxes on our operating results. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
(*) The results of operations include VERITAS' historical results for the three months ended March 31, 2005, including amortization related to fair value adjustments based on the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date of July 2, 2005.
(**) The results of operations include our results for the nine months ended December 31, 2004.
(***) The results of operations include VERITAS' historical results for the nine months ended September 30, 2004, including amortization related to fair value adjustments based on the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date of July 2, 2005.
(****) For the nine months ended December 31, 2004, diluted net income per share is calculated using the if-converted method. Under this method, the numerator excludes the interest expense from the 3% convertible subordinated notes, net of income tax, of $8.4 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2004 and the denominator includes shares issuable from the assumed conversion of the 3% convertible subordinated notes.
Footnotes:
Symantec includes these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe these measures are useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided herein.
(1)
Symantec's management refers to these non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP operating margins and net income, in making operating decisions because the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as provided herein.
(2)


