FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20060427161434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On April 25, 2006, the Board of Directors of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Symantec Executive Retention Plan (the "Plan"). Pursuant to the terms of the Plan, if the employment of a Designated Executive is terminated other than for Cause, or if the Designated Executive resigns following a Constructive Termination, in either case within 12 months after a Change in Control of the Company, all Equity Compensation Awards granted by the Company to such Designated Executive shall become fully vested and, if applicable, exercisable. The amendment expanded the forms of equity compensation subject to the Plan to include, among others, restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights. Prior to this amendment, the only form of equity compensation subject to the Plan was stock options. Unless otherwise defined, capitalized terms used in this Form 8-K have the meanings set forth in the Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.01 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.01
This Executive Retention Plan (the "Plan") applies to the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), President, and other executive officers of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") who are designated as Section 16(b) officers, and such other individuals as may be designated by the Company's Compensation Committee, based on recommendations made by the CEO (collectively, "Designated Executives").
1. Acceleration of Equity Compensation Awards.
If the employment of a Designated Executive is terminated other than for Cause, or if the Designated Executive resigns following a Constructive Termination, in either case within 12 months after a Change in Control, all Equity Compensation Awards granted by the Company to such Designated Executive shall become fully vested and, if applicable, exercisable. Acceleration of vesting will not occur if there is no Change in Control within 12 months prior to such termination or Constructive Termination.
2. Definitions.
Unless defined elsewhere herein, for purposes of the Plan, the following shall have the meaning as set forth below:
"Cause" means (i) gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of duties to the Company (other than as a result of a disability) that has resulted or is likely to result in substantial and material damage to the Company, after a demand for substantial performance is delivered by the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which it believes the Designated Executive has not substantially performed his/her duties and provides the Designated Executive with a reasonable opportunity to cure any alleged gross negligence or willful misconduct; (ii) commission of any act of fraud with respect to the Company or its affiliates; or (iii) conviction of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude causing material harm to the business and affairs of the Company. No act or failure to act by the Designated Executive shall be considered "willful" if done or omitted by the Designated Executive in good faith with reasonable belief that such action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.
"Change in Control" means (i) any person or entity becoming the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing forty (40%) percent of the total voting power of all its then outstanding voting securities, (ii) a merger or consolidation of the Company in which its voting securities immediately prior to the merger or consolidation do not represent, or are not converted into securities that represent, a majority of the voting power of all voting securities of the surviving entity immediately after the merger or consolidation, (iii) a sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or (iv) individuals who, as of the date of adoption of this Plan, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board; provided that any individual who becomes a director of the Company subsequent to the date of adoption of this Plan, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company stockholders, was approved by the vote of at least a majority of the directors then in office shall be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board.
"Constructive Termination" means the occurrence of any of the following conditions without a Designated Executive's written consent, which condition remains in effect for ten (10) days after written notice to the Company from such Designated Executive of such condition:
(a) a decrease in the Designated Executive's base salary or target bonus, or a substantial reduction of other compensation and benefits, from that in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control;
(b) the relocation of a Designated Executive's work place for the Company to a location more than 25 miles from the location of such Designated Executive's work place prior to the Change in Control;
(c) the assignment of responsibilities and duties that are not the Substantive Functional Equivalent of the position which the Designated Executive occupied immediately preceding the Change in Control; or
 
(d) any material breach by the Company of the terms of this Plan which is not cured within 10 days of written notice.
"Equity Compensation Award" shall mean any award of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights or such other equity compensation award held by a Designated Executive granted under an equity compensation plan of the Company, including, without limitation, the Company's 1996 Equity Incentive Plan, its 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and any equity compensation award assumed by the Company in prior acquisitions.
"Substantive Functional Equivalent" means an employment position occupied by a Designated Executive after the Change in Control that:
(a) is in a substantive area of competence (such as, accounting; engineering management; executive management; finance; human resources; marketing, sales and service; operations and manufacturing; etc.) that is consistent with such Designated Executive's experience;
(b) requires a Designated Executive to serve in a role and perform duties that are functionally equivalent to those performed by the Designated Executive prior to the Change in Control,
(c) does not otherwise constitute a material, adverse change in the Designated Executive's responsibilities or duties, as measured against the Designated Executive's responsibilities or duties prior to the Change in Control, in each case, causing it to be of materially lesser rank or responsibility.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any change in role, responsibilities or duties that is solely attributable to the change in the Company's status from that of an independent company to that of a subsidiary of the newly controlling entity shall not constitute a change in role, responsibilities or duties for purposes of claims (b) or (c) above.
3. Adjustment of Excess Parachute Payments to a Designated Executive.
If (1) benefits that accrue to a Designated Executive under this Plan are characterized as excess parachute payments pursuant to Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and (2) the Designated Executive thereby would be subject to any United States federal excise tax due to that characterization, then (3) the Designated Executive may elect, in the Designated Executive's sole discretion, to reduce the benefits that accrue under this Agreement or to have any portion of an applicable Equity Compensation Award not vest in order to avoid any "excess parachute payment" under Section 28OG(b)(1) of the Code.
4. No Employment Agreement.
This Plan does not obligate the Company to continue to employ a Designated Executive for any specific period of time, or in any specific role or geographic location. Subject to the terms of any applicable written employment agreement between Company and a Designated Executive, the Company may assign a Designated Executive to other duties, and either the Company or Designated Executive may terminate Designated Executive's employment at any time for any reason.
5. Release of Claims.
The Company may condition the benefits described provided under this Plan upon the delivery by the Designated Executive of a signed release of claims in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
6. Deductions and Withholding.
The Company may withhold or require payment of all federal, state, and/or local taxes which the Company determines are required to be withheld in accordance with applicable statutes and/or regulations from time to time in effect.
 
7. Governing Law.
This Plan shall be subject to, and governed by, the laws of the State of California applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely therein.
8. Amendment or Termination.
This Plan may be amended or terminated by the Board of Directors prior to a Change in Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment or termination of this Plan shall reduce any Designated Executive's rights or benefits that have accrued and become payable under this Plan before such amendment or termination.


