FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20070614124713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events
On June 14, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the authorization of a $2 billion share repurchase program. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a $2 billion share repurchase program. This open-ended program is effective immediately. Repurchases will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in private negotiated transactions. Depending on market conditions and other factors, these repurchases may be commenced or suspended from time to time without prior notice.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  June 14, 2007 
Symantec has completed the $1 billion share repurchase program announced in January 2007  repurchasing 54 million shares at an average price $18.51. In the past two years, Symantec has repurchased nearly $7 billion of its shares.
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in infrastructure software, enabling businesses and consumers to have confidence in a connected world. The company helps customers protect their infrastructure, information, and interactions by delivering software and services that address risks to security, availability, compliance and performance. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in 40 countries. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements regarding our planned share repurchase program, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to whether or not we will complete our share repurchase program during any particular time frame or at all and whether our cash and short term investments may be insufficient to fund our share repurchase program. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended March 30, 2007. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release.


