FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20071214105944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02.     Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e)
On December 11, 2007, Symantec Corporation (the "") entered into a Separation and Release Agreement (the "") with Kristof Hagerman to provide for the terms of his separation from the Company. As reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 6, 2007, Mr. Hagerman, one of the Company's named executive officers in fiscal year 2007, ceased serving as group president of the Data Center Management group, effective as of November 5, 2007.
Company
Agreement
Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Company will pay to Mr. Hagerman cash severance payments totaling $191,253.76. One half of this amount is payable on December 18, 2007, and the balance is payable on August 19, 2008, in each case assuming the conditions of the Agreement are satisfied as of the applicable payment date. Mr. Hagerman has agreed to repay these amounts to the Company if, prior to August 19, 2008, he accepts employment or establishes any consulting or advisory relationship with competitors of the Company or interferes the client relationships of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates. The Company has agreed to provide continued group health plan coverage through the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1995 (COBRA), for up to 12 months (measured from December 1, 2007) at the Company's expense. The Company will also make available to Mr. Hagerman outplacement assistance support for up to six months at the Company's expense. Pursuant to the release contained in the Agreement, Mr. Hagerman provided the Company and its affiliates a general liability release. The separation agreement and release are in part subject to a seven calendar day revocation right on the part of Mr. Hagerman and, assuming no revocation, the cash payments described above and the release will become binding and effective on December 18, 2007. Cash amounts payable as described above will be reduced by applicable tax withholding.
The payments and other benefits provided for in the Agreement are in lieu of any payments or other benefits to which Mr. Hagerman would otherwise be entitled to receive under that certain employment agreement, dated December 15, 2004, between the Company and him as disclosed in the Company's definitive proxy statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 30, 2007, except that all unvested stock options and restricted stock units assumed by the Company in its acquisition of VERITAS Software Corporation have vested in full and became fully exercisable at the time of his termination of employment as provided for therein.
The foregoing description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.01
November 5, 2007 (as amended on December 7, 2007)
Kristof Hagerman
Dear Kris,
This letter sets forth the agreement between you and Symantec Corporation ("Symantec") regarding severance benefits and your release of certain claims. This Separation and Release Agreement (the "Agreement") incorporates by reference your Symantec Employment Agreement ("Employment Agreement") dated December 15, 2004. This Agreement is not to be signed before your Termination Date.
Symantec and you agree:
1.     Termination Date.  Your employment with Symantec will terminate on November 19, 2007 (the "Termination Date").
2.     Acknowledgement of Payment of Wages/Reimbursements.  You acknowledge that Symantec has paid you all accrued wages, salary, bonuses, accrued but unused vacation pay and any similar payment due and owing ("Wages") through the pay period immediately preceding the pay period in which the Termination Date occurs. On the Termination Date, Symantec shall deliver to you a final paycheck containing all remaining Wages owing as of the Termination Date. You acknowledge that Symantec does not owe you any other Wages except for the severance payment provided for in Section 4 hereof, any outstanding business expenses and any outstanding commission payments owing as of the Termination Date. Symantec shall reimburse all reasonable and necessary business expenses incurred prior to your Termination Date in accordance with Symantec's reimbursement policy, provided a request for reimbursement is received within thirty days of your Termination Date.
3.     Continuation of Group Health Benefits.  Absent COBRA continuation, your group health benefits end on your termination date. If you are eligible for, and properly elect, continuation of your group health benefits through COBRA, Symantec shall pay the premiums for such coverage, beginning on November 20, 2007 and ending on the earlier of (i) the expiration of the twelve month period measured from the first day of the first month following the date of your termination of employment or (ii) the first date you are covered under another employer's health benefit program, which provides substantially the same level of benefits without exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. Symantec's obligation to pay the premiums terminates immediately on the date you lose eligibility for COBRA. You may be entitled to continue your COBRA coverage at your own expense after Symantec stops paying the premium. The details of the COBRA continuation benefit are provided with your exit package.
1
 
4.     Payment.  In further consideration of this Agreement, Symantec shall pay you severance in the amount of $191,253.76, equal to 21.62 weeks of pay, payable as follows: fifty percent (50%) of the severance amount upon termination of your employment, and the remaining fifty percent (50%) at the end of the nine-month (9) month period measured from the Termination Date. This severance will be paid only after all of the following conditions are met: (1) your employment has terminated; (2) Symantec has received the original of this Agreement bearing your signature; (3) any applicable revocation period has passed without revocation having occurred; and (4) your continued compliance with the terms of this Agreement. Symantec shall withhold taxes from severance pay in accordance with all federal, state and local laws.
5.     Outplacement Assistance.  Symantec will also make available to you, at its expense, a 6 month professional re-employment program offered by Drake, Beam Morin. You have three months from your Termination Date to utilize the services of Drake, Beam Morin. Please refer to the enclosed materials for details.
6.     Employee Benefit and Stock Option Plans.  You shall be entitled to your rights under Symantec's benefit plans as such plans, by their provisions, apply upon an employee's termination. Unless expressly provided to the contrary under the written terms of the benefit plans, all your benefits will terminate on the Termination Date, including your stock/option vesting and participation in the 401k plan, and you may exercise all rights to any vested benefit in accordance with the written terms of the stock option/issuance agreements or benefit plans. Symantec equity that has not vested on the Termination Date is forfeited. Pursuant to Section 9 of the Employment Agreement, your assumed VERITAS options and VERITAS Restricted Stock Units shall, to the extent outstanding but not yet vested, vest and become immediately exercisable or issuable as to all the Symantec shares subject to those options and units as of the Termination Date.
7.     Return of Company Property.  You hereby represent and warrant to Symantec that on or before the Termination Date you will have returned to Symantec any and all property or data of Symantec of any type whatsoever that may have been in your possession or control.
8.     Confidential Information.  You hereby acknowledge that you are bound by all confidentiality agreements that you entered into with Symantec and/or any and all past and current parent, subsidiary, related, acquired and affiliated companies, predecessors and successors thereto (which agreements are incorporated herein by this reference), that as a result of your employment you have had access to the Confidential Information (as defined in such agreement(s)), that you will hold all such Confidential Information in strictest confidence and that you may not make any use of such Confidential Information on behalf of any third party. You further confirm that on or before the Termination Date you will deliver to Symantec all documents and data of any nature containing or pertaining to such Confidential Information and that you will not take with you any such documents or data or any reproduction thereof, except that nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit you from participating in judicial or regulatory proceeding with a state or federal agency if legally obligated to do so. In the event you believe you are legally obligated by statutory or regulatory requirements (including compulsory legal process), to violate this Section 8, you shall so notify Symantec in writing immediately, and in no event less than ten (10) days prior to the date for disclosure. If Symantec takes any action to challenge such disclosure, statement or comment, you shall defer making such disclosure, statement or comment until Symantec's challenge is finally resolved, unless ordered by a Court to give the information notwithstanding Symantec's challenge.
2
 
9.     Non-Compete Agreement.  You agree that for a period of nine (9) months from and after the Termination Date, you shall not:
(a) accept employment with or establish any consulting or advisory relationship (which would consist of your being compensated either directly by the listed company below, or compensated by a third party to provide services for the listed company when such third party is retained by the listed company) with the following companies: EMC Corporation, Network Appliance, Oracle, Sun, HP, BladeLogic, CommVault Systems, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, IBM, Computer Associates and Cisco; and/or
(b) interfere with Symantec's relationship, or any subsidiary's or affiliate's (e.g., a joint venture of Symantec or any entity in which Symantec owns at least a 51% interest) relationships with any of their clients. Interference would consist of your engaging directly with the Symantec customer to encourage them either not to do business with Symantec, or to encourage them to reduce any planned purchase of Symantec products. Such activity will be limited only to the following product areas: storage management, data protection, and high availability and server management.
You agree that in the event of your violation of Paragraph 9, you are obligated to repay Symantec any and all compensation you have received from Symantec under Paragraph 4 of the Agreement as decided by a mutually agreed upon arbitrator.
10.     Release and Waiver of All Claims.  You waive any limitation on this release under California Civil Code Section 1542 which provides that a general release does not extend to claims which a person does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release which, if known, must have materially affected his/her decision to grant the release. In consideration of the benefits provided in this Agreement,
you release Symantec, and any and all past, current and future parent, subsidiary, related and affiliated companies, predecessors and successors thereto, as well as their officers, directors, shareholders, agents, employees, affiliates, representatives, attorneys, insurers, successors and assigns, from any and all claims, liability, damages or causes of action whatsoever, whether known or unknown, which exist or may in the future exist arising from or relating to events, acts or omissions on or before the Effective Date of this Agreement, other than those rights which as a matter of law cannot be waived.
You understand and acknowledge that this release includes, but is not limited to any claim in for reinstatement, re-employment, damages, attorney fees, stock options, bonuses or additional compensation in any form, and any claim, including but not limited to those arising under tort, contract and local, state or federal statute, including but not limited to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Post Civil War Civil Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 1981-88), the Equal Pay Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Uniformed Services Employment and Re-employment Rights Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and the civil rights, employment, and labor laws of any state and any regulation under such authorities relating to your employment or association with Symantec or the termination of that relationship.
The payments and benefits set forth in this Agreement are in full satisfaction of any and all accrued salary, vacation pay, bonus pay, profit-sharing, termination benefits or other compensation to which
3
 
you may be entitled by virtue of your employment with Symantec or your termination from employment, including any payments or benefits provided for under your Employment Agreement.
You understand that notwithstanding any provisions and covenants in this Paragraph, nothing in this Agreement and Release is intended to constitute an unlawful release or waiver of any of your rights under any laws and/or to prevent, impede, or interfere with your ability and/or right to: (a) provide truthful testimony if under subpoena to do so, (b) file a claim with any state or federal agency or to participate or cooperate in such a matter, and/or (c) to challenge the validity of this release.
10A.  Time Period To Review Agreement and Revocation Rights.  You have until December 12, 2007 to review and consider this Agreement. Any amendments to this letter shall not re-trigger the twenty-one (21) day review period. In the event you have not signed and returned this Agreement by December 12, 2007, the offer will expire. You are advised to consult an attorney about this Agreement. Once you have accepted the terms of this Agreement, you will have an additional seven (7) calendar days in which to revoke such acceptance. To revoke, you must send a written statement of revocation to Liz Parks (address listed in section 11K below). If you revoke within seven (7) days, you will receive no benefits under this Agreement. In the event you do not exercise your right to revoke this Agreement, the Agreement shall become effective on the date immediately following the seven-day (7) waiting period described above.
11.     Additional Terms
4
 
ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
I have been given sufficient time to consider this Agreement, (2) I have carefully read and understand this Agreement, (3) I have been advised in writing to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Agreement, and (4) I sign it voluntarily.
5


