FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20070124163707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 24, 2007, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 29, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.01 hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained in this Item 2.02 and in the accompanying Exhibit 99.01 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01. Other Events
On January 24, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the authorization of a $1 billion share repurchase program. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.02 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.01
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today reported results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, ended Dec. 29, 2006. GAAP revenue for the quarter was $1.313 billion and non-GAAP revenue was $1.324 billion. Non-GAAP revenue grew 6 percent over the comparable period a year ago.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Jan. 24, 2007 
GAAP deferred revenue at the end of the December 2006 quarter was $2.46 billion. Non-GAAP deferred revenue at the end of the quarter reached $2.49 billion, growing 25 percent compared to the December 2005 quarter.
GAAP net income for the fiscal third quarter was $114 million, compared to $91 million for the same quarter last year. Diluted earnings per share was $0.12 compared to $0.08 per share for the same quarter last year.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income for the fiscal third quarter was $248 million, compared to $282 million for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.26 in both periods. For a detailed reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results, please refer to the attached consolidated financial statements.
Non-GAAP Results:
"With a disappointing quarter behind us, we are moving to better align our costs with our new revenue expectations," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and chief executive officer. "I am confident that we have the right strategy in place; however, we must sharpen our execution."
 
Symantec Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results Page 2 of 4
Financial Highlights
For the quarter, Symantec's Consumer business represented 31 percent of total revenue and grew 24 percent year-over-year on a non-GAAP basis. Services represented 4 percent of total revenue and grew 8 percent year-over-year. The Security and Data Management business represented 39 percent of total revenue and grew 3 percent year-over-year. The Data Center Management business represented 26 percent of total revenue and declined 8 percent year-over-year.
International revenues represented 50 percent of total revenue in the third quarter and grew 7 percent year-over-year on a non-GAAP basis. The Asia Pacific/Japan revenue for the quarter represented 14 percent of total revenue and grew 11 percent year-over-year. The Americas, including the United States, Latin America, and Canada, represented 55 percent of total revenue and increased 5 percent year-over-year. The Europe, Middle East, and Africa region represented 31 percent of total revenue for the quarter and grew 5 percent year-over-year.
Cost-Saving Initiative
In order to align costs with new revenue expectations, Symantec plans to reduce its cost structure by $200 million. The company has identified a number of areas to achieve its target: reduce new hires; reduce contractor and consulting spending; reduce travel spending; consolidate additional facilities; and reduce the current workforce in certain business functions and geographies.
March Quarter and Fiscal Year 2007 Guidance
Symantec is reaffirming its revised guidance provided on Tuesday, Jan. 16, 2007. The impact of the cost saving initiative is expected to be modest in the March 2007 quarter and has been taken into account in the guidance.
For the March 2007 quarter, GAAP revenue is estimated between $1.24 billion and $1.27 billion. GAAP diluted earnings per share for the March quarter is estimated between $0.04 and $0.06. For the fiscal year ending March 2007, GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.08 billion to $5.11 billion. GAAP diluted earnings per share is estimated between $0.36 and $0.39. It is possible, however, that there will be a restructuring charge related to the cost savings efforts that would affect GAAP earnings for the March 2007 quarter.
Non-GAAP revenue for the March 2007 quarter is estimated between $1.25 billion and $1.28 billion. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is estimated between $0.18 and $0.20. For the fiscal year ending March 2007, non-GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.13 billion to $5.16 billion. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is estimated between $0.92 and $0.95.
Deferred revenue is expected to be in the range of $2.60 billion and $2.65 billion. Cash flow from operations is expected to be of the order of $1.5 billion.
 
Symantec Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results Page 3 of 4
Quarterly Highlights
Conference Call
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss results from the fiscal third quarter, ended Dec. 29, 2006, and to review guidance for the fiscal year 2007. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html
 
Symantec Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results Page 4 of 4
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in infrastructure software, enabling businesses and consumers to have confidence in a connected world. The company helps customers protect their infrastructure, information, and interactions by delivering software and services that address risks to security, availability, compliance, and performance. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in 40 countries. More information is available at www.symantec.com.
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including statements relating to projections of future revenue and earnings per share for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2007, and projections of deferred revenue, cash flow from operations, amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and stock-based compensation. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: maintaining customer and partner relationships; the anticipated growth of certain market segments, particularly with regard to security and storage; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; the successful development of new products and integration of acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance; and any potential effects of Staff Accounting Bulletin 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements," which we will be required to adopt in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, on our results of operations and financial conditions. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2006. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
Our results of operations have undergone significant change due to a series of acquisitions, the impact of SFAS 123(R) and other corporate events. To help our readers understand our past financial performance and our future results, we supplement the financial results that we provide in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, with non-GAAP financial measures. The method we use to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Our non-GAAP results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to our quarterly earnings release and which can be found, along with other financial information, on the investor relations page of our Web site at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest/center.html
 
 
 
 
The non-GAAP financial measures included in the table above are non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share, which adjust for the following items: business combination accounting entries, expenses related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges and charges related to the amortization of other intangible assets, and certain other items. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is useful to investors, and such measures are used by our management, for the reasons associated with each of the adjusting items as described below.
. We include revenue associated with Veritas deferred revenue that was excluded as a result of purchase accounting adjustments to fair value because we believe they are reflective of ongoing operating results.
(A) Fair value adjustment to Veritas deferred revenue
This amount represents Veritas' net revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2005. We include Veritas' net revenue because we believe it is useful in comparing the ongoing operating results of the combined company with pre-merger results of the two companies.
(B) Veritas' net revenue.
The amounts recorded as amortization of acquired product rights arise from prior acquisitions and are non-cash in nature. We exclude these expenses because we believe they are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred and are not directly related to the operation of our business.
(C) Amortization of acquired product rights.
 
Consists of bonuses related to the Veritas acquisition and executive sign-on bonuses for newly hired executives. We exclude these amounts because they arise from prior acquisitions and other infrequent events and we believe they are not directly related to the operation of our business. For the three and nine months ended December 30, 2006 and 2005, executive incentive bonuses were allocated as follows:
(D) Executive incentive bonuses.
 
. Consists of expenses for employee stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchase plan determined in accordance with APB 25 and SFAS 123(R) pre and post adoption of SFAS 123(R) on April 1, 2006, respectively. We exclude these stock-based compensation expenses because they are non-cash expenses that we believe are not reflective of ongoing operating results. Further, we believe it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123(R) to our results of operations. For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, stock-based compensation was allocated as follows:
(E) Stock-based compensation
 
These amounts arise from severance, benefits, outplacement services, and excess facilities resulting from our company restructurings and we believe they are not directly related to the operation of our business.
(F) Restructuring.
. Consists of expenses incurred for consulting services and other professional fees associated with the integration activities for our acquisition of Veritas. These expenses arose from a specific prior acquisition and we believe they are not directly related to the operation of our business. Operating expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2006 did not include integration expenses. For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005, integration expenses were allocated as follows:
(G) Integration
 
. The amounts recorded as amortization of other intangible assets arise from prior acquisitions and are non-cash in nature. We exclude these expenses because we believe they are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred and not directly related to the operation of our business.
(H) Amortization of other intangible assets
On May 12, 2005, we resolved the Altiris patent litigation matter with a cross-licensing agreement that resolved all legal claims between the companies. We exclude the amount of this settlement that was attributed to benefits in and prior to the period in which the settlement was reached because it arose from a specific litigation matter and we believe it is not directly related to the operation of our business.
(I) Patent settlement.
. We have equity investments in privately held companies for business and strategic purposes. We exclude the gain on sale of strategic investments because we believe it is not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred and is not directly related to the operation of our business.
(J) Gain on sale of strategic investments
. Prior to our acquisition of Veritas, Veritas accrued a $30 million penalty based on settlement discussions with the SEC. We include this settlement because we include the Veritas net loss, per note O below, and we do not believe this settlement was directly related to the operation of Veritas' business.
(K) Proposed Veritas SEC legal settlement
. The amounts recorded as acquired in-process research and development arise from prior acquisitions and are non-cash in nature. We exclude these expenses because we believe they are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred and not directly related to the operation of our business.
(L) Acquired in-process research and development
. During the September 2006 quarter, we sold our Milpitas land and buildings for a gain. We exclude the gain on sale of the building because we believe it is not reflective of ongoing operating results in the period incurred and is not directly related to the operation of our business.
(M) Gain on sale of assets
This amount adjusts the provision for income taxes to reflect the effect of the non-GAAP adjustments on non-GAAP operating income.
(N) Income tax effect on above items.
This amount represents Veritas net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2005. We include the Veritas net loss because we believe it is useful in comparing the ongoing operating results of the combined company with pre-merger results of the two companies.
(O) Veritas net loss.
 
We believe the non-GAAP revenue measures set forth above are useful to investors, and such items are used by our management, because revenue associated with Veritas deferred revenue that was excluded as a result of purchase accounting adjustments to fair value is reflective of ongoing operating results.
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.02
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a $1 billion share repurchase program. This open-ended program is effective immediately. Shares may be purchased from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Depending on market conditions and other factors, these purchases may be commenced or suspended from time to time without prior notice.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Jan. 24, 2007 
In January 2007, Symantec completed its $1 billion share repurchase program announced in January 2006. Earlier in 2006, Symantec completed the $1.5 billion share repurchase program announced in June 2006. Over the past eight quarters, Symantec has repurchased nearly $6 billion of its shares.
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in infrastructure software, enabling businesses and consumers to have confidence in a connected world. The company helps customers protect their infrastructure, information, and interactions by delivering software and services that address risks to security, availability, compliance, and performance. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in 40 countries. More information is available at www.symantec.com.
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in US dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
Symantec Authorizes $1 Billion Share Repurchase Program Page 2 of 2
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements regarding our planned share repurchase program, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to whether or not we will complete our share repurchase program during any particular time frame or at all and whether our cash and short term investments may be insufficient to fund our share repurchase program. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2006. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release.


