FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20070129170224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02.      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 23, 2007, Frank E. Dangeard, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Thomson, S.A., was appointed by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") as an independent director of the Company. A press release announcing Mr. Dangeard's appointment to the Board is attached as exhibit 99.01 hereto, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Non-employee members of the Board are paid a retainer under the 2000 Director Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Director Plan"). For the 2007 fiscal year, the annual retainer payable under the Director Plan is $50,000 and each committee member will also receive an annual payment of $10,000.
In addition, pursuant to the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, non-employee directors are eligible to annually receive a restricted stock unit ("RSU") award with a value of $180,000 on the first business day following the first regular Board meeting of each fiscal year. In connection with his appointment, Mr. Dangeard automatically received an initial RSU grant on January 24, 2007, representing a prorated amount based on the number of days from the date of his appointment to the Board through the date of the first regular Board meeting in fiscal year 2008. Mr. Dangeard's RSU grant will fully vest on January 24, 2008, as long as he serves on the Board on such date.
On the date of his appointment, Mr. Dangeard entered into the Company's standard form of Indemnity Agreement which provides for indemnification of the indemnitee to the full extent allowed by Delaware law.
On the date of his appointment, Mr. Dangeard was not appointed to any committees of the Board.
Item 9.01.      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced the appointment of Frank E. Dangeard, chairman and chief executive officer of Thomson S.A., a world leader in digital video technologies, to the Symantec board of directors, bringing the total number of directors on the board to 10.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Jan. 26, 2007 
"Frank brings a wealth of operational experience to help us guide our company forward," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and chief executive officer. "Additionally, he has a keen understanding of Europe and the overall global business and technology environment."
Dangeard joined Thomson S.A. in April 1997 as senior executive vice president. He became a member of the Thomson board in March 1999 and vice chairman of the board in July 2001. From 2002 to 2004, Dangeard served as senior executive vice president of France Telecom. Upon returning to Thomson, at the end of 2004, he became chairman and chief executive officer. During his tenure at Thomson, Dangeard laid the foundation for future high growth in digital media and technology business.
Prior to joining Thomson, Dangeard was managing director of SG Warburg & Co. Ltd and chairman of SBC Warburg France. Before joining SG Warburg & Co. Ltd, Dangeard was a lawyer with Sullivan & Cromwell LLP in New York and London.
Dangeard also serves on the board of French Electricity Company "Electricite de France" (EDF), mobile telecom operator Orange (France Telecom Group) and investment bank Calyon (Credit Agricole Group). He graduated from the cole des Hautes Etudes Commercialesthe Paris Institut d'Etudes Politiques and from the Harvard Law School. Dangeard is a member of the New York Bar and splits his time between France and the United States.
,
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in infrastructure software, enabling businesses and consumers to have confidence in a connected world. The company helps customers protect their infrastructure, information, and interactions by delivering software and services that address risks to security, availability, compliance, and performance.
 
Symantec Appoints Frank E. Dangeard To The Board Of Directors Page 2 of 2
Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in 40 countries. More information is available at www.symantec.com.
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.


