FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20071029160158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 23, 2007, Geraldine B. Laybourne, Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Oxygen Media Corporation, was appointed by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") as an independent director of the Company. Ms. Laybourne's appointment is effective as of January 1, 2008. A press release announcing Ms. Laybourne's appointment to the Board is attached as exhibit 99.01 hereto, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, non-employee directors are eligible to annually receive a restricted stock unit ("RSU") award with a value of $180,000 on the first business day following the first regular Board meeting of each fiscal year. Ms. Laybourne will receive an initial RSU grant on January 2, 2008, the first business day following the date of her appointment to the Board, representing a prorated amount based on the number of days from the date of her appointment to the Board through the date of the first regular Board meeting in fiscal year 2009. Ms. Laybourne's RSU grant will fully vest on January 2, 2009, as long as she serves on the Board on such date.
On the effective date of her appointment, Ms. Laybourne is expected to enter into the Company's standard form of Indemnity Agreement which provides for indemnification of the indemnitee to the full extent allowed by Delaware law.
On the date of her appointment, Ms. Laybourne was not appointed to any committees of the Board.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced the appointment of Geraldine Laybourne, founder, chairwoman and chief executive officer, Oxygen Media, LLC to its board of directors effective Jan. 1, 2008, bringing the total number of directors on the board to 10.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Oct. 29, 2007 
Oxygen Media is a cable television network that provides programming and Web sites targeted to younger women. Founded in 1998, Oxygen is currently available in more than 74 million households. The network recently announced it is being acquired by NBC Universal.
"Gerry's in-depth understanding of consumers, coupled with her experience in managing within small and large companies will be a great complement to the board," said John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and chief executive officer. "We're excited to have Gerry join the board."
Prior to founding Oxygen Media Corp., Laybourne was president of Disney and ABC Cable Networks. In this role Laybourne was responsible for overseeing cable programming for the Walt Disney Co. and its ABC subsidiary. While there, she was also in charge of developing future television programming for cable and other platforms.
Prior to joining Disney and ABC Cable Networks, Laybourne was the vice chair and president of Nickelodeon and Nick at Nite. During her 16-year tenure, Laybourne and her team were responsible for creating and building the Nickelodeon brand and, in 1985, for launching Nick at Nite the successful primetime line-up of retro sitcoms. Under her leadership, Nickelodeon became the top-rated 24-hour cable programming service and won several notable honors, including Emmys, Peabodys, CableACE and Parents' Choice awards, among many others.
In 1996, Laybourne was ranked number one among the 50 most influential women in the entertainment industry by and was named one of the 25 most influential people in America by magazine.
The Hollywood Reporter
Time
 
Symantec Appoints Geraldine Laybourne to its Board of Directors Page 2 of 2
Laybourne currently serves on the corporate boards of Oxygen Media Corp., Insight Communications Co., Inc. and Move, Inc. Additionally, she serves on the nonprofit boards of Vassar College, the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, The National Council for Families and Television and Cable Positive. She graduated from Vassar College and earned her Master of Science degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in infrastructure software, enabling businesses and consumers to have confidence in a connected world. The company helps customers protect their infrastructure, information, and interactions by delivering software and services that address risks to security, availability, compliance, and performance. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in 40 countries. More information is available at www.symantec.com.
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.


