FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20070119204328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) and (c) On January 18, 2007, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") appointed George W. Harrington as Senior Vice President, Finance, and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, and in this capacity Mr. Harrington will serve as the Company's principal accounting officer. Stephen C. Markowski, who served as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer until January 18, 2007, will continue in his current position as Vice President of Finance of the Company.
Mr. Harrington joined the Company as Senior Vice President, Finance Operations in May 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Harrington had served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of BMC Software, Inc., a software solutions provider, from March 2004 to September 2005, and had served in a variety of senior finance roles at International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), a global information technology company, since 1981. As vice president of Finance for IBM Software Group, Mr. Harrington was the senior executive responsible for all financial and IT aspects of IBM's $13 billion software organization. Mr. Harrington also served as the Chief Accountant for IBM Corporation. In addition, he served as vice president, Finance for IBM Americas, responsible for all financial aspects of a $38 billion IBM division. Mr. Harrington also served in a range of finance leadership positions for IBM's Americas, Asia Pacific and European operations. Mr. Harrington is 55 years old.
Mr. Harrington entered into an employment agreement with the Company, dated April 10, 2006, pursuant to which he: (i) was given the title of Senior Vice President, Finance Operations; (ii) was provided with an annual base salary of $300,000; (iii) became eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Bonus Plan, with an annual target bonus set at 60% of his annual base salary; (iv) became eligible to participate in the Company's employee benefits plan and programs; (v) was granted an option to purchase 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock; (vi) became eligible for reimbursement for relocation costs incurrent in connection with his joining the Company, which costs were reimbursed by the Company in fiscal year 2007; and (vii) became entitled to all of the benefits made available to other executives of the Company at his grade level. A copy of Mr. Harrington's employment agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.01 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with his appointment as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer, Mr. Harrington will enter into the Company's standard form of Indemnity Agreement which provides for indemnification of the indemnitee to the full extent allowed by Delaware law, and will participate in the Company's Executive Retention Plan or any successor plan.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.01
April 10, 2006
George Harrington
Dear George,
On behalf of Symantec Corporation, I am pleased to offer you employment as Senior Vice President, Finance Operations. In this position you will report directly to me, and be located in our Cupertino, California office. Your starting annual base salary will be $300,000.00 and you will be eligible for an annual focal (performance) review. At this rate of compensation, you would be eligible, at 60% of company and individual performance, to an additional $180,000.000 of annual base salary, which would bring your total target annual cash to $480,000.000.
Additionally, you will be eligible to participate in a wide variety of employee benefits plans including Symantec's Stock Purchase Plan, matching 401(k) savings and investment plan, health insurance and many other benefits. Information regarding these benefits accompanies this letter and will be reviewed with you in detail on your first day of employment.
We will recommend to the Board of Directors that you be granted an option to purchase 100,000 shares of Symantec's common stock under our 1996 Stock Option Plan. The price of the stock will be the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market on the last trading day prior to the option grant date, as reported by NASDAQ. Typically, option grants are approved on the fourth day of the month following the start of your employment. The option will vest over a four-year period starting from your first day of employment, at the rate of 25% of the option at the end of your first year of employment, and on a monthly basis thereafter.
We will also provide you with the Symantec Executive Relocation benefit, to relocate you to Cupertino, CA. We will also do a buyout of your home in Houston, Texas.
This letter does not constitute a contract of employment for any specific period of time but will create an "employment at will" relationship. This means that the employment relationship may be terminated by either party for any reason at any time. Any statements or representation to the contrary (and, indeed any statements contradicting any provisions of this letter) are superseded by this offer. Participation in any of Symantec's stock option or benefit programs is not to be regarded as assurance of continued employment for any particular period of time. Any modification of this form must be in writing and signed by the company CEO.
Please note that to comply with regulations adopted in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), we require that you present documentation demonstrating that you have the authorization to work in the United States on your first working day. If you have any questions about this requirement, which applies to U.S. citizens and non-U.S. citizens alike, please contact Rebecca Ranninger in the Human Resources department.
Enclosed are two documents that must be signed and returned with your signed offer letter or on your first day of employment: the Symantec Confidentiality and Intellectual Property Agreement and the Symantec Code of Conduct. The Confidentiality and Intellectual Property Agreement requires that you hold in confidence any proprietary information received as an employee of Symantec and to assign to us any inventions that you make while employed by Symantec. We wish to impress upon you that you are not to bring with you any confidential or proprietary material of any former employer or to violate any other obligation to your former employers, and that the Agreement that you will be asked to sign contains a representation by you that you have not brought nor will you use any such material at Symantec. The Code of Conduct governs the conduct of all Symantec employees; please read the Code and then sign the attached Acknowledgment form.
 
George Harrington Page 2
The offer described in this letter will be valid for three (3) working days from the date of this letter unless we notify you otherwise. Please confirm your acceptance of this offer by signing this letter in the space indicated, and forwarding one (1) signed original to Symantec in the pre-addressed envelope provided, or fax the signed letter to followed by mailing of a signed original letter prior to your first working day. This offer is contingent upon successful completion of your background checks.
Becky Ranninger,
George, I believe that Symantec will continue to be a leading force in the information security and availability industry and hope that you will accept this offer and join us in building the future. I look forward to working with you!
Enclosures (please return with the signed offer letter):


