FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20071203090621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
     On November 29, 2007, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") borrowed $200 million under an existing five-year $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, dated July 12, 2006, between the Company, the lenders party (the "Lenders") thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Citicorp USA, Inc., as Syndication Agent, Bank of America, N.A., Morgan Stanley Bank and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as Co-Documentation Agents, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Joint Bookrunners and Joint Lead Arrangers (the "Credit Agreement"). These funds will be used to pay a portion of the purchase price for the Company's acquisition of Vontu, a private company that provides data loss prevention solutions. Prior to drawing down this revolving loan, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement.
     Revolving loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at the Company's option, at either a rate equal to the bank's base rate or a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin based on our leverage ratio (the "Adjusted LIBO Rate"), as defined in the Credit Agreement. Under the Credit Agreement, the Company may select an interest period of one, two, three or six months (or with the consent of each of the Lenders, nine or twelve months) for each loan if the Adjusted LIBO Rate is chosen. If, prior to the expiration of any such interest period, the Company elects not to pay down the principal, the Company may select a new interest period and a new rate of interest will apply. To the extent the Company does not pay down the principal or select a new interest period, interest will accrue on all or a portion of the then-outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to the bank's base rate. The Company has selected an initial interest period of twelve months. The rate of interest on this $200 million revolving loan for the selected interest period is 4.707500 percent.
     Payments of the principal amounts of revolving loans under the Credit Agreement are due no later than July 11, 2011, subject to extension as provided for in the Credit Agreement. Accrued interest with respect to such principal amounts is payable in arrears at the end of the applicable interest period but at least every three months or, if the applicable rate of interest on any principal amount under the Credit Agreement is the bank's base rate, on the last day of each March, June, September and December. The Company may optionally prepay loans under the Credit Agreement at any time, without penalty, subject to reimbursement of certain costs in the case of borrowings that bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
     The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default under which the Company's payment obligations may be accelerated, including among others, non payment of principal, interest or other amounts when due, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, violation of covenants (including a covenant that the Company maintain a ratio of debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) of not more than 3 to 1)), cross defaults with certain other indebtedness, certain undischarged judgments, bankruptcy, insolvency or inability to pay debts, or a Change of Control (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by certain of the Company's U.S. subsidiaries pursuant to a Subsidiary Guaranty attached to the Credit Agreement.
     In the ordinary course of their respective businesses, certain of the Lenders and the other parties to the Credit Agreement and their respective affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in commercial banking, investment banking, financial advisory or other services with the Company and its affiliates for which they have in the past and/or may in the future receive customary compensation and expense reimbursement. Further, Citibank, N.A., an affiliate of a Lender, is party to certain convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions with the Company.
     The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.01 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 10.01
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES:
Schedule 1.01  Subsidiaries Excluded from Material Subsidiaries
Schedule 2.01  Commitments
Schedule 3.06  Disclosed Matters
Schedule 6.01  Liens
Schedule 6.03  Subsidiary Indebtedness
EXHIBITS:
Exhibit A  Form of Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit B  Form of Revolving Note
Exhibit C  Form of Opinion of Borrower's Counsel
Exhibit D  Form of Guaranty
 
          CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of July 12, 2006, among SYMANTEC CORPORATION as Borrower, the LENDERS party hereto, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Administrative Agent.
          The parties hereto agree as follows:
          SECTION 1.01 Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
     "ABR", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
     "Adjusted LIBO Rate" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
     "Administrative Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.
     "Administrative Questionnaire" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
     "Affiliate" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
     "Alternate Base Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Base CD Rate in effect on such day plus 1% and (c) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus / of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Base CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Base CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
1
2
     "Anniversary Date" means July 12, 2007 and July 12 in each succeeding calendar year occurring during the term of this Agreement.
     "Applicable Percentage" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
 
     "Applicable Rate" means, for any day, with respect to any Eurodollar Revolving Loan, or with respect to the facility fees or utilization fees payable hereunder, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth across from the caption "Applicable Margin", "Facility Fee " or "Utilization Fee" in the table below, as the case may be, based upon the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, as more fully described below.
     The Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall be determined on the basis of the most recent certificate of the Borrower to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b), as the case may be, for the most recently ended fiscal quarter or fiscal year of the Borrower, as applicable, and any change in the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall be effective one Business Day after the date on which the Administrative Agent receives such certificate, provided, that until the Borrower has delivered to the Administrative Agent such certificate pursuant to Section 5.01(b) in respect of the first fiscal quarter of fiscal 2007, the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall be deemed to be at Level 3; provided, further, that for so long as the Borrower has not delivered such certificate when due pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b), as the case may be, the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall be deemed to be at Level 4 until the respective certificate is delivered to the Administrative Agent.
     "Approved Fund" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
     "Assessment Rate" means, for any day, the annual assessment rate in effect on such day that is payable by a member of the Bank Insurance Fund classified as "well capitalized" and within supervisory subgroup "B" (or a comparable successor risk classification) within the meaning of 12 C.F.R. Part 327 (or any successor provision) to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for insurance by such Corporation of time deposits made in dollars at the offices of such member in the United States; provided that if, as a result of any change in any law, rule or regulation, it is no longer possible to determine the Assessment Rate as aforesaid, then the Assessment Rate shall be such annual rate as shall be determined by the Administrative Agent to be representative of the cost of such insurance to the Lenders.
     "Assignment and Assumption" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by
 
Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
     "Availability Period" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
     "Base CD Rate" means the sum of (a) the Three Month Secondary CD Rate multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate plus (b) the Assessment Rate.
     "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
     "Borrower" means Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
     "Borrowing" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (b) a Swingline Loan.
     "Borrowing Request" means a request by the Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
     "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; provided that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
     "Capital Lease Obligations" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
     "Change in Control" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), of Equity Interests representing more than 35% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Borrower; (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Borrower by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) the acquisition of direct or indirect Control of the Borrower by any Person or group.
     "Change in Law" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the
 
interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.15(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
     "Class", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans.
     "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
     "Commitment" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Swingline Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.09 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $1,000,000,000.
     "Commitment Increase" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.20(a) hereof.
     "Consolidated EBITDA" means, with respect to any Person for any period, an amount equal to (a) Consolidated Net Income (before discontinued operations) of such Person for such period plus (b) the sum of, in each case to the extent included in the calculation of such Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period in accordance with GAAP, but without duplication, (i) any provision for income taxes, (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense, (iii) depreciation, depletion, and amortization of intangibles or financing or acquisition costs, (iv) all non-cash charges and non-cash losses for such period (including, but not limited to, stock option expense and restructuring and impairment charges) and (v)(A) for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2005, $136,300,000, (B) for the fiscal quarter ending December 30, 2005, $104,200,000, and (C) for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006, $61,300,000, (such amounts being the amounts of deferred revenue written off as part of accounting adjustments in connection with the Borrower's acquisition of VERITAS Software Corporation and its subsidiaries) minus (c) the sum of, in each case to the extent included in the calculation of Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period in accordance with GAAP, but without duplication, (i) any credit for income tax, (ii) any amounts of interest income, (iii) gains from extraordinary items for such period, (iv) any aggregate net gain from the sale, exchange or other disposition of capital assets by such Person, (v) cash payments for previously reserved charges and (vi) any other non-cash gains which have been added in determining Consolidated Net Income.
 
     "Consolidated Funded Debt" of any person means (a) all obligations of such person that would be classified as indebtedness in accordance with GAAP, (b) obligations of such person with respect to letters of credit, whether drawn or undrawn, contingent or otherwise and (c) all guarantees or other contingent obligations of such person with respect to any indebtedness of others, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
     "Consolidated Interest Expense" means, for any period, total cash interest expense (including that attributable to Capital Lease Obligations) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers' acceptance financing and net costs under Swap Agreements in respect of interest rates to the extent such net costs are allocable to such period in accordance with GAAP).
     "Consolidated Leverage Ratio" means, as of the last day of any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such period.
     "Consolidated Net Income" means, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; provided that there shall be excluded (a) the income (or deficit) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower or is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) the income (or deficit) of any Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Borrower) in which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any such income is actually received by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in the form of dividends or similar distributions and (c) the undistributed earnings of any Subsidiary of the Borrower to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such Subsidiary is not at the time permitted by the terms of any contractual obligation (other than under any Loan Document) or requirement of law applicable to such Subsidiary.
     "Control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto.
     "Default" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
     "Disclosed Matters" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in Schedule 3.06.
     "dollars" or "$" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
 
     "Domestic Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
     "Effective Date" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
     "Environmental Laws" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters.
     "Environmental Liability" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
     "Equity Interests" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest.
     "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
     "ERISA Affiliate" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
     "ERISA Event" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30 day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal
 
from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
     "Eurodollar", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
     "Event of Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
     "Excluded Taxes" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.19(b)), any United States withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.17(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.17(a).
     "Federal Funds Effective Rate" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
     "Financial Officer" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower.
     "Foreign Lender" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
 
     "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
     "Governmental Authority" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
     "Guarantee" of or by any Person (the "guarantor") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; provided, that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business, or customary indemnification obligations entered into in connection with any acquisition or disposition of assets or of other entities (other than to the extent that the primary obligations that are the subject of such Guarantee would be considered Indebtedness hereunder).
     "Guarantor" means any Material Subsidiary of the Borrower that has delivered the Guaranty pursuant to Section 4.01(e) or a Guaranty Supplement pursuant to Section 5.10 hereof.
     "Guaranty" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.01(e) hereof.
     "Guaranty Supplement" has the meaning set forth in the Guaranty.
     "Hazardous Materials" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
     "Indebtedness" of any Person at any date means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than current trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of such Person's business), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all
 
indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (f) all obligations of such Person, contingent or otherwise, as an account party or applicant under or in respect of acceptances, letters of credit, surety bonds or similar arrangements, (g) the liquidation value of all redeemable preferred capital stock of such Person, (h) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above, (i) all obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (h) above secured by (or for which the holder of such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become liable for the payment of such obligation, and (j) for the purposes of Section 7(h) only, the net obligations of such Person in respect of all Swap Agreements entered into with a particular counterparty. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness expressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
     "Indemnified Taxes" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
     "Information Memorandum" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated June, 2006 relating to the Borrower and the Transactions.
     "Interest Election Request" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.08.
     "Interest Payment Date" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan (other than a Swingline Loan), the last day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period, and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Loan is required to be repaid.
     "Interest Period" means with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months (or, with the consent of each Lender, a shorter period, or nine or twelve months) thereafter, as the Borrower may elect; provided, that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which
 
there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
     "Lenders" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender.
     "LIBO Rate" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 3750 of the Dow Jones Market Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, or any successor to or substitute for such Service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
     "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
     "Loan Documents" means this Agreement, the Notes (if any) and the Guaranty and any supplements to the Guaranty delivered pursuant to Section 5.10 hereof.
     "Loan Parties" means the Borrower and the Guarantors.
     "Loans" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
     "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or
 
any of the other Loan Documents or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
     "Material Indebtedness" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements, of any one or more of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in a principal amount exceeding $50,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Borrower or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.
     "Material Subsidiary" means, at any date of determination, a Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than as set forth on Schedule 1.01) that, either individually or together with its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, has total assets exceeding $50,000,000 as of the most recent available quarterly or year-end financial statements; provided however that a Domestic Subsidiary shall not be a Material Subsidiary if the provision of a Guaranty by it would give rise to or increase the amount includable in income of the Company pursuant to Section 956 of the Code.
     "Maturity Date" means July 11, 2011.
     "Measurement Period" means, at any date of determination, the most recently completed four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower on or immediately prior to such date.
     "Minority Interests" means any shares of stock of any class of a Subsidiary (other than directors' qualifying shares as required by law) that are not owned by the Borrower and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries.
     "Multiemployer Plan" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
     "Other Taxes" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Other Taxes shall not include any Excluded Taxes.
     "Participant" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
     "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
     "Permitted Encumbrances" means:
     (a) Liens imposed by law for taxes that are not yet due or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
 
     (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, landlord's, repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
     (c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
     (d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
     (e) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VII or securing appeal or other surety bonds relating to such judgments;
     (f) Liens arising under repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, securities lending and borrowing agreements and similar transactions;
     (g) Liens arising from precautionary filings in respect of operating leases;
     (h) Liens arising from leases, licenses, subleases or sublicenses which do not (A) interfere in any material respect with the business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or (B) secure any Indebtedness;
     (i) Liens on cash collateral or government securities to secure obligations under Swap Agreements and letters of credit, provided, that the aggregate value of such collateral so pledged by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries does not at any time exceed $25 million in the aggregate;
     (j) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods;
     (k) Liens securing obligations (other than obligations representing Indebtedness for borrowed money) under operating or similar agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business;
     (l) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
     that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
 
     "Person" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
     "Plan" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
     "Prime Rate" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its prime rate in effect at its office located at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
     "Register" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
     "Related Parties" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
     "Required Lenders" means, at any time, Lenders having at least 51% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments or, if the Commitments shall have been terminated, holding at least 51% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the total Revolving Credit Exposures at such time.
     "Revolving Credit Exposure" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its Swingline Exposure at such time.
     "Revolving Loan" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.03.
     "Statutory Reserve Rate" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject (a) with respect to the Base CD Rate, for new negotiable nonpersonal time deposits in dollars of over $100,000 with maturities approximately equal to three months and (b) with respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute Eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
 
     "subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person (the "parent") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent and which is required by GAAP to be consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of the parent.
     "Subsidiary" means any subsidiary of the Borrower.
     "Swap Agreement" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; provided that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement.
     "Swingline Exposure" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swingline Exposure at such time.
     "Swingline Lender" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
     "Swingline Loan" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.05.
     "Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
     "Three Month Secondary CD Rate" means, for any day, the secondary market rate for three month certificates of deposit reported as being in effect on such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day) by the Board through the public information telephone line of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (which rate will, under the current practices of the Board, be published in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519) during the week following such day) or, if such rate is not so reported on such day or such next preceding Business Day, the average of the secondary market quotations for three month certificates of deposit of major money center banks in New York City received at approximately 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day) by the
 
Administrative Agent from three negotiable certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by it.
     "Transactions" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof.
     "Type", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, the Alternate Base Rate.
     "Withdrawal Liability" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
          SECTION 1.02 Classification of Loans and Borrowings. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Loan") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Borrowing") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing").
          SECTION 1.03 Terms Generally. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
          SECTION 1.04 Accounting Terms; GAAP. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose),
 
regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
          SECTION 2.01 Commitments. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
          SECTION 2.02 Loans and Borrowings. (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; provided that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
          (b) Subject to Section 2.14, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; provided that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
          (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000; provided that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments. Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; provided that there shall not at any time be more than a total of five Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
          (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
 
          SECTION 2.03 Requests for Revolving Borrowings. To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
     (i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
     (ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
     (iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing;
     (iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
     (v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.07.
          If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
          SECTION 2.04 [].
Reserved
          SECTION 2.05 Swingline Loans. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $20,000,000 or (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments; provided that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
          (b) To request a Swingline Loan, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 1:00 p.m. New York City time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and
 
shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from the Borrower. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to the Borrower by means of a credit to the general deposit account of the Borrower with the Swingline Lender by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.
          (c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.07 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from the Borrower (or other party on behalf of the Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; provided that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
          SECTION 2.06 [].
Reserved
          SECTION 2.07 Funding of Borrowings. (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 2:00 p.m., New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders; provided that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.05. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to
 
an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City and designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request.
          (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
          SECTION 2.08 Interest Elections. (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefore, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
          (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower.
          (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
     (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
 
     (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
     (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
     (iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
          If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
          (d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
          (e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
          SECTION 2.09 Termination and Reduction of Commitments. (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
          (b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; provided that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.11, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
          (c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; provided that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction
 
of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
          SECTION 2.10 Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt. (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan on the Maturity Date, and (ii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the first date after such Swingline Loan is made that is the 15th or last day of a calendar month and is at least two Business Days after such Swingline Loan is made; provided that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing is made, the Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans then outstanding.
          (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
          (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
          (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein (absent manifest error); provided that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
          (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns in substantially the form of Exhibit B attached hereto. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
          SECTION 2.11 Prepayment of Loans. (a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
          (b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing,
 
not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment or (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; provided that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.09, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.09. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.13 and any costs incurred as contemplated by Section 2.16.
          SECTION 2.12 Fees. (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the relevant percentage set forth across from the heading "Facility Fee" in the definition of "Applicable Rate" on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the date hereof to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; provided that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued facility fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; provided that any facility fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
          (b) For each day on which the outstanding Loans exceed 50% of the Commitments, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender, a utilization fee equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (A) the product of (1) the aggregate outstanding Loans on such day and (2) the relevant percentage set forth across from the heading "Utilization Fee" in the definition of "Applicable Rate" by (B) 360. This Utilization Fee shall be paid quarterly in arrears on the first Business Day of each January, April, July and October of each year, and on the Maturity Date.
          (c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
 
          (d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of facility fees and participation fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
          SECTION 2.13 Interest. (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing (including each Swingline Loan) shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate.
          (b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Loan, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the relevant percentage set forth across from the heading "Applicable Rate".
          (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, at all times when a Default has occurred hereunder and is continuing, all amounts outstanding hereunder shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving Loans, upon termination of the Commitments; provided that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefore, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
          (e) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
          SECTION 2.14 Alternate Rate of Interest. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
          (a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
          (b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
 
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective, and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted.
          SECTION 2.15 Increased Costs. (a) If any Change in Law shall:
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate); or
     (ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
          (b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
          (c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
          (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; provided that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 270 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or
 
reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefore; provided further that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 270-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
          SECTION 2.16 Break Funding Payments. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.11(b) and is revoked in accordance therewith), or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.19, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefore (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the Eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
          SECTION 2.17 Taxes. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; provided that if the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
          (b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
          (c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefore, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (including
 
Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
          (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
          (e) Any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
     (i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States of America is a party;
     (ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-ECI;
     (iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
     (iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
     In addition, each Lender shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
          (f) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.17, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.17 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses
 
of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); provided, that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
          SECTION 2.18 Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs. (a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under Section 2.15, 2.16 or 2.17, or otherwise) prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, except payments to be made directly to the Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars.
          (b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
          (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in and Swingline Loans; provided that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery,
 
without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
          (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
          (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
          SECTION 2.19 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.17, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
          (b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its
 
interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.15 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.17, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
          SECTION 2.20 Increase in the Aggregate Commitments
          . (a) The Borrower may, not more than once in any year, by notice to the Administrative Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Commitments be increased by a minimum amount equal to $100,000,000 or an integral multiple of $100,000,000 in excess thereof (each a "Commitment Increase"), to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled Maturity Date then in effect (the "Increase Date") as specified in the related notice to the Administrative Agent; provided, however, that no Event of Default, or event that with the giving of notice or passage of time or both would constitute an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing as of the date of such request or as of the applicable Increase Date, or shall occur as a result thereof and, provided, further, that at no time shall the total aggregate Commitments hereunder exceed $1,500,000,000.
          (b) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of a request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Commitments (the "Commitment Date"). Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "Increasing Lender") shall give written notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Commitment. If the Lenders notify the Administrative Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Commitments by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Lenders willing to participate therein in such amounts as are agreed between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. The failure of any Lender to respond shall be deemed to be a refusal of such Lender to increase its Commitment.
          (c) Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower as to the amount, if any, by which the Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase. If the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Borrower may extend offers to one or
 
more Eligible Assignees to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; provided, however, that the Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $25,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
          (d) On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.20(c) (each such Eligible Assignee and each Eligible Assignee that agrees to an extension of the Maturity Date in accordance with Section 2.21(c), an "Assuming Lender") shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.20(b)) as of such Increase Date; provided, however, that the Administrative Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
          (i) (A) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower or the Executive Committee of such Board approving the Commitment Increase and the corresponding modifications to this Agreement and (B) an opinion of counsel for the Borrower (which may be in-house counsel) in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
          (ii) an assumption agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, in form and substance satisfactory to the Assuming Lender, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (each an "Assumption Agreement"), duly executed by such Assuming Lender, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower; and
          (iii) confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Commitment in a writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
          (e) On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in Section 2.20(d), in the event any Revolving Loans are then outstanding, (i) each relevant Increasing Lender and Assuming Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent such amounts in immediately available funds as the Administrative Agent shall determine, for the benefit of the other Lenders, as being required in order to cause, after giving effect to the applicable Commitment Increase and the application of such amounts to make payments to such other Lenders, the Revolving Loans to be held ratably by all Lenders as of such date in accordance with their respective Commitments (after giving effect to the Commitment Increase), (ii) the Borrower shall be deemed to have prepaid and reborrowed all outstanding Revolving Loans made to it as of such Commitment Increase Date (with each such borrowing to consist of Revolving Loans, with related Interest Periods if applicable, specified in a notice delivered by the Borrower in accordance with the requirements of Section 2.02) and (iii) the Borrower shall pay to the Lenders the amounts, if any, payable under Section 2.16 as a result of such prepayment.
          SECTION 2.21 Extension of Maturity Date
 
          . (a) At least 45 days but not more than 60 days prior to the next Anniversary Date, the Borrower, by written notice to the Administrative Agent, may request an extension of the Maturity Date in effect at such time by one calendar year from its then scheduled expiration. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, not later than 30 days prior to such next Anniversary Date, notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension. If any Lender shall fail to notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Maturity Date at least 30 days prior to the next Anniversary Date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Declining Lender with respect to such request. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower not later than 25 days prior to such next Anniversary Date of the decision of the Lenders regarding the Borrower's request for an extension of the Maturity Date.
          (b) If all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.21, the Maturity Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at such next Anniversary Date (the "Extension Date"), be extended for one calendar year; provided that on each Extension Date, no Event of Default, or event that with the giving of notice or passage of time or both would constitute an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing, or shall occur as a consequence thereof. If less than all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.21, the Maturity Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each an "Extending Lender") but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a "Declining Lender"). To the extent that the Maturity Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.21 and the Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.21 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Commitment of such Declining Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Maturity Date without any further notice or other action by the Borrower, such Lender or any other Person and any outstanding Loans, together with accrued and unpaid interest, fees and other amounts due to such Declining Lender shall be paid in full on such unextended Maturity Date; provided that such Declining Lender's rights under Sections 2.15, 2.17 and 9.03 shall survive the Maturity Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date. It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Borrower for any requested extension of the Maturity Date.
          (c) If there are any Declining Lenders, the Borrower may arrange for one or more Extending Lenders or other Eligible Assignees (each such Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to assume a Declining Lender's Commitment as of the applicable Extension Date being an "Assuming Lender") to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Declining Lender's Commitment and all of the obligations of such Declining Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Declining Lender; provided, however, that the amount of the Commitment of any such Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $50,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such Declining Lender is less than $50,000,000, in which case such Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; and provided further that:
          (i) any such Extending Lender or Assuming Lender shall have paid to such Declining Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued
 
and unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Loans, if any, of such Declining Lender plus (B) any accrued but unpaid fees owing to such Declining Lender as of the effective date of such assignment;
          (ii) all additional costs reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities payable to such Declining Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Declining Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have been paid to such Declining Lender; and
          (iii) with respect to any such Assuming Lender, the applicable processing and recordation fee required under Section 9.04 for such assignment shall have been paid;
          provided further that such Declining Lender's rights under Sections 2.15, 2.17 and 9.03 shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution. At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent an assumption agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (an "Assumption Agreement"), duly executed by such Assuming Lender, such Declining Lender, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, (B) any such Extending Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment and (C) each Declining Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.21 shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent any Note or Notes held by such Declining Lender. Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Extending Lender or Assuming Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Declining Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Declining Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
          (d) If all of the Extending and Assuming Lenders (after giving effect to any assignments and assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.21) consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by written consent pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.21, by execution and delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Borrower, and, so long as no Event of Default, or event that with the giving of notice or passage of time or both would constitute an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing as of such Extension Date, or shall occur as a consequence thereof, the Maturity Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional one-year period as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.21, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the "Maturity Date" shall, with respect to each Extending Lender and each Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Maturity Date as so extended. Promptly following each Extension Date, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Maturity Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Extending Lender and each such Assuming Lender.
 
          The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
          SECTION 3.01 Organization; Powers. Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required.
          SECTION 3.02 Authorization; Enforceability. The Transactions are within the Borrower's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
          SECTION 3.03 Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate any applicable law or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries other than such violations, defaults or payments that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
          SECTION 3.04 Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change. (a) The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows as of and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, reported on by KPMG LLP, independent public accountants. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above.
          (b) Since March 31, 2006, there has been no material adverse change in the business, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
          SECTION 3.05 Properties. (a) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in or rights to use, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes.
          (b) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 3.06 Litigation and Environmental Matters. (a) There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against or affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (i) that could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters) or (ii) that involve this Agreement, any other Loan Document or the Transactions.
          (b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
          (c) Since the date of this Agreement, there has been no change in the status of the Disclosed Matters that, individually or in the aggregate, that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 3.07 Compliance with Laws and Agreements. Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
          SECTION 3.08 Investment and Holding Company Status. The Borrower is not (a) an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940 or (b) a "holding company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
          SECTION 3.09 Taxes. Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such
 
Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 3.10 ERISA. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 3.11 Disclosure. The Borrower has disclosed to the Lenders all agreements and instruments to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Information Memorandum nor any of the other reports, financial statements, certificates or other information furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), taken as a whole, contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
          SECTION 4.01 Effective Date. The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
          (a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
          (b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of Fenwick & West LLP, counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto. The Borrower hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinion.
          (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Borrower, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Borrower, this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or the Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
 
          (d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed on behalf of the Borrower by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Borrower, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
          (e) The Administrative Agent shall have received a guaranty (the "Guaranty") in substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto, executed by each of the Material Subsidiaries.
          (f) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out of pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder.
          The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
          SECTION 4.02 Each Credit Event. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and the effectiveness of any Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.20 or any Extension of the Maturity Date pursuant to Section 2.21, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
          (a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in this Agreement (other than as set forth in Section 3.04(b) hereof) and the other Loan Documents shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing.
          (b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
          Each Borrowing, Commitment Increase and Extension of the Maturity Date shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
          Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
          SECTION 5.01 Financial Statements; Ratings Change and Other Information. The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
     (a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by KPMG LLP, or other
 
independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
     (b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
     (c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 5.09 and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate;
     (d) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) above, a certificate of the accounting firm that reported on such financial statements stating whether they obtained knowledge during the course of their examination of such financial statements of any Default (which certificate may be limited to the extent required by accounting rules or guidelines);
     (e) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Borrower to its shareholders generally, as the case may be, provided, that such information shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which such information has been posted on the Borrower's website on the Internet at http://www.symantec.com (or any successor page) or at http://www.sec.gov; and
     (f) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Borrower or any Subsidiary,
 
or compliance with the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.
          SECTION 5.02 Notices of Material Events. The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following:
          (a) the occurrence of any Default;
          (b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
          (c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
          (d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
          Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
          SECTION 5.03 Existence; Conduct of Business. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business; provided that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.02.
          SECTION 5.04 Payment of Obligations. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 5.05 Maintenance of Properties; Insurance. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain insurance (either by way of self-insurance or with financially sound and reputable insurance companies) in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations.
          SECTION 5.06 Books and Records; Inspection Rights. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true
 
and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities as and to the extent required by GAAP. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and independent accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested.
          SECTION 5.07 Compliance with Laws. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 5.08 Use of Proceeds. The proceeds of the Loans will be used only for general corporate purposes and stock repurchases under stock repurchase programs approved by the board of directors of the Borrower. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X, other that the repurchase of stock of the Borrower in accordance with the stock repurchase programs approved by the board of directors of the Borrower.
          SECTION 5.09 Consolidated Leverage Ratio. The Borrower shall maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower, commencing with the first fiscal quarter of the Borrower following the Effective Date, a Consolidated Leverage Ratio for the Measurement Period ending on such day, of not more than 3.0:1.0.
          SECTION 5.10 Additional Guarantors. If, as of the date of the most recently available financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b), as the case may be, any Person shall have become a Material Subsidiary, then the Borrower shall, within 30 days after delivery of such financial statements, cause such Material Subsidiary to enter into a Guaranty Supplement, unless (a) such Material Subsidiary is a direct or indirect subsidiary of any Person that is not a Domestic Subsidiary or (b) in the case of any Person who shall become a Material Subsidiary as a result of an acquisition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the execution of such a counterpart would violate any agreement to which such Material Subsidiary shall be party (and which was not entered into upon or following such acquisition).
          Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
 
          SECTION 6.01 Liens. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect of any thereof, except:
     (a) Permitted Encumbrances;
     (b) any Lien on any property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.01; provided that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
     (c) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; provided that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
     (d) Liens on fixed or capital assets acquired, constructed or improved by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; provided that (i) such security interests and the Indebtedness secured thereby are incurred prior to or within 90 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement, (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed 100% of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such fixed or capital assets and (iii) such security interests shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and
     (e) other Liens in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50 million.
          SECTION 6.02 Fundamental Changes. i) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets, or all or substantially all of the stock of any of its Subsidiaries (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing:
     (i) any Person may merge into the Borrower in a transaction in which the Borrower is the surviving corporation;
     (ii) any Person may merge into any Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Subsidiary;
 
     (iii) any Subsidiary may sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of its assets to the Borrower or to another Subsidiary;
     (iv) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if the Borrower determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Borrower and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders; and
     (v) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may sell any Subsidiary (other than a Material Subsidiary), or substantially all of the capital stock or assets thereof, provided, that any such sale is for fair market value, determined in good faith by the board of directors of the Borrower.
          (b) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, engage to any material extent in any business other than businesses of the type conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date of execution of this Agreement and businesses reasonably related or complementary thereto.
          SECTION 6.03 Subsidiary Indebtedness. Except for (i) Indebtedness of its Subsidiaries described on Schedule 6.03 hereto, and (ii) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary of the Borrower acquired after the Closing Date and Indebtedness of a Person merged or consolidated with or into the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower after the Closing Date, which Indebtedness in each case exists at the time of such acquisition, merger or consolidated and was not created or incurred in contemplation of such acquisition, merger or consolidation, the Borrower will not permit the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of its Subsidiaries (excluding any Indebtedness of a Subsidiary owed to the Borrower or another Subsidiary, but including any Guarantee by a Subsidiary of Indebtedness of the Borrower) at any time to exceed $250,000,000.
          If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur:
          (a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
          (b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under any of the Loan Documents, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of three Business Days;
          (c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant
 
to or in connection with this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect when made or deemed made;
          (d) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02(a), 5.03 (with respect to the Borrower's existence), 5.08 or 5.09 or in Article VI;
          (e) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained any of the Loan Documents (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article of this Agreement), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of (i) 60 days in the case of Sections 5.01(a) or (b), or (ii) 30 days in all other cases, in each case after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
          (f) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable, after giving effect to any applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Material Indebtedness;
          (g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity, after giving effect to any applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Material Indebtedness; provided that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
          (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
          (i) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment
 
for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
          (j) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
          (k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in excess of $50,000,000 individually or $100,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
          (l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or
          (m) a Change in Control shall occur;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
          Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
          The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as
 
though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
          The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
          The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
          The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective
 
activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
          Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
          Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
          SECTION 9.01 Notices. (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
     (i) if to the Borrower, to it at 20330 Stevens Creek Blvd., Cupertino, CA 95014, Attention of Rossini Zumwalt (Telecopy No. (408) 517 8442), with a copy to Art Courville (Telecopy No. (408) 517 8121);
 
     (ii) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, Loan and Agency Services Group, 10 South Dearborn, 19 Floor, Chicago, IL 60603, Attention of Judy Warren (Telecopy No. (312) 385-7096), with a copy to JPMorgan Chase Bank, 560 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94105, Attention of Monique Devlin (Telecopy No. (415) 315-8483);
th
     (iii) if to the Swingline Lender, to it at JPMorgan Chase Bank, Loan and Agency Services Group, 10 South Dearborn, 19 Floor, Chicago, IL 60603, Attention of Judy Warren (Telecopy No. (312) 385-7096); and
th
     (iv) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
          (b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
          (c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
          SECTION 9.02 Waivers; Amendments. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
          (b) Neither this Agreement, any other Loan Document nor any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; provided that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or
 
reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.18(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) release all or substantially all of the value of the Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender or (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; provided further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent or the Swingline Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be.
          SECTION 9.03 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver. (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable and documented out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and (to the extent that the Administrative Agent has notified the Borrower that it is incurring such out of pocket expenses) administration of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
          (b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; provided that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent
 
jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee.
          (c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; provided that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such.
          (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions or any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.
          (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefore.
          SECTION 9.04 Successors and Assigns. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that (i) the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
          (b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) of:
     (A) the Borrower, provided that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee; and
     (B) the Administrative Agent, provided that no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for an assignment of any Commitment to
 
an assignee that is a Lender with a Commitment immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment.
     (ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
     (A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Loans of any Class, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $10,000,000 (or a greater amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000) unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, provided that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, provided that this clause shall not be construed to prohibit the assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations in respect of one Class of Commitments or Loans;
     (C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500;
     (D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more Credit Contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower and its related parties or its securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws; and
     (E) No Loan Party nor any Affiliate of a Loan Party shall be permitted to become an assignee hereunder.
          For the purposes of this Section 9.04(b), the term "Approved Fund" has the following meaning:
     "Approved Fund" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
     (iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the
 
interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
     (iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
     (v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register; provided that if either the assigning Lender or the assignee shall have failed to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information therein in the Register unless and until such payment shall have been made in full, together with all accrued interest thereon. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
          (c) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); provided that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided
 
that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.18(c) as though it were a Lender.
     (ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.15 or 2.17 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.17 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.17(e) as though it were a Lender.
          (d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; provided that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
          SECTION 9.05 Survival. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
          SECTION 9.06 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in
 
Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
          SECTION 9.07 Severability. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
          SECTION 9.08 Right of Setoff. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
          SECTION 9.09 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process. (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
          (b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
          (c) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby
 
irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
          (d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
          SECTION 9.10 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
          SECTION 9.11 Headings. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
          SECTION 9.12 Confidentiality. (a) Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. For the purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower; provided that, in the case of information received from the Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to
 
have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
          (b) EACH LENDER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT INFORMATION AS DEFINED IN SECTION 9.12(a) FURNISHED TO IT PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY INCLUDE MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION CONCERNING THE BORROWER AND ITS RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES, AND CONFIRMS THAT IT HAS DEVELOPED COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REGARDING THE USE OF MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION AND THAT IT WILL HANDLE SUCH MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THOSE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
          (c) ALL INFORMATION, INCLUDING REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS, FURNISHED BY THE BORROWER OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT PURSUANT TO, OR IN THE COURSE OF ADMINISTERING, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE SYNDICATE-LEVEL INFORMATION, WHICH MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE BORROWER AND ITS RELATED PARTIES OR ITS SECURITIES. ACCORDINGLY, EACH LENDER REPRESENTS TO THE BORROWER AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT THAT IT HAS IDENTIFIED IN ITS ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE A CREDIT CONTACT WHO MAY RECEIVE INFORMATION THAT MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW.
          SECTION 9.13 Interest Rate Limitation. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the "Charges"), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "Maximum Rate") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefore) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
          SECTION 9.14 USA PATRIOT Act. Each Lender that is subject to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act") hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. None
 
1. None
 
1. $520 million of 0.25% convertible subordinated notes due 2013 issued by Veritas.
 
EXHIBIT A
     This Assignment and Assumption (the "Assignment and Assumption") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [Insert name of Assignor] (the "Assignor") and [Insert name of Assignee] (the "Assignee"). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the "Credit Agreement"), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
     For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including any letters of credit, guarantees, and swingline loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the "Assigned Interest"). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
 
 
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFORE.]
                    
           
                    
The Assignee agrees to deliver to the Administrative Agent a completed Administrative Questionnaire in which the Assignee designates one or more Credit Contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower[, the Loan Parties] and [its] [their] Related Parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the Assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws.
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
[Consented to and] Accepted:
4
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent
 
 
ANNEX 1
          1. Representations and Warranties.
          1.1 Assignor. The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document , (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
          1.2. Assignee. The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it satisfies the requirements, if any, specified in the Credit Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section ___thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender         , attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
          2. Payments. From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
 
          3. General Provisions. This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York [confirm that choice of law provision parallels the Credit Agreement].
 
EXHIBIT B
          FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of ___. or its registered assigns (the "") for the account of its applicable lending office the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Loans and the Swingline Loans (each as defined below) owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement dated as of July 12, 2006 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""; terms defined therein, unless otherwise defined herein, being used herein as therein defined) among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other lender parties party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent for the Lender and such other lender parties on the Maturity Date.
Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
          Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, as provided in the Credit Agreement. Each Revolving Loan and Swingline Loan owing to the Lender by the Borrower and the maturity thereof, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto, which is part of this Promissory Note; that the failure of the Lender to make any such recordation or endorsement shall not affect the Obligations of the Borrower under this Promissory Note.
provided, however,
          This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Loans (variously, the "or the "") by the Lender to or for the benefit of the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Revolving Loans and Swingline Loan being evidenced by this Promissory Note, and (ii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
Revolving Loans
Swingline Loans
 
 
Exhibit C
To the Lenders and the Administrative       Agent Referred to Below c/o JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., as      Administrative Agent 270 Park Avenue New York, New York 10017
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as counsel to Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), in connection with: (i) the execution and delivery by Borrower of the Credit Agreement (the ""), dated as of July 12, 2006, among Borrower, each lender from time to time that is a party thereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a "") and JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., as Administrative Agent (the ""), and (ii) the execution and delivery by the Guarantors (as defined below) of the Guaranty (the ""), dated as of July 12, 2006, made by Veritas Software Global LLC, Veritas Operating Corporation, Veritas Software Investment Company and Veritas Software Technology Corporation (each a "" and collectively, the "") in favor of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (the Credit Agreement and the Guaranty together, the ""). We are furnishing this opinion to you pursuant to Section 4.01(b) of the Credit Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this opinion that are not otherwise defined herein or in hereto shall have the meanings assigned to those terms in the Loan Documents.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
Lenders
Lender
Administrative Agent
Guaranty
Guarantor
Guarantors
Loan Documents
Exhibit A
     In rendering this opinion, we have examined such matters of law as we considered necessary for the purpose of rendering this opinion. As to matters of fact material to the opinions expressed herein, we have relied solely upon the representations and warranties as to factual matters contained in, and made by Borrower pursuant to, the Management Certificate (as defined in ) and upon our examination of the documents identified on (collectively, the ""). We have not examined, and we express no opinion with respect to, any documents other than those described on or made any independent factual investigation. Except as described on , bring-down certificates, telegrams or telephonic advice of the public officials referred to on were not obtained as of the date hereof. Except as described on , we have not caused the search of any record of any governmental agency or third party.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Reviewed Documents
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
     In our examination of documents, we have assumed the current accuracy and completeness of (a) the information obtained from public officials and records included in the documents identified on and (b) the representations and warranties made by representatives of Borrower to us, including, without limitation, those set forth in the
Exhibit A
 
JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., as Administrative Agent The Lenders July 12, 2006 Page 2
Management Certificate. We have also assumed that all the representations and warranties made by the Borrower in, or pursuant to, the Credit Agreement are true and complete in all material respects. We have made no attempt to verify the accuracy of any of such information, representations or warranties or to determine the existence or non-existence of any factual matters other than those described above.
     In our examination of documents for purposes of this opinion, we have assumed, and express no opinion as to, the genuineness of all signatures on original documents, the authenticity and completeness of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to originals and completeness of all documents submitted to us as copies, the lack of any undisclosed termination, modification, waiver or amendment to any document reviewed by us, the legal competence and capacity of all persons or entities executing the same and (except with respect to due authorization of the Credit Agreement by Borrower and the Guaranty by the Guarantors) the due authorization, execution and delivery of all documents where due authorization, execution and delivery are prerequisites to the effectiveness thereof.
     For the purposes of this opinion, we have also assumed, without independent investigation, that: (a) the Loan Documents reflect the complete understanding and agreement of the parties concerning the subject matter thereof; (b) the Credit Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Administrative Agent and each Lender, enforceable against the Administrative Agent and each Lender in accordance with its terms; and (c) Borrower is not insolvent and by executing and delivering the Credit Agreement will not become insolvent and has not intended to incur, and will not have believed that it has incurred, debts beyond its ability to pay them as they mature.
     Our representation of the Borrower has been limited to specific matters on which the Borrower has engaged us from time to time. As used herein, the phrases "to our knowledge" and phrases of similar import, refer only to the actual present knowledge of the attorneys currently in this firm representing Borrower in connection with the execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement. Except to the extent expressly set forth herein, we have not undertaken any independent investigation to determine the existence or absence of any fact, and no inference as to our knowledge of any matters bearing on the accuracy of any such statement should be drawn from the fact of our representation of the Borrower.
     We do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of any information, including, but not limited to, financial information, furnished to you by Borrower (or any of its agents or representatives) concerning the business, assets, operations, financial condition or affairs of Borrower or any of its subsidiaries or any other information furnished to you by Borrower or any of its agents or representatives.
     Where statements in this opinion are qualified by the term "material" or "material adverse effect", those statements involve judgments and opinions as to the materiality or lack of materiality of the following matters, which judgments and opinions are entirely those of Borrower and its officers, after having been advised by us as to the legal effect and consequences
 
JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., as Administrative Agent The Lenders July 12, 2006 Page 3
of such matters: (a) any matter to Borrower and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; or (b) any matter to the businesses, assets, operations or financial conditions of Borrower and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole; or (c) the ability of Borrower to pay or perform its obligations in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement; or (d) the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent or any Lender or under the Loan Documents or any related document, instrument or agreement.
     This opinion is subject to, and we render no opinion with respect to the effect of the following:
(a) the effect of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, arrangement, moratorium, bulk sales, fraudulent conveyance and other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors generally, including, without limitation, the effect of statutory or other law regarding fraudulent conveyances, preferential transfers and equitable subordination;
(b) the effect of general principles of equity, including but not limited to judicial decisions holding that certain provisions are unenforceable when their enforcement would violate the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, or would be commercially unreasonable or involve undue delay, whether or not such principles or decisions have been codified by statute, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, unconscionability and the possible unavailability of specific performance, injunctive relief or other equitable remedies, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law;
(c) the effect of limitations imposed by reason of generally applicable public policy principles or considerations or limitations imposed by or resulting from the exercise by any court of its discretion;
(d) the existence or effect of any implied duty or covenant of good faith and fair dealing to which any Lender may have been or may be subject;
(e) the effect of any applicable law or court decisions that requires the Administrative Agent or a Lender to enforce its remedies in a commercially reasonable manner;
(f) any federal or state securities laws;
(g) the effect of state and federal laws and judicial decisions that provide, among other things, (i) that oral modifications to a contract or waivers of contractual provisions may be enforceable, if the modification was performed, notwithstanding any express provision in the agreement that the agreement may only be modified or an obligation thereunder waived in writing, or (ii) that an implied agreement may be created from trade practices or course of conduct;
 
JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., as Administrative Agent The Lenders July 12, 2006 Page 4
(h) the enforceability of any provision purporting to waive rights to trial by jury, service of process or objections to the laying of venue or to forum on the basis of in connection with any litigation arising out of or pertaining to the Loan Documents;
forum
non
conveniens
(i) the effect of judicial decisions that may permit the introduction of extrinsic evidence to modify the terms or the interpretation of the Loan Documents;
(j) the effect of equitable principles on the enforceability of any provisions of the Loan Documents providing that (i) rights or remedies are not exclusive, (ii) rights or remedies may be exercised without notice, (iii) every right or remedy is cumulative and may be exercised in addition to or with any other right or remedy, or (iv) the failure to exercise, or any delay in exercising, rights or remedies available under the Loan Documents will not operate as a waiver of any such right or remedy;
(k) applicable statutes and judicial decisions which provide, among other things, that a court may limit the granting of attorneys' fees to those attorneys' fees which are determined by the court to be reasonable and that attorneys' fees may be granted only to a prevailing party and that a contractual provision for attorneys' fees is deemed to extend to both parties (notwithstanding that such provision by its express terms benefits only one party); and
(l) the effect of equitable principles on the enforceability of any provision in the Loan Documents that permits or authorizes any Lender to exercise remedies or impose penalties or an increase in interest rate for late payment or other default if it is determined that the default is not material, the remedies or penalties bear no reasonable relation to the damage suffered by any Lender as a result of the default or it cannot be demonstrated that the enforcement of the remedies or penalties is reasonably necessary for the protection of any Lender.
     We call your attention to the fact that the Loan Documents provide for a guaranty by the Guarantors as subsidiaries of Borrower, and as such, is what is known as an "upstream guaranty" that should be supported by direct and sufficient consideration paid to the subsidiary making the guaranty. Accordingly, we have assumed in rendering our opinions that the guaranty provided for in the Guaranty is supported by sufficient, good and valuable consideration and that the Guarantors are not insolvent, nor will any Guarantor be rendered insolvent by the making of the guaranty.
     With respect to our opinion expressed in paragraphs 1, 6 and 7 below that Borrower and the Guarantors are in good standing under the laws of the States of California and Delaware, we have relied solely upon the good standing certificates provided by the California Secretary of State, California Franchise Tax Board and the Delaware Secretary of State to the effect that Borrower and the Guarantors are in good standing under the laws of such states.
 
JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., as Administrative Agent The Lenders July 12, 2006 Page 5
     With respect to our opinion in paragraph 5 below, we have relied solely upon Borrower's identification of those agreements of Borrower that Borrower considers to be material with respect to the Loan Documents and the transactions contemplated to be carried out in accordance with and pursuant to the Loan Documents and copies, supplied to us by Borrower, of such Borrower Material Agreements that are expressly listed and identified as "Borrower Material Agreements" on hereto and in the Management Certificate. We have not undertaken any independent investigation of such matters.
Exhibit B
     We are admitted to practice law in the State of California and in the State of New York. The opinions expressed herein are limited to the existing internal laws of the State of California, the existing internal laws of the State of New York, and the existing federal laws of the United States of America, assuming that such laws apply to the matters expressed herein. To the extent that any of the Reviewed Documents (other than the Loan Documents) are governed by the laws of any jurisdiction other than the States of California or New York, or the United States federal law as described above, our opinion relating to those documents is based solely upon the apparent meaning of the language, without regard to interpretation or construction that might be indicated by the laws governing those agreements. Our opinion is limited to such California and New York state and United States federal statutes, laws, rules or regulations as in our experience are of general application to transactions of the sort contemplated by the Loan Documents.
     With respect to our enforceability opinion in paragraph 3 below, our opinion is limited to the existing laws of the State of New York. With respect to the Loan Documents, we have assumed that in a proceeding outside of New York that the choice of New York state law would be given effect and would exclusively apply to and govern the Loan Documents.
     In accordance with Section 95 of the American Law Institute's Restatement (Third) of the Law Governing Lawyers (2000), this opinion letter is to be interpreted in accordance with customary practices of lawyers rendering opinions to third parties in transactions of the type provided for in the Loan Documents.
     In rendering the opinions below, we are opining only as to the specific legal issues expressly set forth therein, and no opinion shall be inferred as to any other matter or matters.
     Based upon and subject to the foregoing, and subject to all of the assumptions, qualifications, exceptions and limitations contained herein, we are of the opinion that:
1. Borrower is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Borrower is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing as a foreign corporation under the laws of the State of California.
2. All corporate action on the part of Borrower, its directors and its stockholders necessary for the authorization, execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement has been taken.
 
JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., as Administrative Agent The Lenders July 12, 2006 Page 6
3. The Credit Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Borrower, enforceable according to its terms, and the Guaranty constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Guarantors, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
4. The execution, delivery and performance of, and compliance with, the Credit Agreement, is within Borrower's corporate powers, and the execution, delivery and performance of, and compliance with, the Guaranty, is within each Guarantor's corporate powers.
5. The execution, delivery and performance of, and compliance with, the Credit Agreement by the Borrower and the Guaranty by the Guarantors has not resulted and will not result in, any violation of, or conflict with and does not constitute a default under: (i) any term of the Certificates of Incorporation or Bylaws of Borrower, Veritas Operating Corporation, Veritas Software Investment Company and Veritas Software Technology Corporation or the operating agreement of Veritas Software Global LLC, or (ii) to our knowledge, any material term or provision of any Borrower Material Agreement, or (iii) any United States federal, New York State or California State statute, rule or regulation applicable to Borrower or any Guarantor, or (iv) any judgment or order of any United States federal or California State court known to us to be applicable to Borrower or any Guarantor, in each case where such violation, conflict or default would materially and adversely affect Borrower or materially impair the ability of Borrower to perform its obligations under the Credit Agreement or the ability of any Guarantor to perform its obligations under the Guaranty.
6. Veritas Software Global LLC is a limited liability company duly formed and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
7. Veritas Operating Corporation, Veritas Software Investment Company and Veritas Software Technology Corporation are corporations duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Veritas Operating Corporation, Veritas Software Investment Company and Veritas Software Technology Corporation are duly qualified to do business and are in good standing as foreign corporations under the laws of the State of California.
8. All required action on the part of the members and managers of Veritas Software Global LLC necessary for the authorization, execution and delivery of the Guaranty has been taken.
9. All corporate action on the part of Veritas Operating Corporation, Veritas Software Investment Company and Veritas Software Technology Corporation, their directors and their stockholders necessary for the authorization, execution and delivery of the Guaranty has been taken.
 
JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., as Administrative Agent The Lenders July 12, 2006 Page 7
10. To our knowledge, no approval, consent, exemption, order or authorization, registration, or declaration by, or notice to, or filing with, any California State, New York State or United States federal governmental entity is necessary or required to be made by Borrower or any Guarantor in connection with the execution and delivery as of the Effective Date or performance by such party of the Credit Agreement or the Guaranty.
11. The Borrower is not, and is not required to be, registered as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     In addition, we supplementally inform you that, to our knowledge, except as described in Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 (the ""), there is no action, suit or proceeding pending or threatened in writing, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any governmental authority in the United States against Borrower or any Guarantor which (a) purports to affect or pertain to the Credit Agreement or the Guaranty or any of the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement or the Guaranty; or (b) could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Please note that we have not conducted a docket search in any jurisdiction with respect to litigation that may be pending against the Borrower or any of its subsidiaries or its or their property and that we are not litigation counsel to the Company in any of the matters described in the 2006 10-K or in most other litigation matters to which the Company or its subsidiaries are parties or by which any of their property may be bound. Other than to request the Management Certificate, we have not undertaken any further inquiry or analysis whatsoever in connection with the existence of, or any evaluation of. any such action, suit or proceeding or the accuracy of such description.
2006 10-K
     This opinion is intended solely for the benefit of each Lender for the purpose of the loan financing contemplated by the Loan Documents and is not to be used by any Lender for any other purpose or made available to or relied upon by any other person, firm or entity, without our prior written consent, except that you may, however, deliver a copy of this opinion to your attorneys, and to any Eligible Assignee or Participant of any Lender and to any successor Administrative Agent and any Eligible Assignee or Participant and any successor Administrative Agent may rely on this opinion as if it were addressed and had been delivered to them on the date hereof. This opinion speaks as of the date first above written, and we disclaim any duty to update or advise any Lender of any fact, circumstance, event or change in the law or the facts that may hereafter occur or be brought to our attention, even if it may affect or modify any of the opinions expressed herein.
 
     (a) Copies of the Loan Documents;
     (b) The Certificate of Incorporation of Borrower certified by the Delaware Secretary of State on July 11, 2006 and the Bylaws of Borrower certified by the Secretary of Borrower on July 12, 2006;
     (c) The Certificate of Formation of Veritas Software Global LLC certified by the Delaware Secretary of State on July 11, 2006 and the Operating Agreement of Veritas Software Global LLC certified by the Secretary of Veritas Software Global LLC on July 12, 2006;
     (d) The Certificate of Incorporation of Veritas Operating Corporation certified by the Delaware Secretary of State on July 11, 2006 and the Bylaws of Veritas Operating Corporation certified by the Secretary of Veritas Operating Corporation on July 12, 2006;
     (e) The Certificate of Incorporation of Veritas Software Investment Company certified by the Delaware Secretary of State on July 11, 2006 and the Bylaws of Veritas Software Investment Company certified by the Secretary of Veritas Software Investment Company on July 12, 2006;
     (f) The Certificate of Incorporation of Veritas Software Technology Corporation certified by the Delaware Secretary of State on July 11, 2006 and the Bylaws of Veritas Software Technology Corporation certified by the Secretary of Veritas Software Technology Corporation on July 12, 2006;
     (g) Copies of resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of Borrower on June 5, 2006 relating to the Loan Documents;
     (h) Copies of resolutions adopted by the Sole Member of Veritas Software Global LLC by unanimous written consent on July 12, 2006 relating to the Loan Documents;
     (i) Copies of resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of Veritas Operating Corporation by unanimous written consent on July 12, 2006 relating to the Loan Documents;
     (j) Copies of resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of Veritas Software Investment Company by unanimous written consent on July 12, 2006 relating to the Loan Documents;
     (k) Copies of resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of Veritas Software Technology Corporation by unanimous written consent on July 12, 2006 relating to the Loan Documents;
     (l) Certificate of Good Standing issued by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware regarding Borrower dated July 11, 2006;
 
     (m) Certificate of Good Standing issued by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware regarding Veritas Software Global LLC dated July 11, 2006;
     (n) Certificate of Good Standing issued by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware regarding Veritas Operating Corporation dated July 11, 2006;
     (o) Certificate of Good Standing issued by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware regarding Veritas Software Investment Company dated July 11, 2006;
     (p) Certificate of Good Standing issued by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware regarding Veritas Software Technology Corporation dated July 11, 2006;
     (q) Certificate of Status issued by the Secretary of State of the State of California dated July 11, 2006 and Certificate of Status issued by the California Franchise Tax Board dated July 11, 2006 with respect to the good standing of Borrower as a foreign corporation;
     (r) Certificate of Status issued by the California Franchise Tax Board dated July 11, 2006 with respect to the good standing of Veritas Software Global LLC as a foreign limited liability company;
     (s) Certificate of Status issued by the Secretary of State of the State of California dated July 11, 2006 and Certificate of Status issued by the California Franchise Tax Board dated July 11, 2006 with respect to the good standing of Veritas Operating Corporation as a foreign corporation;
     (t) Certificate of Status issued by the Secretary of State of the State of California dated July 11, 2006 and Certificate of Status issued by the California Franchise Tax Board dated July 11, 2006 with respect to the good standing of Veritas Software Investment Company as a foreign corporation;
     (u) Certificate of Status issued by the Secretary of State of the State of California dated July 11, 2006 and Certificate of Status issued by the California Franchise Tax Board dated July 11, 2006 with respect to the good standing of Veritas Software Technology Corporation as a foreign corporation;
     (v) A certificate of Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of certain officers of Borrower authorized to sign the Credit Agreement;
     (w) A certificate of Veritas Software Global LLC certifying the names and true signatures of certain officers of Veritas Software Global LLC authorized to sign the Guaranty;
     (x) A certificate of Veritas Operating Corporation certifying the names and true signatures of certain officers of Veritas Operating Corporation authorized to sign the Guaranty;
     (y) A certificate of Veritas Software Investment Company certifying the names and true signatures of certain officers of Veritas Software Investment Company authorized to sign the Guaranty;
 
     (z) A certificate of Veritas Software Technology Corporation certifying the names and true signatures of certain officers of Veritas Software Technology Corporation authorized to sign the Guaranty;
     (aa) A Management Certificate addressed to us and dated of even date herewith executed by Borrower (the ""); and
Management Certificate
     (bb) Copies of the agreements, each of which is listed on to this letter, and which have been identified to us by Borrower on Exhibit A to the Management Certificate to be the only material agreements of Borrower to which Borrower is a party or by which Borrower's assets are bound that Borrower considers to be material with respect to the Loan Documents and the transactions contemplated to be carried out in accordance with and pursuant to the Loan Documents (the "").
Exhibit B
Borrower Material Agreements
 
 
 
 
Exhibit D
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
          SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY dated as of July 12, 2006 made by the Persons listed on the signature pages hereof under the caption "Subsidiary Guarantors" and the Additional Guarantors (as defined in Section 8(b)) (such Persons so listed and the Additional Guarantors being, collectively, the "" and, individually, each a "") in favor of the Lender Parties (as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below).
Guarantors
Guarantor
          PRELIMINARY STATEMENT. Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "" and, together with the Guarantors, the and each, individually, a ), is party to a Credit Agreement dated as of July 12, 2006 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""; the capitalized terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein being used herein as therein defined) with certain Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent for such Lenders (together with the Lenders the and each, individually, a ). Each Guarantor will derive substantial direct and indirect benefits from the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement. It is a condition precedent to the making of Advances by the Lender Parties under the Credit Agreement that each Guarantor shall have executed and delivered this Guaranty.
Borrower
"Loan Parties"
"Loan Party"
Credit Agreement
"Lender Parties"
"Lender Party"
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and in order to induce the Lender Parties to make Advances under the Credit Agreement from time to time, each Guarantor, jointly and severally with each other Guarantor, hereby agrees as follows:
          Section 1. . (a) Each Guarantor hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at scheduled maturity or on any date of a required prepayment or by acceleration, demand or otherwise, of all obligations of each other Loan Party now or hereafter existing under or in respect of this Guaranty and the Credit Agreement (together, the ) (including, without limitation, any extensions, modifications, substitutions, amendments or renewals of any or all of the foregoing obligations), whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, and whether for principal, interest, premiums, fees, indemnities, contract causes of action, costs, expenses or otherwise (such obligations being the ""), and agrees to pay any and all expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by the Administrative Agent or any other Lender Party in enforcing any rights under this Guaranty or any other Loan Document. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Guarantor's liability shall extend to all amounts that constitute part of the Guaranteed Obligations and would be owed by any other Loan Party to any Lender Party under or in respect of the Loan Documents but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving such other Loan Party.
Guaranty; Limitation of Liability
"Loan Documents"
Guaranteed Obligations
          (b) Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of this Guaranty, the Administrative Agent and each other Lender Party, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such Persons that this Guaranty and the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law (as hereinafter defined), the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar foreign, federal or state law to the extent applicable to this Guaranty and the obligations of each
 
Guarantor hereunder. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Administrative Agent, the other Lender Parties and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of each Guarantor under this Guaranty at any time shall be limited to the maximum amount as will result in the obligations of such Guarantor under this Guaranty not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. For purposes hereof, "" means any proceeding of the type referred to in Article VII(i) of the Credit Agreement or Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar foreign, federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
          (c) Each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that in the event any payment shall be required to be made to any Lender Party under this Guaranty or any other guaranty, such Guarantor will contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law, such amounts to each other Guarantor and each other guarantor so as to maximize the aggregate amount paid to the Lender Parties under or in respect of the Loan Documents.
          Section 2. . Each Guarantor guarantees that the Guaranteed Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of any Lender Party with respect thereto. The obligations of each Guarantor under or in respect of this Guaranty are independent of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any other Loan Party under or in respect of the Loan Documents, and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against each Guarantor to enforce this Guaranty, irrespective of whether any action is brought against the Borrower or any other Loan Party or whether the Borrower or any other Loan Party is joined in any such action or actions. The liability of each Guarantor under this Guaranty shall be irrevocable, absolute and unconditional irrespective of, and each Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any defenses it may now have or hereafter acquire in any way relating to, any or all of the following:
Guaranty Absolute
     (a) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Loan Document or any agreement or instrument relating thereto;
     (b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any other Loan Party under or in respect of the Loan Documents, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any Loan Document, including, without limitation, any increase in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from the extension of additional credit to any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries or otherwise;
     (c) any taking, exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any taking, release or amendment or waiver of, or consent to departure from, any other guaranty, for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations;
     (d) any manner of application of any collateral, or proceeds thereof, to all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any manner of sale or other disposition of any collateral for all or any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other obligations of any Loan Party under the Loan Documents or any other assets of any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries;
 
     (e) any change, restructuring or termination of the corporate structure or existence of any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries;
     (f) any failure of any Lender Party to disclose to any Loan Party any information relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any other Loan Party now or hereafter known to such Lender Party (each Guarantor waiving any duty on the part of the Lender Parties to disclose such information);
     (g) the failure of any other Person to execute or deliver this Guaranty, any Guaranty Supplement (as hereinafter defined) or any other guaranty or agreement or the release or reduction of liability of any Guarantor or other guarantor or surety with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations; or
     (h) any other circumstance (including, without limitation, any statute of limitations) or any existence of or reliance on any representation by any Lender Party that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, any Loan Party or any other guarantor or surety.
This Guaranty shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Guaranteed Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by any Lender Party or any other Person upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower or any other Loan Party or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
          Section 3. . (a) Each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives promptness, diligence, notice of acceptance, presentment, demand for performance, notice of nonperformance, default, acceleration, protest or dishonor and any other notice with respect to any of the Guaranteed Obligations and this Guaranty and any requirement that any Lender Party protect, secure, perfect or insure any Lien or any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against any Loan Party or any other Person or any collateral.
Waivers and Acknowledgments
          (b) Each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any right to revoke this Guaranty and acknowledges that this Guaranty is continuing in nature and applies to all Guaranteed Obligations, whether existing now or in the future.
          (c) Each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives (i) any defense arising by reason of any claim or defense based upon an election of remedies by any Lender Party that in any manner impairs, reduces, releases or otherwise adversely affects the subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification rights of such Guarantor or other rights of such Guarantor to proceed against any of the other Loan Parties, any other guarantor or any other Person or any collateral and (ii) any defense based on any right of set-off or counterclaim against or in respect of the obligations of such Guarantor hereunder.
          (d) Each Guarantor acknowledges that the Administrative Agent may, without notice to or demand upon such Guarantor and without affecting the liability of such Guarantor under this Guaranty, foreclose under any mortgage by nonjudicial sale, and each Guarantor hereby waives any defense to the recovery by the Administrative Agent and the other Lender
 
Parties against such Guarantor of any deficiency after such nonjudicial sale and any defense or benefits that may be afforded by applicable law.
          (e) Each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives any duty on the part of any Lender Party to disclose to such Guarantor any matter, fact or thing relating to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of any other Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries now or hereafter known by such Lender Party.
          (f) Each Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive substantial direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Loan Documents and that the waivers set forth in Section 2 and this Section 3 are knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
          Section 4. . Each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agrees not to exercise any rights that it may now have or hereafter acquire against the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other insider guarantor that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of such Guarantor's obligations under or in respect of this Guaranty or any other Loan Document, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of any Lender Party against the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other insider guarantor or any collateral, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other insider guarantor, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim, remedy or right, unless and until all of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty shall have been paid in full in cash and the Commitments shall have expired or been terminated. If any amount shall be paid to any Guarantor in violation of the immediately preceding sentence at any time prior to the latest of (a) the payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty and (b) the Maturity Date, such amount shall be received and held in trust for the benefit of the Lender Parties, shall be segregated from other property and funds of such Guarantor and shall forthwith be paid or delivered to the Administrative Agent in the same form as so received (with any necessary endorsement or assignment) to be credited and applied to the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents, or to be held as collateral for any Guaranteed Obligations or other amounts payable under this Guaranty thereafter arising. If (i) any Guarantor shall make payment to any Lender Party of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, (ii) all of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty shall have been paid in full in cash and (iii) the Maturity Date shall have occurred, the Lender Parties will, at such Guarantor's request and expense, execute and deliver to such Guarantor appropriate documents, without recourse and without representation or warranty, necessary to evidence the transfer by subrogation to such Guarantor of an interest in the Guaranteed Obligations resulting from such payment made by such Guarantor pursuant to this Guaranty.
Subrogation
          Section 5. . (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Guarantor hereunder shall be made free and clear of and
Payments Free and Clear of Taxes, Etc
 
without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; provided that if the Guarantor shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Guarantor shall make such deductions and (iii) the Guarantor shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
          (b) In addition, the Guarantor shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
          (c) The Guarantor shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Guarantor hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Guarantor by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
          (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Guarantor to a Governmental Authority, the Guarantor shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
          (e) Any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Guarantor and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under the Credit Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Guarantor or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
          (i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States of America is a party;
          (ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-ECI;
          (iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation"
 
described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
          (iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
               In addition, each Lender shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law as will enable the Guarantor or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements..
          (b) (f) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Guarantor or with respect to which the Guarantor has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 5, it shall pay over such refund to the Guarantor (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Guarantor under this Section 5 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); provided, that the Guarantor, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Guarantor (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Guarantor or any other Person.
          Section 6. . Each Guarantor hereby makes each representation and warranty made in the Loan Documents by the Borrower with respect to such Guarantor and each Guarantor hereby further represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties
     (a) There are no conditions precedent to the effectiveness of this Guaranty that have not been satisfied or waived.
     (b) Such Guarantor has, independently and without reliance upon any Lender Party and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Guaranty and each other Loan Document to which it is or is to be a party, and such Guarantor has established adequate means of obtaining from each other Loan Party on a continuing basis information pertaining to, and is now and on a continuing basis will be completely familiar with, the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties and prospects of such other Loan Party.
          Section 7. . Each Guarantor covenants and agrees that, so long as any part of the Guaranteed Obligations shall remain unpaid, any Lender Party shall have any Commitment, such Guarantor will perform and observe, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to
Covenants
 
perform and observe, all of the terms, covenants and agreements set forth in the Loan Documents on its or their part to be performed or observed or that the Borrower has agreed to cause such Guarantor or such Subsidiaries to perform or observe.
          Section 8. . (a) No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Guaranty and no consent to any departure by any Guarantor therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all of the Lender Parties (other than any Lender Party that is, at such time, a Defaulting Lender), (a) reduce or limit the obligations of any Guarantor hereunder, release any Guarantor hereunder or otherwise limit any Guarantor's liability with respect to the obligations owing to the Lender Parties under or in respect of the Loan Documents, (b) postpone any date fixed for payment hereunder or (c) change the number of Lender Parties or the percentage of (x) the Commitments or (y) the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances that, in each case, shall be required for the Lender Parties or any of them to take any action hereunder.
Amendments, Guaranty Supplements, Etc
provided
however
          (b) Upon the execution and delivery by any Person of a guaranty supplement in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto (each, a ""), (i) such Person shall be referred to as an "" and shall become and be a Guarantor hereunder, and each reference in this Guaranty to a "" shall also mean and be a reference to such Additional Guarantor, and each reference in any other Loan Document to a "" shall also mean and be a reference to such Additional Guarantor, and (ii) each reference herein to "", "", "" or words of like import referring to this Guaranty, and each reference in any other Loan Document to the "", "", "" or words of like import referring to this Guaranty, shall mean and be a reference to this Guaranty as supplemented by such Guaranty Supplement.
Guaranty Supplement
Additional Guarantor
Guarantor
Subsidiary Guarantor
this Guaranty
hereunder
hereof
Subsidiary Guaranty
thereunder
thereof
          Section 9. . All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including telegraphic, telecopy or telex communication) and mailed, telegraphed, telecopied, telexed or delivered to it, if to any Guarantor, addressed to it in care of the Borrower at the Borrower's address specified in Section 9.01 of the Credit Agreement, if to any Agent or any Lender Party, at its address specified in Section 9.01 of the Credit Agreement, or, as to any party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to each other party. All such notices and other communications shall, when mailed, telegraphed, telecopied or telexed, be effective when deposited in the mails, delivered to the telegraph company, transmitted by telecopier or confirmed by telex answerback, respectively. Delivery by telecopier of an executed counterpart of a signature page to any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Guaranty or of any Guaranty Supplement to be executed and delivered hereunder shall be effective as delivery of an original executed counterpart thereof.
Notices, Etc
          Section 10. . No failure on the part of any Lender Party to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
 
          Section 11. . Upon (a) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (b) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Article VII of the Credit Agreement to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the Notes due and payable pursuant to the provisions of said Article VII, each Agent and each Lender Party and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Agent, such Lender Party or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Guarantor against any and all of the obligations of such Guarantor now or hereafter existing under the Loan Documents, irrespective of whether such Agent or such Lender Party shall have made any demand under this Guaranty or any other Loan Document and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Agent and each Lender Party agrees promptly to notify such Guarantor after any such set-off and application; , , that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Agent and each Lender Party and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) that such Agent, such Lender Party and their respective Affiliates may have.
Right of Set-off
provided
however
          Section 12. . (a) Without limitation on any other obligations of any Guarantor or remedies of the Lender Parties under this Guaranty, each Guarantor shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, indemnify, defend and save and hold harmless each Lender Party and each of their Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "") from and against, and shall pay on demand, any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) that may be incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party in connection with or as a result of any failure of any Guaranteed Obligations to be the legal, valid and binding obligations of any Loan Party enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with their terms.
Indemnification
Indemnified Party
          (b) Each Guarantor hereby also agrees that none of the Indemnified Parties shall have any liability (whether direct or indirect, in contract, tort or otherwise) to any of the Guarantors or any of their respective Affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors, and each Guarantor hereby agrees not to assert any claim against any Indemnified Party on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages arising out of or otherwise relating to the Loan Documents, the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances, the Transaction Documents or any of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents.
          (c) Without prejudice to the survival of any of the other agreements of any Guarantor under this Guaranty or any of the other Loan Documents, the agreements and obligations of each Guarantor contained in Section 1(a) (with respect to enforcement expenses), the last sentence of Section 2, Section 5 and this Section 12 shall survive the payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations and all of the other amounts payable under this Guaranty.
          Section 13. . Each Guarantor hereby subordinates any and all debts, liabilities and other obligations owed to such Guarantor by each other Loan Party (the
Subordination
 
"") to the Guaranteed Obligations to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth in this Section 13:
Subordinated Obligations
     (a) . Except during the continuance of a Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to any other Loan Party), each Guarantor may receive regularly scheduled payments from any other Loan Party on account of the Subordinated Obligations. After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to any other Loan Party), however, unless the Administrative Agent otherwise agrees, no Guarantor shall demand, accept or take any action to collect any payment on account of the Subordinated Obligations.
Prohibited Payments, Etc
     (b) . In any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to any other Loan Party, each Guarantor agrees that the Lender Parties shall be entitled to receive payment in full in cash of all Guaranteed Obligations (including all interest and expenses accruing after the commencement of a proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law, whether or not constituting an allowed claim in such proceeding ("")) before such Guarantor receives payment of any Subordinated Obligations.
Prior Payment of Guaranteed Obligations
Post Petition Interest
     (c) . After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to any other Loan Party), each Guarantor shall, if the Administrative Agent so requests, collect, enforce and receive payments on account of the Subordinated Obligations as trustee for the Lender Parties and deliver such payments to the Administrative Agent on account of the Guaranteed Obligations (including all Post Petition Interest), together with any necessary endorsements or other instruments of transfer, but without reducing or affecting in any manner the liability of such Guarantor under the other provisions of this Guaranty.
Turn-Over
     (d) . After the occurrence and during the continuance of any Default (including the commencement and continuation of any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law relating to any other Loan Party), the Administrative Agent is authorized and empowered (but without any obligation to so do), in its discretion, (i) in the name of each Guarantor, to collect and enforce, and to submit claims in respect of, Subordinated Obligations and to apply any amounts received thereon to the Guaranteed Obligations (including any and all Post Petition Interest), and (ii) to require each Guarantor (A) to collect and enforce, and to submit claims in respect of, Subordinated Obligations and (B) to pay any amounts received on such obligations to the Administrative Agent for application to the Guaranteed Obligations (including any and all Post Petition Interest).
Administrative Agent Authorization
          Section 14. . This Guaranty is a continuing guaranty and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until the latest of (i) the payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guaranty and (ii) the Maturity Date, (b) be binding upon the Guarantor, its successors
Continuing Guaranty; Assignments under the Credit Agreement
 
and assigns and (c) inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Lender Parties and their successors, transferees and assigns. Without limiting the generality of clause (c) of the immediately preceding sentence, any Lender Party may assign or otherwise transfer all or any portion of its rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, all or any portion of its Commitments, the Advances owing to it and the Note or Notes held by it) to any other Person, and such other Person shall thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect thereof granted to such Lender Party herein or otherwise, in each case as and to the extent provided in Section 9.04 of the Credit Agreement. No Guarantor shall have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of the Lender Parties.
          Section 15. . This Guaranty and each amendment, waiver and consent with respect hereto may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties thereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Guaranty by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of an original executed counterpart of this Guaranty.
Execution in Counterparts
          Section 16. .(a) This Guaranty shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial, Etc
          (b) Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty or any of the other Loan Documents to which it is or is to be a party, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. Each Guarantor agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Guaranty or any other Loan Document shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Guaranty or any other Loan Document in the courts of any jurisdiction.
          (c) Each Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty or any of the other Loan Documents to which it is or is to be a party in any New York State or federal court. Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such suit, action or proceeding in any such court.
 
          (d) EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY OF THE LOAN DOCUMENTS, THE ADVANCES OR THE ACTIONS OF ANY LENDER PARTY IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT THEREOF.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Guarantor has caused this Guaranty to be duly executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
Exhibit A To The Subsidiary Guaranty
__, ____
                    
JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent [Address of Administrative Agent]
Attention:
                    
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Reference is made to the above-captioned Credit Agreement and to the Subsidiary Guaranty referred to therein (such Subsidiary Guaranty, as in effect on the date hereof and as it may hereafter be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, together with this Guaranty Supplement, being the ""). The capitalized terms defined in the Subsidiary Guaranty or in the Credit Agreement and not otherwise defined herein are used herein as therein defined.
Subsidiary Guaranty
          Section 1. . (a) The undersigned hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at scheduled maturity or on any date of a required prepayment or by acceleration, demand or otherwise, of all obligations of each other Loan Party now or hereafter existing under or in respect of the Loan Documents (including, without limitation, any extensions, modifications, substitutions, amendments or renewals of any or all of the foregoing obligations), whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, and whether for principal, interest, premium, fees, indemnities, contract causes of action, costs, expenses or otherwise (such obligations being the ""), and agrees to pay any and all expenses (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by the Administrative Agent or any other Lender Party in enforcing any rights under this Guaranty Supplement, the Subsidiary Guaranty or any other Loan Document. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the undersigned's liability shall extend to all amounts that constitute part of the Guaranteed Obligations and would be owed by any other Loan Party to any Lender Party under or in respect of the Loan Documents but for the fact that they are unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding involving such other Loan Party.
Guaranty; Limitation of Liability
Guaranteed Obligations
 
          (b) The undersigned, and by its acceptance of this Guaranty Supplement, the Administrative Agent and each other Lender Party, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such Persons that this Guaranty Supplement, the Subsidiary Guaranty and the obligations of the undersigned hereunder and thereunder not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar foreign, federal or state law to the extent applicable to this Guaranty Supplement, the Subsidiary Guaranty and the obligations of the undersigned hereunder and thereunder. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Administrative Agent, the other Lender Parties and the undersigned hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of the undersigned under this Guaranty Supplement and the Subsidiary Guaranty at any time shall be limited to the maximum amount as will result in the obligations of the undersigned under this Guaranty Supplement and the Subsidiary Guaranty not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
          (c) The undersigned hereby unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that in the event any payment shall be required to be made to any Lender Party under this Guaranty Supplement, the Subsidiary Guaranty or any other guaranty, the undersigned will contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, such amounts to each other Guarantor and each other guarantor so as to maximize the aggregate amount paid to the Lender Parties under or in respect of the Loan Documents.
          Section 2. . The undersigned hereby agrees, as of the date first above written, to be bound as a Guarantor by all of the terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Guaranty to the same extent as each of the other Guarantors thereunder. The undersigned further agrees, as of the date first above written, that each reference in the Subsidiary Guaranty to an "" or a "" shall also mean and be a reference to the undersigned, and each reference in any other Loan Document to a "" or a "" shall also mean and be a reference to the undersigned.
Obligations Under the Guaranty
Additional Guarantor
Guarantor
Subsidiary Guarantor
Loan Party
          Section 3. . The undersigned hereby makes each representation and warranty set forth in Section 6 of the Subsidiary Guaranty to the same extent as each other Guarantor.
Representations and Warranties
          Section 4. . Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Guaranty Supplement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of an original executed counterpart of this Guaranty Supplement.
Delivery by Telecopier
          Section 5. . (a) This Guaranty Supplement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial, Etc
          (b) The undersigned hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or any federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty Supplement, the Subsidiary Guaranty or any of the other Loan Documents to which it is or is to be a party, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and the undersigned hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard
 
and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. The undersigned agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Guaranty Supplement or the Subsidiary Guaranty or any other Loan Document shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Guaranty Supplement, the Subsidiary Guaranty or any of the other Loan Documents to which it is or is to be a party in the courts of any other jurisdiction.
          (c) The undersigned irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty Supplement, the Subsidiary Guaranty or any of the other Loan Documents to which it is or is to be a party in any New York State or federal court. The undersigned hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such suit, action or proceeding in any such court.
          (d) THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY OF THE LOAN DOCUMENTS, THE ADVANCES OR THE ACTIONS OF ANY LENDER PARTY IN THE NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT THEREOF.


