FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20070725164840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 25, 2007, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.01
News Release
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today reported the results of its first quarter of fiscal year 2008, ended June 29, 2007. GAAP revenue for the quarter was $1.40 billion and non-GAAP revenue was $1.42 billion. Non-GAAP revenue grew 10 percent over the comparable period a year ago.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  July 25, 2007 
GAAP deferred revenue at the end of the June 2007 quarter was $2.66 billion, compared to $2.31 billion at the end of the June 2006 quarter. Non-GAAP deferred revenue at the end of the quarter reached $2.71 billion, up 16 percent compared to $2.34 billion at the end of the June 2006 quarter. Symantec continues to benefit from an increasing volume of predictable revenue rolling off the balance sheet driven by its deferred revenue model.
GAAP net income for the June 2007 quarter was $95 million, versus last year's equivalent figure of $101 million. Diluted earnings per share of $0.10 were flat versus the same quarter last year. Profits were impacted by a $19 million restructuring charge related to the reduction in force announced in February 2007 and further facilities consolidation activities.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income for the June 2007 quarter was $263 million, up 4 percent compared to $253 million for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.29, up 21 percent compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.24 for the same quarter last year. For a detailed reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results, please refer to the condensed consolidated financial statements below.
Non-GAAP Results:
"Performance for the quarter was driven by strong demand in many of our core and emerging technology solutions, as well as solid execution by our services, consumer and Altiris teams," said John W. Thompson, chairman and chief executive officer, Symantec. "We're off to a good start to our fiscal year."
 
Symantec Reports Strong First Quarter Revenue and Earnings Page 2 of 4
For the quarter, Symantec's Consumer segment represented 30 percent of total non-GAAP revenue and grew 11 percent year-over-year. The Security and Data Management segment represented 30 percent of total revenue and grew 4 percent year-over-year. The Data Center Management segment represented 28 percent of total revenue and grew 5 percent year-over-year. Services represented 6 percent of total revenue and grew 13 percent year-over-year. The Altiris segment includes revenues from the acquisition of Altiris and Symantec's Ghost, pcAnywhere and LiveState Delivery solutions, and represented 6 percent of total revenue.
Financial Highlights
International revenues represented 51 percent of total non-GAAP revenue in the June 2007 quarter and grew 12 percent year-over-year. The Europe, Middle East and Africa region represented 33 percent of total revenue for the quarter and grew 15 percent year-over-year. The Asia Pacific/Japan revenue for the quarter represented 13 percent of total revenue and grew 8 percent year-over-year. The Americas, including the United States, Latin America and Canada, represented 54 percent of total revenue and increased 8 percent year-over-year.
For the September 2007 quarter, GAAP revenue is estimated between $1.35 billion and $1.38 billion. GAAP diluted earnings per share are estimated between $0.07 and $0.09.
September Quarter 2007 Guidance
Non-GAAP revenue for the September 2007 quarter is estimated between $1.37 billion and $1.40 billion. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are estimated between $0.24 and $0.26.
GAAP deferred revenue is expected to be in the range of $2.53 billion and $2.58 billion. Non-GAAP deferred revenue is expected to be in the range of $2.55 billion and $2.60 billion.
For the September 2007 quarter, we expect cash flow from operating activities to be below the September 2006 quarter cash flow from operating activities of $276 million.
Quarterly Highlights
 
Symantec Reports Strong First Quarter Revenue and Earnings Page 3 of 4
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the fiscal first quarter, ended June 29, 2007, and to review guidance. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
Conference Call
http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html
Symantec is a global leader in infrastructure software, enabling businesses and consumers to have confidence in a connected world. The company helps customers protect their infrastructure, information and interactions by delivering software and services that address risks to security, availability, compliance and performance. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in 40 countries. More information is available at www.symantec.com.
About Symantec
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
Symantec Reports Strong First Quarter Revenue and Earnings Page 4 of 4
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including statements relating to projections of future revenue, earnings per share, deferred revenue and cash flow from operations, as well as projections of amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and stock-based compensation. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: maintaining customer and partner relationships; the anticipated growth of certain market segments, particularly with regard to security and storage; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; the successful development of new products and integration of acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended March 30, 2007.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
Our results of operations have undergone significant change due to a series of acquisitions, the impact of SFAS 123(R) and other corporate events. To help our readers understand our past financial performance and our future results, we supplement the financial results that we provide in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, with non-GAAP financial measures. The method we use to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Our non-GAAP results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to our quarterly earnings release and which can be found, along with other financial information, on the investor relations page of our Web site at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest
 
 
 
 
 
The non-GAAP financial measures included in the table above are non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share, which adjust for the following items: business combination accounting entries, expenses related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges and charges related to the amortization of other intangible assets, and certain other items. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is useful to investors, and such measures are used by our management, for the reasons associated with each of the adjusting items as described below.
 
 
 
 
We believe the non-GAAP revenue measures set forth above are useful to investors, and such items are used by our management, because revenue associated with deferred revenue that was excluded as a result of purchase accounting adjustments to fair value is reflective of ongoing operating results.
 
 
We believe the non-GAAP measures set forth above are useful to investors, and such items are used by our management, because deferred revenue that was excluded as a result of purchase accounting adjustments to fair value is reflective of ongoing operating results.
 
 
We believe that providing a forecast of the non-GAAP items set forth above is useful to investors, and such items are used by our management, for the reasons associated with each of the adjusting items as described below.
 
 
We believe that providing the non-GAAP item set forth above is useful to investors, and such item is used by our management, for the reasons associated with the adjusting item as described above.
 


