FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20080123165208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 23, 2008, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 28, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today reported the results of its third quarter of fiscal year 2008, ended Dec. 28, 2007. GAAP revenue for the quarter was $1.52 billion and non-GAAP revenue was $1.53 billion. Non-GAAP revenue grew 15 percent versus the December 2006 period of $1.33 billion.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Jan. 23, 2008 
GAAP deferred revenue as of Dec. 28, 2007 was $2.88 billion, up 12 percent compared to $2.56 billion on Dec. 29, 2006. Non-GAAP deferred revenue as of Dec. 28, 2007 reached $2.9 billion, up 12 percent compared to $2.58 billion on Dec. 29, 2006.
Cash flow from operating activities for the December 2007 quarter was $462 million, compared to $454 million for the December 2006 quarter.
GAAP net income for the December 2007 quarter was $132 million, up 13 percent compared to $117 million in the December 2006 quarter. Diluted earnings per share of $0.15 was up 25 percent compared to $0.12 for the same quarter last year.
GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP net income for the December 2007 quarter was $292 million, up 16 percent compared to $251 million for the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.33, up 27 percent compared to $0.26 for the same quarter last year. For a detailed reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results, please refer to the condensed consolidated financial statements below.
Non-GAAP Results:
"The team's continued focus on operational improvements and product quality produced great results in the December quarter," said John W. Thompson, chairman and chief executive officer, Symantec. "I'm very pleased with the strength of our business and our outlook for the March quarter."
 
Symantec Reports Strong Third Quarter Results
Page 2
Financial Highlights
For the quarter, Symantec's Consumer segment represented 29 percent of total non-GAAP revenue and grew 8 percent year-over-year. The Security and Data Management segment represented 29 percent of total revenue and grew 9 percent year-over-year. The Data Center Management segment represented 29 percent of total revenue and grew 11 percent year-over-year. Services represented 6 percent of total revenue and grew 40 percent year-over-year. The Altiris segment, including revenues from the acquisition of Altiris and Symantec's Ghost, pcAnywhere and LiveState Delivery solutions, represented 7 percent of total revenue. The standalone Altiris solutions contributed a record $65 million in non-GAAP revenue.
International revenues represented 53 percent of total non-GAAP revenue in the December 2007 quarter and grew 21 percent year-over-year. The Europe, Middle East and Africa region represented 35 percent of total revenue for the quarter and grew 26 percent year-over-year. The Asia Pacific/Japan revenue for the quarter represented 14 percent of total revenue and grew 19 percent year-over-year. The Americas, including the United States, Latin America and Canada, represented 51 percent of total revenue and increased 8 percent year-over-year.
March 2008 Quarter Guidance
For the March 2008 quarter, GAAP revenue is estimated between $1.50 billion and $1.54 billion. Non-GAAP revenue for the March 2008 quarter is estimated between $1.51 billion and $1.55 billion.
GAAP diluted earnings per share are estimated between $0.16 and $0.18. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are estimated between $0.33 and $0.35.
GAAP deferred revenue is expected to be in the range of $2.94 billion and $3.04 billion. Non-GAAP deferred revenue is expected to be in the range of $2.95 billion and $3.05 billion.
Fiscal Year 2008 Guidance
Symantec is raising its guidance for fiscal year 2008 as follows:
For the fiscal year ending March 28, 2008, GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.835 billion to $5.875 billion. Non-GAAP revenue is estimated in the range of $5.90 billion to $5.94 billion.
GAAP diluted earnings per share is estimated between $0.46 and $0.48. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is estimated between $1.24 and $1.26.
For the fiscal year 2008, cash flow from operating activities is expected to be greater than the $1.67 billion reported for fiscal year 2007.
 
Symantec Reports Strong Third Quarter Results
Page 3
Quarterly Highlights
Conference Call
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the fiscal third quarter, ended Dec. 28, 2007, and to review guidance. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
http://www.symantec.com/invest/index.html
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in infrastructure software, enabling businesses and consumers to have confidence in a connected world. The company helps customers protect their infrastructure, information and interactions by delivering software and services that address risks to security, availability, compliance and performance. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in more 40 countries. More information is available at www.symantec.com.
 
Symantec Reports Strong Third Quarter Results
Page 4
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including statements relating to projections of future revenue, earnings per share, deferred revenue and cash flow from operations, as well as projections of amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and stock-based compensation. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: maintaining customer and partner relationships; the anticipated growth of certain market segments, particularly with regard to security and storage; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; the successful development of new products and integration of acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K for the year ended March 30, 2007.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
Our results of operations have undergone significant change due to a series of acquisitions, the impact of SFAS 123(R) and other corporate events. To help our readers understand our past financial performance and our future results, we supplement the financial results that we provide in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, with non-GAAP financial measures. The method we use to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Our non-GAAP results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to our quarterly earnings release and which can be found, along with other financial information, on the investor relations page of our Web site at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
The non-GAAP financial measures included in the tables above are non-GAAP net revenues, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share, which adjust for the following items: business combination accounting entries, expenses related to acquisitions, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges and charges related to the amortization of intangible assets, write-downs of intangible assets and certain other items. We believe the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operating performance for the reasons discussed below. Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results, as well as when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods and to our peers and that investors benefit from an understanding of these non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
8
 
We include certain non-GAAP revenue and deferred revenue components in the tracking and forecasting of our revenue and management of our business. This includes non-GAAP revenue associated with deferred revenue that was excluded as a result of purchase accounting adjustments related to acquisitions. We believe the non-GAAP revenue measures set forth above are useful to investors, and such items are used by our management, because this revenue is reflective of our ongoing operating results.
 
9
 
We include certain non-GAAP revenue and deferred revenue components in the tracking and forecasting of our revenue and management of our business. This includes non-GAAP revenue associated with deferred revenue that was excluded as a result of purchase accounting adjustments related to acquisitions. We believe the non-GAAP deferred revenue measures set forth above are useful to investors, and such items are used by our management, because this revenue is reflective of our ongoing operating results.
 
10
 
We believe the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operating performance by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of the Company's core business, operating results or future outlook. Our management uses, and believes that investors benefit from referring to, these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results both as a consolidated entity and at the business unit level, as well as when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods and to our peers. These measures are used by our management for the reasons associated with each of the adjusting items as described below.
 
11


