FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20080109160620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On January 8, 2008, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") announced the appointment of Enrique T. Salem, age 42, as the Company's Chief Operating Officer. From April 2007 to January 2008, Mr. Salem served as the Company's Group President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing. From May 2006 to April 2007, Mr. Salem served as the Company's Group President, Consumer Products. Mr. Salem previously served as Senior Vice President, Consumer Products and Solutions from February 2006 to May 2006, Senior Vice President, Security Products and Solutions from January 2006 to February 2006, and as Senior Vice President, Network and Gateway Security Solutions from June 2004 to February 2006. Prior to joining the Company, from April 2002 to June 2004, he was President and CEO of Brightmail Incorporated, an anti-spam software company that was acquired by the Company. From January 2001 to April 2002, Mr. Salem served as Senior Vice President of Products and Technology at Oblix Inc., an identity-based security products developer, and from October 1999 to January 2001, he was Vice President of Technology and Operations at Ask Jeeves Inc., an online search engine provider. From 1990 to October 1999, Mr. Salem led the security business unit at the Company. Mr. Salem received a Bachelor of Arts in computer science from Dartmouth College.
          The Company also announced certain changes in the positions and responsibilities of other members of senior management. A copy of the press release announcing these changes is attached as Exhibit 99.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.01
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Symantec (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced the appointment of Enrique T. Salem as its chief operating officer. Salem has more than 20 years of experience in sales, product delivery and operations and is tasked with driving operational consistency across the business. Salem will be responsible for product development, sales, services, marketing and Information Technology (IT) activities and will report to John W. Thompson, Symantec chairman and CEO.
CUPERTINO, Calif.  Jan. 9, 2008 
Salem most recently served as group president, Worldwide Sales and Marketing, leading a global team of more than 4,000 professionals. Prior to this role, he served as group president of the Consumer Business Unit, as well as senior vice president of Symantec's Security Products and Solutions. Before joining the company, Salem was president and CEO of Brightmail, the leading anti-spam software company acquired by Symantec in 2004.
"The appointment of a chief operating officer will enable us to better leverage our broad portfolio of technology and services to best meet the needs of our customers while also ensuring we maintain our focus on the long-term strategy of securing and managing the world's information," said Thompson. "Enrique is a strong leader who has proven to me and the Board that he is ready to assume broader responsibilities within our company. I am confident he will drive operational consistency across the company and help improve our ability to deliver solid results for our customers and shareholders."
The company also announced that Gregory W. Hughes, who most recently served as group president, Symantec Global Services, has been named chief strategy officer, responsible for corporate development and strategy. In addition, Hughes will focus on new business incubation, such as the Symantec Protection Network, the company's software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform, and other areas of internal investment. A proven line executive, Hughes also has a background in strategy, having spent 10 years at McKinsey & Company, where he founded and led the North American Software Industry practice. Hughes will report to Thompson.
 
Symantec Names Enrique T. Salem Chief Operating Officer Page 2 of 2
The business unit leaders will report into Salem. Thomas W. Kendra will remain as group president of the Security and Compliance Group (previously referred to as the Security and Data Management Group). Gregory S. Butterfield will continue in his interim role as group president for the Storage Management Group (previously referred to as the Data Center Management Group) and as group president of the Altiris Business Unit. Janice D. Chaffin remains group president of the Consumer Business Unit.
Finally, the company will consolidate its services business into its IT organization reporting to J. David Thompson, who was named group president, Information Technology and Services Group. This change will allow the company to better leverage its investments in IT-related services for both internal and external use. Thompson joined the company from Oracle and served in a similar capacity at PeopleSoft, before being acquired by Oracle. He will report to Salem.
Additional Resources
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in infrastructure software, enabling businesses and consumers to have confidence in a connected world. The company helps customers protect their infrastructure, information and interactions by delivering software and services that address risks to security, availability, compliance and performance. Headquartered in Cupertino, Calif., Symantec has operations in more than 40 countries. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.


