FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20080125160622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Amendment and Restatement of Symantec Corporation 2002 Executive Officers' Stock Purchase Plan
On January 22, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") resolved to amend and restate the Company's 2002 Executive Officers' Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") to delete the 10,000 share limit on the number of shares of Common Stock that may be purchased by an eligible officer in any fiscal year in connection with his or her annual incentive bonus, as well as make certain other administrative amendments to the Plan. The Plan provides the Company's executive officers who are subject to the requirements of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the opportunity to purchase the Company's common stock at fair market value by applying a portion or all of their respective bonus payments towards the purchase price. The purpose of the Plan is to provide Symantec's executive officers with a convenient means to acquire an equity interest in Symantec.
A copy of the Plan, as so amended and restated, is filed as Exhibit 10.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Appointment of Geraldine B. Laybourne to Compensation Committee
On October 29, 2007, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K to report the appointment of Geraldine B. Laybourne as a member of the Board, with such appointment to take effect on January 1, 2008. On January 22, 2008, the Board appointed Ms. Laybourne as a member of its Compensation Committee.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
1. .
PURPOSE
     The purpose of this Symantec Corporation 2002 Executive Officers' Stock Purchase Plan (the "") is to provide Executive Officers of Symantec Corporation (the "") with an opportunity to purchase Common Stock of the Company, $.01 par value (the ""), using some or all of the amounts received by Executive Officers as part of any payment made under applicable Executive Annual Incentive Plans (the "").
Plan
Company
Stock
Bonus
2. .
STOCK ISSUANCE
     Stockholder approval of this Plan was obtained on September 12, 2002. Pursuant to this Plan, any Executive Officer of the Company may elect, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3 of this Plan, to receive a portion of his or her Bonus in the form of an award of unrestricted, fully vested shares of Stock. For purposes of this Plan, an "" is any officer of the Company that has been designated as a person subject to the requirements of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Executive Officer
3. .
ELECTION BY EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
     Each Executive Officer may make an irrevocable election to receive up to 100% of the Bonus payable to such Executive Officer in the form of shares of Stock. Any such election shall be made on or before such date as the Compensation Committee (or by the Board acting as the Compensation Committee) determines, in its sole discretion, to be appropriate (the ""). An Executive Officer may specify the portion, if any, from 0% to 100%, of the Bonus that shall be paid to such Executive Officer in shares of Stock, or a maximum number of shares to be purchased using a specified portion of the Bonus; provided, that if no election is made by an Executive Officer on or before the Election Date, such Executive Officer shall be deemed not to have elected to receive any of his or her Bonus in shares of Stock. Notice of an Executive Officer's election shall be given to the corporate secretary of the Company. In the event an Executive Officer's Bonus becomes payable on other than an annual basis, then elections shall be made in the manner and at the time as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (or by the Board acting as the Compensation Committee).
Election Date
4. .
AMOUNT AND ISSUANCE OF STOCK
     Subject to Section 7 below, the number of shares of Stock to be issued to an Executive Officer pursuant to this Plan shall be the portion of the Bonus which the
 
Executive Officer has elected to be paid in Stock, divided by the closing price of the Common Stock of the Company on The Nasdaq National Market on the business day immediately preceding the date on which the Bonus is paid (with respect to any particular Bonus payment, such date is referred to as the ""). The Stock shall be issued on the Executive Officer on the business day next following the Determination Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Company's "Trading Window" (as defined in the Company's policies) for directors and executive officers is the date that would otherwise have been the Determination Date, the number of shares of Stock instead shall be based on the closing price of the Stock on the first business day on which the Trading Window is open (with respect to any particular Bonus payment, such date is referred to as the "Window Determination Date"), and the Stock shall be issued on the business day next following the Window Determination Date. In the event that an executive Officer has specified the maximum number of shares to be purchased, the number of shares to be issued shall not exceed that number. If there are insufficient shares of Stock reserved for issuance under this Plan to satisfy elections made by all Executive Officers in a calendar year, then the available shares of Stock shall be allocated among Executive Officers in proportion to their respective elections.
Determination Date
5. .
NUMBER OF SHARES RESERVED FOR ISSUANCE
     The aggregate number of shares of Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be 250,000 shares. In the event that the number of outstanding shares of Stock is changed by a stock dividend, recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, subdivision, combination, reclassification or similar change in the capital structure of the Company without consideration, then the number of shares reserved for issuance under this Plan will be proportionately adjusted.
6. .
ADMINISTRATION OF PLAN
     . This Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee or by the Board acting as the Compensation Committee. Subject to the general purposes, terms and conditions of this Plan, and to the direction of the Board of Directors, the Compensation Committee shall have full power to implement and carry out this Plan. Without limitation, the Compensation Committee shall have the authority to: (i) construe and interpret this Plan and any other agreement or document executed pursuant to this Plan; (ii) prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to this Plan; (iii) correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in this Plan or any agreement; and (iv) make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of this Plan. Any determination made by the Compensation Committee will be made in its sole discretion and such determination will be final and binding on the Company and on all persons having an interest under this Plan.
Compensation Committee Authority
 
7. .
WITHHOLDING TAXES
     Whenever shares of Stock are to be issued under this Plan, the Company may require the Executive Officer to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state and local withholding tax requirements prior to the delivery of any certificate or certificates for such shares of Stock. When, under applicable tax laws, an Executive Officer incurs tax liability under this Plan and the Executive Officer is obligated to pay the Company the amount required to be withheld, the Compensation Committee may allow the Executive Officer to satisfy the minimum withholding tax obligation by electing to have the Company withhold from the shares of Stock to be issued that number of shares of Stock having a fair market value equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld, determined on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. All elections to have shares of Stock withheld for this purpose will be made in writing in a form acceptable to the Compensation Committee.
8. .
PRIVILEGES OF STOCK OWNERSHIP
     No Executive Officer will have any of the rights of a stockholder with respect to any shares of Stock until the shares of Stock are issued to the Executive Officer. After shares of Stock are issued to the Executive Officer, the Executive Officer will be a stockholder and have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to such Stock, including the right to vote and receive all dividends or other distributions made or paid with respect to such Stock.
9. .
CERTIFICATES
     All certificates for Stock or other securities delivered under this Plan will be subject to such stock transfer orders, legends and other restrictions as the Compensation Committee may deem necessary or advisable, including restrictions under any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law, or any rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any stock exchange or automated quotation system upon which the shares of Stock may be listed or quoted. In lieu of Stock certificates, the Company may provide evidence of shares through electronic means consistent with its practices with respect to other employee stockholders.
10. .
SECURITIES LAW AND OTHER REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
     A transfer of shares of Stock will not occur unless such transfer is in compliance with all applicable federal and state securities laws, rules and regulations of any governmental body, and the requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system upon which the shares of Stock may then be listed or quoted, as they are in effect on the date of grant of transfer of shares of Stock. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan, the Company will have no obligation to issue or deliver certificates for shares of Stock under this Plan prior to: (a) obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that the Company determines are necessary or advisable; and/or (b) completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares of Stock under any state or federal
 
law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be necessary or advisable. The Company will be under no obligation to register the shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission or to effect compliance with the registration, qualification or listing requirements of any state securities laws, stock exchange or automated quotation system, and the Company will have no liability for any inability or failure to do so.
11. .
NO OBLIGATION TO EMPLOY
     Nothing in this Plan will confer or be deemed to confer on any Executive Officer any right to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any parent, subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any parent, subsidiary or affiliate of the Company to terminate Executive Officer's employment or other relationship at any time, with or without cause.
12. .
ADOPTION OF PLAN AND EFFECTIVE DATE
     This Plan became effective on September 12, 2002 (the "").
Effective Date


