FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20080924211752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
          The stockholders of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "EIP") and the adoption of the Company's 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "New ESPP") at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company held on September 22, 2008 (the "Annual Meeting"). The Board of Directors of the Company approved the EIP amendments and New ESPP on April 29, 2008, subject to stockholder approval at the Annual Meeting. Accordingly, the EIP amendments and New ESPP became effective upon stockholder approval at the Annual Meeting. The Company's named executive officers may participate in each of these plans. Descriptions of the material EIP amendments and New ESPP follow.
          As a result of stockholder approval of the amendment and restatement of the EIP at the Annual Meeting, the EIP was amended to reserve an additional 50,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock for issuance thereunder.
          As a result of stockholder approval of the New ESPP at the Annual Meeting, the New ESPP became effective and a total of 20,000,000 shares of common stock became reserved for issuance thereunder, with the first purchase period thereunder commencing on February 16, 2009. The New ESPP replaces the 1998 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended, which terminates pursuant to its terms on January 1, 2009 subject to completion of the final purchase period under the 1998 Employee Stock Purchase Plan on February 15, 2009. Subject to certain limitations, the Company's employees may elect to have 2% to 10% of their compensation withheld through payroll deductions to purchase shares of common stock under the New ESPP. These participants have the right to purchase shares of common stock at a price per share equal to 85% of the fair market value on the purchase date at the end of each six-month purchase period. The maximum number of shares of common stock that a participant may purchase on each purchase date is 10,000 shares, and no participant may accrue the right to purchase shares of common stock at an annual rate of more than $25,000, valued at the time each purchase right is granted.
          The foregoing descriptions of the EIP and New ESPP are qualified in their entirety by reference to the EIP or New ESPP, as the case may be, copies of which are filed as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
     1. The purpose of this Plan is to provide incentives to attract, retain and motivate eligible persons whose present and potential contributions are important to the success of the Company, its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates, by offering them an opportunity to participate in the Company's future performance through awards of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Units, and Restricted Stock Awards. Capitalized terms not defined in the text are defined in Section 25.
Purpose.
     2. 
Shares Subject to the Plan.
     2.1 Subject to Sections 2.2 and 18, the total number of Shares reserved and available for grant and issuance pursuant to this Plan will be one hundred eight million (108,000,000) Shares plus up to fifty-five million four hundred thousand (55,400,000) shares subject to awards granted under the Company's 1996 Equity Incentive Plan that cancel, forfeit (e.g., upon the Participant's Termination) or otherwise expire by their terms on or following the adoption of this Plan.
Number of Shares Available.
          Any award other than an Option or a SAR shall reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under this Plan by two Shares for every Share issued. Subject to Sections 2.2 and 18, Shares that: (a) are subject to issuance upon exercise of an Option but cease to be subject to such Option for any reason other than exercise of such Option; (b) are subject to an Award granted hereunder but are forfeited or are repurchased by the Company at the original issue price; or (c) are subject to an Award that otherwise terminates without Shares being issued will again be available for grant and issuance in connection with future Awards under this Plan. The following Shares may not again be made available for future grant and issuance as Awards under the Plan: (i) Shares that are withheld to pay the exercise or purchase price of an Award or to satisfy any tax withholding obligations in connection with an Award, (ii) Shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an outstanding Option or SAR or (iii) shares of the Company's Common Stock repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise price. At all times the Company shall reserve and keep available a sufficient number of Shares as shall be required to satisfy the requirements of all outstanding Awards granted under this Plan.
     2.2 In the event that the number of outstanding Shares is changed by a stock dividend, recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, subdivision, combination, reclassification or similar change in the capital structure of the Company without consideration or there is a change in the corporate structure (including, without limitation, a spin-off), then (a) the number of Shares reserved for issuance under this Plan, (b) the Exercise Prices of and number of Shares subject to outstanding Options, (c) the number of Shares that may be granted pursuant to Section 3 below, and (d) the Purchase Price and number of Shares subject to other outstanding Awards, including Restricted Stock Awards, will be proportionately adjusted, subject to any required action by the Board or the stockholders of the Company and compliance with applicable securities laws; that fractions of a Share will not be issued but will be rounded down to the nearest whole Share, and may be replaced by a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value of such fraction of a Share, as determined by the Committee.
Adjustment of Shares.
provided, however,
     3. ISOs (as defined in Section 5 below) may be granted only to employees (including officers and directors who are also employees) of the Company or of a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. All other Awards may be granted to employees, officers, directors, consultants, independent contractors and advisors of the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company; such consultants, contractors and advisors render bona fide services not in connection with the offer and sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction; and that unless otherwise determined by the Board, non-employee directors shall receive Restricted Stock Units only pursuant to the formula award provisions set forth in Section 6. No person will be eligible to receive more than 2,000,000 Shares in any calendar year under this Plan, pursuant to the grant of Awards hereunder, of which no more than 400,000 Shares shall be covered by Awards of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, other than new employees of the Company or of a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company (including new employees who are also officers and directors of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company), who are eligible to receive up to a maximum of 3,000,000 Shares in the calendar year in which they commence their employment, of
Eligibility.
provided
provided further,
 
which no more than 600,000 Shares shall be covered by Awards of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units. For purposes of these limits only, each Restricted Stock Unit settled in Shares (but not those settled in cash), shall be deemed to cover one Share. A person may be granted more than one Award under this Plan.
     4. 
Administration.
     4.1 This Plan will be administered by the Committee or by the Board acting as the Committee. Subject to the general purposes, terms and conditions of this Plan, and to the direction of the Board, except as provided in Section 6, the Committee will have full power to implement and carry out this Plan. Without limitation, the Committee will have the authority to:
Committee Authority.
     (a) construe and interpret this Plan, any Award Agreement and any other agreement or document executed pursuant to this Plan;
     (b) prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to this Plan or any Award;
     (c) select persons to receive Awards;
     (d) determine the form and terms of Awards;
     (e) determine the number of Shares or other consideration subject to Awards;
     (f) determine whether Awards will be granted singly, in combination with, in tandem with, in replacement of, or as alternatives to, other Awards under this Plan or any other incentive or compensation plan of the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company;
     (g) grant waivers of Plan or Award conditions;
     (h) determine the vesting, exercisability and payment of Awards;
     (i) correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in this Plan, any Award or any Award Agreement;
     (j) amend any Award Agreements executed in connection with this Plan;
     (k) determine whether an Award has been earned; and
     (l) make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of this Plan.
     4.2 Any determination made by the Committee with respect to any Award will be made in its sole discretion at the time of grant of the Award or, unless in contravention of any express term of this Plan or Award, at any later time, and such determination will be final and binding on the Company and on all persons having an interest in any Award under this Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable laws, the Committee may delegate to one or more officers of the Company the authority to grant an Award under this Plan to Participants who are not Insiders of the Company.
Committee Discretion.
     4.3 If two or more members of the Board are Outside Directors, the Committee will be comprised of at least two (2) members of the Board, at least two (2) of whom are Outside Directors. To the extent desirable to qualify transactions hereunder as exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act (""), Awards to officers and directors shall be made by the entire Board or a Committee of two or more "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3. In addition, the Plan will be administered in a manner that complies with any applicable Nasdaq Global Select Market or stock exchange listing requirements.
Section 
162(m)
, Rule 16b-3 and Stock Exchange Requirements.
Rule 16b-3
     5. The Committee may grant Options to eligible persons and will determine whether such Options will be Incentive Stock Options within the meaning of the Code or Nonqualified Stock Options
Options.
("ISOs")
("NQSOs"),
 
the number of Shares subject to the Option, the Exercise Price of the Option (subject to Section 5.4 below), the circumstances upon and the period during which the Option may be exercised, and all other terms and conditions of the Option, subject to the following:
     5.1 Each Option granted under this Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement which will expressly identify the Option as an ISO or an NQSO and will be in such form and contain such provisions (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee may from time to time approve, and which will comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan. To the extent that any Option designated as an ISO in the Award Agreement fails to qualify as such under applicable law, it shall be treated instead as a NQSO.
Form of Option Grant.
("Stock Option Agreement"),
     5.2 The date of grant of an Option will be the date on which the Committee makes the determination to grant such Option, unless a later date is otherwise specified by the Committee at the time it acts to approve the grant. The Stock Option Agreement and a copy of this Plan will be delivered to the Participant within a reasonable time after the granting of the Option.
Date of Grant.
     5.3 Options will be exercisable within the times or upon the events determined by the Committee as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement governing such Option; that no Option will be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Option is granted; and provided further that no ISO granted to a person who directly or by attribution owns more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company will be exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from the date the ISO is granted. The Committee also may provide for the exercise of Options to become exercisable at one time or from time to time, periodically or otherwise (including, without limitation, the attainment during a Performance Period of performance goals based on Performance Factors), in such number of Shares or percentage of Shares as the Committee determines.
Exercise Period.
provided, however,
("Ten Percent Stockholder")
     5.4 The Exercise Price of an Option will be determined by the Committee when the Option is granted and may not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant; that the Exercise Price of any ISO granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder will not be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant. Payment for the Shares purchased may be made in accordance with Section 10 of this Plan.
Exercise Price.
provided
     5.5 Options may be exercised only by delivery to the Company of a written or electronic notice or agreement of stock option exercise (the ) in a form approved by the Committee (which need not be the same for each Participant), stating the number of Shares being purchased, the restrictions imposed on the Shares purchased under such Exercise Agreement, if any, and such representations and agreements regarding Participant's investment intent and access to information and other matters, if any, as may be required or desirable by the Company to comply with applicable securities laws, together with payment in full of the Exercise Price for the number of Shares being purchased and all applicable withholding taxes.
Method of Exercise.
"Exercise Agreement"
     5.6 Notwithstanding the exercise periods set forth in the Stock Option Agreement, exercise of an Option will always be subject to the following:
Termination.
     (a) If the Participant is Terminated for any reason except death or Disability, then the Participant may exercise such Participant's Options only to the extent that such Options are vested and exercisable upon the Termination Date no later than three (3) months after the Termination Date (or such shorter or longer time period not exceeding five (5) years as may be determined by the Committee, with any exercise beyond three (3) months after the Termination Date deemed to be an NQSO), but in any event, no later than the expiration date of the Options.
     (b) If the Participant is Terminated because of Participant's death or Disability (or the Participant dies within three (3) months after a Termination other than because of Participant's death or disability), then Participant's Options may be exercised only to the extent that such Options are vested and exercisable by Participant on the Termination Date and must be exercised by Participant (or Participant's legal representative or authorized assignee) no later than twelve (12) months after the Termination Date (or such shorter or longer time period not exceeding five (5) years as may be determined by the Committee, with any such exercise beyond (a) three (3) months after the
 
Termination Date when the Termination is for any reason other than the Participant's death or Disability, or (b) twelve (12) months after the Termination Date when the Termination is for Participant's death or Disability, deemed to be an NQSO), but in any event no later than the expiration date of the Options.
     5.7 The Committee may specify a reasonable minimum number of Shares that may be purchased on any exercise of an Option, that such minimum number will not prevent Participant from exercising the Option for the full number of Shares for which it is then exercisable.
Limitations on Exercise.
provided
     5.8 The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the date of grant) of Shares with respect to which ISOs are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year (under this Plan or under any other incentive stock option plan of the Company or any Affiliate, Parent or Subsidiary of the Company) will not exceed $100,000. If the Fair Market Value of Shares on the date of grant with respect to which ISOs are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year exceeds $100,000, then the Options for the first $100,000 worth of Shares to become exercisable in such calendar year will be ISOs and the Options for the amount in excess of $100,000 that become exercisable in that calendar year will be NQSOs. In the event that the Code or the regulations promulgated thereunder are amended after the Effective Date of this Plan to provide for a different limit on the Fair Market Value of Shares permitted to be subject to ISOs, such different limit will be automatically incorporated herein and will apply to any Options granted after the effective date of such amendment.
Limitations on ISOs.
     5.9 The Committee may modify, extend or renew outstanding Options and authorize the grant of new Options in substitution therefor, that (a) any such action may not, without the written consent of a Participant, impair any of such Participant's rights under any Option previously granted; (b) any outstanding ISO that is modified, extended, renewed or otherwise altered will be treated in accordance with Section 424(h) of the Code; and (c) notwithstanding anything to the contrary elsewhere in the Plan, the Company is subject to Section 21.2 below with respect to any proposal to reprice outstanding Options.
Modification, Extension or Renewal.
provided
     5.10 Notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan, no term of this Plan relating to ISOs will be interpreted, amended or altered, nor will any discretion or authority granted under this Plan be exercised, so as to disqualify this Plan under Section 422 of the Code or, without the consent of the Participant affected, to disqualify any ISO under Section 422 of the Code.
No Disqualification.
     6. . Each continuing non-employee director shall receive an annual grant of RSUs having a Fair Market Value on the date of grant equal to $180,000, and such RSUs shall be granted on the first business day following the Company's first regular Board meeting of the Company's fiscal year. RSUs granted pursuant to this Section 6 on an annual basis vest on the first anniversary following the date of grant, provided the non-employee director serves on the Board on such vesting date, and shall be settled within 30 days of vesting by distribution of Shares to the non-employee director. New non-employee directors shall be granted initial RSUs having a Fair Market Value on the date of grant equal to $180,000 on the first business day following such new non-employee director's election to the Board, with such amount prorated based on the number of days from such non-employee director's election to the Board to, and including, the Company's first regular Board meeting of the following fiscal year. RSUs granted to new non-employee directors pursuant to the preceding sentence vest on the first anniversary of the grant date, provided the non-employee director serves on the Board on such date, and shall be settled within 30 days of vesting by distribution of Shares to the non-employee director.
Non-Employee Director Equity Awards
     7. A Restricted Stock Award is an offer by the Company to issue to an eligible person Shares that are subject to restrictions. The Committee will determine to whom an offer will be made, the number of Shares the person may be issued or purchase, the Purchase Price (if any), the restrictions to which the Shares will be subject, and all other terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Award, subject to the following:
Restricted Stock Awards.
     7.1 All purchases under a Restricted Stock Award will be evidenced by a written agreement (the ""), which will be in substantially a form (which need not be the same for each Participant) that the Committee shall from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. A Participant can accept a Restricted Stock Award only by signing and delivering to the Company the Restricted Stock Agreement, and full payment of the Purchase Price (if any) and all applicable withholding taxes, at such time and on such terms as required by the Committee. If the Participant does not accept
Restricted Stock Agreement.
Restricted Stock Agreement
 
the Restricted Stock Award at such time and on such terms as required by the Committee, then the offer of the Restricted Stock Award will terminate, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
     7.2 The Purchase Price (if any) for a Restricted Stock Award will be determined by the Committee, and may be less than Fair Market Value on the date the Restricted Stock Award is granted. Payment of the Purchase Price must be made in accordance with Section 10 of this Plan and as permitted in the Restricted Stock Agreement, and in accordance with any procedures established by the Company.
Purchase Price.
     7.3 Restricted Stock Awards will be subject to all restrictions, if any, that the Committee may impose. These restrictions may be based on completion of a specified period of service with the Company and/or upon completion of the performance goals as set out in advance in the Restricted Stock Agreement, which shall be in such form and contain such provisions (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee shall from time to time approve, and which will comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan. Prior to the grant of a Restricted Stock Award, the Committee shall: (a) determine the nature, length and starting date of any Performance Period for the Restricted Stock Award; (b) select performance criteria, including if the Award is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) from among the Performance Factors, to be used to measure performance goals, if any; and (c) determine the number of Shares that may be awarded to the Participant. For Restricted Stock Awards intended to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, the performance goals will be determined at a time when the achievement of the performance goals remains substantially uncertain and shall otherwise be administered in a manner that complies with the requirements under that statute. Performance Periods may overlap and a Participant may participate simultaneously with respect to Restricted Stock Awards that are subject to different Performance Periods and having different performance goals and other criteria.
Terms of Restricted Stock Awards.
     7.4 Restricted Stock Awards shall cease to vest immediately if a Participant is Terminated during the vesting period or Performance Period applicable to the Award for any reason, unless the Committee determines otherwise, and any unvested Shares subject to such Restricted Stock Awards shall be subject to the Company's right to repurchase such Shares or otherwise to any forfeiture condition applicable to the Award, as described in Section 14 of this Plan, if and as set forth in the applicable Restricted Stock Agreement.
Termination During Vesting or Performance Period.
     8. . A Restricted Stock Unit (or RSU) is an award covering a number of Shares that may be settled in cash, or by issuance of those Shares (which may consist of Restricted Stock). A RSU may be awarded for past services already rendered to the Company, or any Affiliate, Parent or Subsidiary of the Company pursuant to an Award Agreement (the "") that will be in such form (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee will from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject to the following:
Restricted Stock Units
RSU Agreement
     8.1 . RSUs may vary from Participant to Participant and between groups of Participants, and may be based upon the achievement of the Company, Affiliate, Parent or Subsidiary and/or individual performance factors or upon such other criteria as the Committee may determine. The Committee will determine all terms of each RSU including, without limitation: the number of Shares subject to each RSU, the time or times during which each RSU shall vest and the RSU be settled, the consideration to be distributed on such settlement, and the effect on each RSU of its holder's Termination. A RSU may be awarded upon satisfaction of such performance goals as are set out in advance in the Participant's individual Award Agreement (the "") that will be in such form (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee will from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan. If the RSU is being earned upon the satisfaction of performance goals pursuant to a Performance RSU Agreement, then the Committee will: (a) determine the nature, length and starting date of any Performance Period for each RSU; (b) select performance criteria, including if the Award is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) from among the Performance Factors, to be used to measure performance goals, if any; and (c) determine the number of Shares deemed subject to the RSU. For RSUs intended to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, the performance goals will be determined at a time when the achievement of the performance goals remains substantially uncertain and shall otherwise be administered in a manner that complies with the requirements under that statute. Prior to settlement of any RSU earned upon the satisfaction of performance goals pursuant to a Performance RSU Agreement, the Committee shall determine the extent to which such RSU has been earned. Performance Periods may overlap and Participants may participate simultaneously with respect to RSUs that
Terms of RSUs
Performance RSU Agreement
 
are subject to different Performance Periods and different performance goals and other criteria. The number of Shares may be fixed or may vary in accordance with such performance goals and criteria as may be determined by the Committee. The Committee may adjust the performance goals applicable to the RSUs to take into account changes in law and accounting or tax rules and to make such adjustments as the Committee deems necessary or appropriate to reflect the impact of extraordinary or unusual items, events or circumstances to avoid windfalls or hardships.
     8.2 . The portion of a RSU being settled may be paid currently or on a deferred basis with such interest or dividend equivalent, if any, as the Committee may determine. Payment may be made in the form of cash or whole Shares or a combination thereof, either in a lump sum payment or in installments, all as the Committee will determine.
Form and Timing of Exercise
     9. . A Stock Appreciation Right (or SAR) is an award that may be exercised for cash or Shares (which may consist of Restricted Stock), having a value equal to the value determined by multiplying the difference between the Fair Market Value on the date of settlement over the Exercise Price and the number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is being settled. A SAR may be awarded for past services already rendered to the Company, or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company pursuant to an Award Agreement (the "") that will be in such form (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee will from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject to the following:
Stock Appreciation Rights
SAR Agreement
     9.1 . SARs may vary from Participant to Participant and between groups of Participants, and may be based upon the achievement of the Company, Parent or Subsidiary and/or individual performance factors or upon such other criteria as the Committee may determine. The Committee will determine all terms of each SAR including, without limitation: the number of Shares deemed subject to each SAR, the time or times during which each SAR may be settled, the consideration to be distributed on settlement, and the effect on each SAR of its holder's Termination. The Exercise Price of a SAR will be determined by the Committee when the SAR is granted and may not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant. A SAR may be awarded upon satisfaction of such performance goals as are set out in advance in the Participant's individual Award Agreement (the "") that will be in such form (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the Committee will from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan. If the SAR is being earned upon the satisfaction of performance goals pursuant to a Performance SAR Agreement, then the Committee will: (a) determine the nature, length and starting date of any Performance Period for each SAR; (b) select performance criteria, including if the Award is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) from among the Performance Factors, to be used to measure performance goals, if any; and (c) determine the number of Shares deemed subject to the SAR. Prior to exercise of any SAR earned upon the satisfaction of performance goals pursuant to a Performance SAR Agreement, the Committee shall determine the extent to which such SAR has been earned. Performance Periods may overlap and Participants may participate simultaneously with respect to SARs that are subject to different Performance Periods and different performance goals and other criteria. The number of Shares may be fixed or may vary in accordance with such performance goals and criteria as may be determined by the Committee. The Committee may adjust the performance goals applicable to the SARs to take into account changes in law and accounting or tax rules and to make such adjustments as the Committee deems necessary or appropriate to reflect the impact of extraordinary or unusual items, events or circumstances to avoid windfalls or hardships. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary elsewhere in the Plan, the Company is subject to Section 21.2 below with respect to any proposal to reprice outstanding SARs. The term of a SAR shall be ten (10) years from the date the SAR is awarded or such shorter term as may be provided in the Award Agreement.
Terms of SARs
Performance SAR Agreement
     9.2 . The portion of a SAR being settled may be paid currently or on a deferred basis with such interest or dividend equivalent, if any, as the Committee may determine. Payment may be made in the form of cash or whole Shares or a combination thereof, either in a lump sum payment or in installments, all as the Committee will determine.
Form and Timing of Settlement
     10. Payment for Shares purchased pursuant to this Plan may be made in cash, by check or by wire transfer or, where expressly approved for the Participant by the Committee and where permitted by law:
Payment for Share Purchases.
 
     (a) by cancellation of indebtedness of the Company to the Participant;
     (b) by surrender of shares that either: (1) have been owned by Participant for more than six (6) months and have been paid for within the meaning of SEC Rule 144 (and, if such shares were purchased from the Company by use of a promissory note, such note has been fully paid with respect to such shares); or (2) were obtained by Participant in the public market;
     (c) cashless "net exercise" arrangement pursuant to which the Company will reduce the number of Shares issued upon exercise by the largest whole number of Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value that does not exceed the aggregate exercise price; provided that the Company shall accept a cash or other payment from the Participant to the extent of any remaining balance of the exercise price not satisfied by such reduction in the number of whole Shares to be issued;
     (d) by waiver of compensation due or accrued to the Participant for services rendered;
     (e) with respect only to purchases upon exercise of an Option, and provided that a public market for the Company's stock exists, through a "same day sale" commitment from the Participant and a broker-dealer that is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers (an ) whereby the Participant irrevocably elects to exercise the Option and to sell a portion of the Shares so purchased to pay for the Exercise Price and any applicable withholding obligations, and whereby the NASD Dealer irrevocably commits upon receipt of such Shares to forward the Exercise Price directly to the Company;
"NASD Dealer"
     (f) by such other consideration and method of payment as permitted by the Committee and applicable law; or
     (g) by any combination of the foregoing.
     11. 
Withholding Taxes.
     11.1 It shall be a condition to the grant of an Award under this Plan that the Participant satisfy any tax withholding or similar obligations applicable to the Award that may be legally imposed upon the Participant. Whenever Awards are to be granted or Shares are to be issued in satisfaction of Awards granted under this Plan, the Participant shall make such arrangements as the Company may require to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, local, or foreign withholding tax requirements prior to the delivery of any Award Agreement or certificate or certificates for Award Shares. Whenever, under this Plan, payments in satisfaction of Awards are to be made in cash, such payment will be net of an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local withholding tax requirements.
Withholding Generally.
     11.2 When, under applicable tax laws, a Participant incurs tax liability in connection with the grant, exercise or vesting of any Award that is subject to tax withholding and the Participant is obligated to pay the Company the amount required to be withheld, the Committee may allow the Participant to satisfy the minimum withholding tax obligation by electing to have the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued that number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld, determined on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined (the ). All elections by a Participant to have Shares withheld for this purpose will be made in writing in a form and during a period acceptable to the Committee.
Stock Withholding.
"Tax Date"
     12. Except to the extent that the Committee grants an RSU that entitles the Participant to credit for dividends paid on Award Shares prior to the date such Shares are issued to the Participant (as reflected in the RSU Agreement), no Participant will have any of the rights of a stockholder with respect to any Shares until the Shares are issued to the Participant. After Shares are issued to the Participant, the Participant will be a stockholder and have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to such Shares, including the right to vote and receive all dividends or other distributions made or paid with respect to such Shares; that if such Shares are restricted stock, then any new, additional or different securities the Participant may become entitled to receive with respect to such Shares by virtue of a stock dividend, stock split or any other change in the corporate or capital structure of the Company will be subject to the same restrictions as the restricted stock; that the Participant will have no right to retain such stock dividends or stock distributions with
Privileges of Stock Ownership; Voting and Dividends.
provided,
provided, further,
 
respect to Shares that are repurchased at the Participant's original Purchase Price or otherwise forfeited to the Company.
     13. Awards granted under this Plan, and any interest therein, will not be transferable or assignable by Participant, and may not be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process, otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or as consistent with the specific Plan and Award Agreement provisions relating thereto. All Awards shall be exercisable: (i) during the Participant's lifetime, only by (A) the Participant, or (B) the Participant's guardian or legal representative; and (ii) after Participant's death, by the legal representative of the Participant's heirs or legatees.
Transferability.
     14. At the discretion of the Committee, the Company may reserve to itself and/or its assignee(s) in the Award Agreement a right to repurchase a portion of or all Shares that are not vested held by a Participant following such Participant's Termination at any time specified after the Participant's Termination Date, for cash and/or cancellation of purchase money indebtedness, at the Participant's original Exercise Price or Purchase Price, as the case may be. Alternatively, at the discretion of the Committee, Award Shares issued to the Participant for which the Participant did not pay any Exercise or Purchase Price may be forfeited to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the Award Agreement. All certificates for Shares or other securities delivered under this Plan will be subject to such stock transfer orders, legends and other restrictions as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable, including restrictions under any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law, or any rules, regulations and other requirements of the SEC or any stock exchange or automated quotation system upon which the Shares may be listed or quoted.
Restrictions on Shares.
     15. To enforce any restrictions on a Participant's Shares, the Committee may require the Participant to deposit all certificates representing Shares, together with stock powers or other instruments of transfer approved by the Committee, appropriately endorsed in blank, with the Company or an agent designated by the Company to hold in escrow until such restrictions have lapsed or terminated, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends referencing such restrictions to be placed on the certificates.
Escrow; Pledge of Shares.
     16. The Committee may, at any time or from time to time, authorize the Company, with the consent of the respective Participants, to issue new Awards in exchange for the surrender and cancellation of any or all outstanding Awards. This Section shall not be construed to defeat the requirements of Section 21.2 with respect to any proposed repricing of Options or SARs.
Exchange and Buyout of Awards.
     17. An Award will not be effective unless such Award is in compliance with all applicable federal and state securities laws, rules and regulations of any governmental body, and the requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system upon which the Shares may then be listed or quoted, as they are in effect on the date of grant of the Award and also on the date of exercise or other issuance. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan, the Company will have no obligation, and no liability for failure, to issue Shares or deliver certificates for Shares under this Plan prior to: (a) obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that the Company determines are necessary or advisable; and/or (b) completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be necessary or advisable. The Company will be under no obligation to register the Shares with the SEC or to effect compliance with the registration, qualification or listing requirements of any state securities laws, stock exchange or automated quotation system, and the Company will have no liability for any inability or failure to do so.
Securities Law and Other Regulatory Compliance.
     18. 
Corporate Transactions.
     18.1 In the event of (a) a dissolution or liquidation of the Company, (b) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving corporation (a merger or consolidation with a wholly-owned subsidiary, a reincorporation of the Company in a different jurisdiction, or other transaction in which there is no substantial change in the stockholders of the Company or their relative stock holdings and the Awards granted under this Plan are assumed, converted or replaced by the successor corporation, which assumption will be binding on all Participants), (c) a merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation but after which the stockholders of the Company (other than any stockholder which merges (or which owns or controls another corporation which merges) with the Company in such merger) cease to own their shares or
Assumption or Replacement of Awards by Successor.
other than
 
other equity interests in the Company, (d) the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, or (e) any other transaction which qualifies as a "corporate transaction" under Section 424(a) of the Code wherein the stockholders of the Company give up all of their equity interest in the Company (for the acquisition, sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the outstanding shares of the Company from or by the stockholders of the Company), any or all outstanding Awards may be assumed, converted or replaced by the successor corporation (if any), which assumption, conversion or replacement will be binding on all Participants, or the successor corporation may substitute equivalent awards or provide substantially similar consideration to Participants as was provided to stockholders (after taking into account the existing provisions of the Awards); provided that all formula Restricted Stock Unit grants, pursuant to Section 6 shall accelerate and be fully vested upon such merger, consolidation or corporate transaction. In the event such successor corporation (if any) fails to assume or substitute Awards pursuant to a transaction described in this Subsection 18.1, all such Awards will expire on such transaction at such time and on such conditions as the Board shall determine.
except
     18.2 Subject to any greater rights granted to Participants under the foregoing provisions of this Section 18, in the event of the occurrence of any transaction described in Section 18.1, any outstanding Awards will be treated as provided in the applicable agreement or plan of merger, consolidation, dissolution, liquidation, sale of assets or other "corporate transaction."
Other Treatment of Awards.
     18.3 The Company, from time to time, also may substitute or assume outstanding awards granted by another company, whether in connection with an acquisition of such other company or otherwise, by either; (a) granting an Award under this Plan in substitution of such other company's award; or (b) assuming such award as if it had been granted under this Plan if the terms of such assumed award could be applied to an Award granted under this Plan. Such substitution or assumption will be permissible if the holder of the substituted or assumed award would have been eligible to be granted an Award under this Plan if the other company had applied the rules of this Plan to such grant. In the event the Company assumes an award granted by another company, the terms and conditions of such award will remain unchanged (that the exercise price and the number and nature of Shares issuable upon exercise of any such option will be adjusted appropriately pursuant to Section 424(a) of the Code). In the event the Company elects to grant a new Option rather than assuming an existing option, such new Option may be granted with a similarly adjusted Exercise Price.
Assumption of Awards by the Company.
except
     19. Nothing in this Plan or any Award granted under this Plan will confer or be deemed to confer on any Participant any right to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company to terminate Participant's employment or other relationship at any time, with or without cause. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if a Participant is Terminated because of such Participant's actual or alleged commitment of a criminal act or an intentional tort and the Company (or an employee of the Company) is the victim or object of such criminal act or intentional tort or such criminal act or intentional tort results, in the reasonable opinion of the Company, in liability, loss, damage or injury to the Company, then, at the Company's election, Participant's Awards shall not be exercisable or settleable and shall terminate and expire upon the Participant's Termination Date. Termination by the Company based on a Participant's alleged commitment of a criminal act or an intentional tort shall be based on a reasonable investigation of the facts and a determination by the Company that a preponderance of the evidence discovered in such investigation indicates that such Participant is guilty of such criminal act or intentional tort.
No Obligation to Employ; Accelerated Expiration of Award for Harmful Act.
     20. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, to the extent that the Committee determines that any Award granted under the Plan is subject to Code Section 409A and unless otherwise specified in the applicable Award Agreement, the Award Agreement evidencing such Award shall incorporate the terms and conditions necessary for such Award to avoid the consequences described in Code Section 409A(a)(1), and to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law (and unless otherwise stated in the applicable Award Agreement), the Plan and the Award Agreements shall be interpreted in a manner that results in their conforming to the requirements of Code Section 409A(a)(2), (3) and (4) and any Department of Treasury or Internal Revenue Service regulations or other interpretive guidance issued under Section 409A (whenever issued, the "Guidance"). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan (and unless the Award Agreement provides otherwise, with specific reference to this sentence), to the extent that a Participant holding an Award that constitutes "deferred compensation" under Section 409A and the Guidance is a "specified employee" at the time of his or her
Compliance with Section 409A
 
"separation from service" (as each is defined under Section 409A and applicable Guidance), no distribution or payment of any amount shall be made before a date that is six (6) months following the date of such Participant's separation from service or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death within such six (6) month period.
     21. 
Certain Stockholder Approval Matters.
          21.1 This Plan became effective on July 20, 2004 (the ) and the amendment and restatement of this Plan became effective on September 22, 2008. Any amendment to this Plan increasing the number of Shares available for issuance hereunder shall be approved by the stockholders of the Company, consistent with applicable laws, within twelve (12) months before or after the effective date of such amendment (""). Upon the Amendment Effective Date, the Board may grant Awards covering such additional Shares pursuant to this Plan; that: (a) no Option granted pursuant to such increase in the number of Shares subject to this Plan approved by the Board may be exercised prior to the time such increase has been approved by the stockholders of the Company; and (b) in the event that stockholder approval of any such amendment increasing the number of Shares subject to this Plan is not obtained, all Awards covering such additional Shares granted hereunder will be canceled, any Shares issued pursuant to any Award will be canceled, and any purchase of Shares hereunder will be rescinded.
Plan Effectiveness; Increasing Plan Shares.
"Effective Date"
Amendment Effective Date
provided, however,
          21.2 Except in connection with a corporate transaction involving the Company (including without limitation any stock dividend, recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, subdivision, combination, reclassification, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off or exchange of shares), the terms of outstanding Awards may not without stockholder approval be amended to reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or SARs, or to cancel outstanding Options or SARs in exchange either for (a) cash, or (b) new Options, SARS or other Awards with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original (cancelled) Options or SARs.
Repricing Matters.
     22. Unless earlier terminated as provided herein, this Plan will terminate on July 20, 2014.
Term of Plan.
     23. The Board may at any time terminate or amend this Plan in any respect, including without limitation amendment of Section 6 of this Plan; that the Board will not, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, amend this Plan to increase the number of shares that may be issued under this Plan, change the designation of employees or class of employees eligible for participation in this Plan, take any action in conflict with Section 21.2 above, or otherwise materially modify a provision of the Plan if such modification requires stockholder approval under Nasdaq rules.
Amendment or Termination of Plan.
provided, however,
     24. Neither the adoption of this Plan by the Board, the submission of this Plan to the stockholders of the Company for approval, nor any provision of this Plan will be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board to adopt such additional compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable, including, without limitation, the granting of stock options and bonuses otherwise than under this Plan, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
Nonexclusivity of the Plan.
     25. As used in this Plan, the following terms will have the following meanings:
Definitions.
     means any corporation that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, another corporation, where "control" (including the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with") means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to cause the direction of the management and policies of the corporation, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
"Affiliate"
     means any award under this Plan, including any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Unit, or Restricted Stock Award.
"Award"
     means, with respect to each Award, the signed written agreement between the Company and the Participant setting forth the terms and conditions of the Award.
"Award Agreement"
     means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
 
     means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code"
     means the committee appointed by the Board to administer this Plan, or if no such committee is appointed, the Board.
"Committee"
     means Symantec Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, or any successor corporation.
"Company"
     means a disability, whether temporary or permanent, partial or total, within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, as determined by the Committee.
"Disability"
     means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Act"
     means the price at which a holder of an Option may purchase the Shares issuable upon exercise of the Option, and in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right the value specified on the date of grant that is subtracted from the Fair Market Value when such Stock Appreciation Right is settled.
"Exercise Price"
     means, as of any date, the value of a share of the Company's Common Stock determined as follows:
"Fair Market Value"
          (a) if such Common Stock is then quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market (collectively, the ""), its closing price on the Nasdaq Market on the date of determination as reported in
Nasdaq Market
The Wall Street Journal;
          (b) if such Common Stock is publicly traded and is then listed on a national securities exchange, its closing price on the date of determination on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading as reported in
The Wall Street Journal;
          (c) if such Common Stock is publicly traded but is not quoted on the Nasdaq Market nor listed or admitted to trading on a national securities exchange, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on the date of determination as reported in or
The Wall Street Journal;
          (d) if none of the foregoing is applicable, by the Committee in good faith.
     "" means an officer or director of the Company or any other person whose transactions in the Company's Common Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Insider
     shall mean a person who satisfies the requirements of an "outside director" as set forth in regulations promulgated under Section 162(m) of the Code.
"Outside Director"
     means an award of an option to purchase Shares pursuant to Section 5.
"Option"
     means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Company, if at the time of the granting of an Award under this Plan, each of such corporations other than the Company owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
"Parent"
     means a person who receives an Award under this Plan.
"Participant"
     means the factors selected by the Committee from among the following measures to determine whether the performance goals established by the Committee and applicable to Awards have been satisfied:
"Performance Factors"
          (1) Net revenue and/or net revenue growth;
 
          (2) Earnings before income taxes and amortization and/or earnings before income taxes and amortization growth;
          (3) Operating income and/or operating income growth;
          (4) Net income and/or net income growth;
          (5) Earnings per share and/or earnings per share growth;
          (6) Total stockholder return and/or total stockholder return growth;
          (7) Return on equity;
          (8) Operating cash flow return on income;
          (9) Adjusted operating cash flow return on income;
          (10) Economic value added; and
          (11) Individual business goals or criteria that can be objectively specified in a manner that complies with Section 162(m).
     means the period of service determined by the Committee, not to exceed five years, during which years of service or performance is to be measured for Restricted Stock Awards.
"Performance Period"
     means this Symantec Corporation 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
"Plan"
     means the price to be paid for Shares acquired under this Plan pursuant to an Award other than an Option.
"Purchase Price"
     means an award of Shares pursuant to Section 7.
"Restricted Stock Award"
     or means an award of Shares pursuant to Section 8.
"Restricted Stock Unit"
"RSU"
     means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"Securities Act"
     means shares of the Company's Common Stock reserved for issuance under this Plan, as adjusted pursuant to Sections 2 and 18, and any successor security.
"Shares"
     or means an Award, granted pursuant to Section 9.
"Stock Appreciation Right"
"SAR"
     means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if, at the time of granting of the Award, each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
"Subsidiary"
     or means, for purposes of this Plan with respect to a Participant, that the Participant has for any reason ceased to provide services as an employee, director, consultant, independent contractor or advisor to the Company or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company, except in the case of sick leave, military leave, or any other leave of absence approved by the Committee, provided that such leave is for a period of not more than ninety (90) days, or reinstatement upon the expiration of such leave is guaranteed by contract or statute. The Committee will have sole discretion to determine whether a Participant has ceased to provide services and the effective date on which the Participant ceased to provide services (the ).
"Termination"
"Terminated"
"Termination Date"

Exhibit 10.2
1. ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE OF PLAN
     (a) Symantec Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "") adopted this 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "") to grant options for the purchase of shares ("") of the Company's Common Stock ("") to eligible employees of the Company, its parent corporation, and its Affiliates and Subsidiaries. For purposes of the Plan, "parent corporation" and "Subsidiary" (collectively, "") shall have the same meanings as "parent corporation" and "subsidiary corporation" in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and "" shall mean any entity, other than a Subsidiary, in which the Company has an equity or other ownership interest. Any term not expressly defined in the Plan but defined for purposes of Section 423 of the Code shall have the same definition in this Plan for purposes of the Statutory Plan (defined below).
Company
Plan
Shares
Common Stock
Subsidiaries
Code
Affiliate
     (b) The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the Company and certain Affiliates and Subsidiaries designated (any such designated Affiliate or Subsidiary, a "") by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") whose employees are eligible to participate in the Plan with a convenient means to acquire at a discount to market value an equity interest in the Company through payroll deductions, to enhance such employees' sense of participation in the affairs of the Company and its Affiliates and Subsidiaries, and to provide an incentive for continued employment.
Designated Corporation
Board
2. STRUCTURE OF THE PLAN AND SUB-PLANS
     (a) This Plan document is an omnibus document which includes a sub-plan (the "") designed to permit offerings of grants to employees of the Company and certain Subsidiaries that are Designated Corporations (defined below) where such offerings are intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 423 of the Code (although the Company makes no undertaking nor representation to obtain or maintain qualification under Section 423 for any Subsidiary, individual, offering or grant) and also separate sub-plans (each a "") which permit offerings of grants to employees of certain Designated Corporations that are not intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 423 of the Code.
Statutory Plan
Non-Statutory Plan
     (b) A total of 20,000,000 Shares may be issued under the Plan. Such number shall be subject to adjustments effected in accordance with Section 14 of the Plan.
     (c) The Statutory Plan shall be a separate and independent plan from the Non-Statutory Plans, provided, however, that the total number of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan applies in the aggregate to both the Statutory Plan and the Non-Statutory Plans. Offerings under the Non-Statutory Plans may be made to achieve desired tax or other objectives in particular locations outside the United States of America or to comply with local laws applicable to offerings in such foreign jurisdictions.
 
     (d) The terms of the Statutory Plan shall be those set forth in this Plan document to the extent such terms are consistent with the requirements for qualification under Code Section 423. The Board may adopt Non-Statutory Plans applicable to particular Designated Corporations or locations that are not participating in the Statutory Plan, which shall be designed to achieve tax, securities law or other Company compliance objectives in particular locations outside the United States. The terms of each Non-Statutory Plan may take precedence over other provisions in this document, with the exception of Section 2(b) of the Plan with respect to the total number of shares available to be offered under the Plan for all sub-plans. Unless otherwise superseded by the terms of such Non-Statutory Plan, the provisions of this Plan document shall govern the operation of such Non-Statutory Plan. Except to the extent expressly set forth herein or where the context suggests otherwise, any reference herein to "Plan" shall be construed to include a reference to the Statutory Plan and any Non-Statutory Plans.
3. ADMINISTRATION
     (a) The Plan is administered by the Board or by a committee designated by the Board (in which event all references herein to the Board shall be to the committee). Members of the Board shall receive no compensation for their services in connection with the administration of the Plan, other than standard fees as established from time to time by the Board for services rendered by Board members serving on Board committees. All expenses incurred in connection with the administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Company.
     (b) The Board (or the committee) shall have the power, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan:
          (i) To determine when and how options to purchase Shares shall be granted and the provisions of each Offering Period (which need not be identical).
          (ii) To designate from time to time an Affiliate or Subsidiary as a Designated Corporation whose employees shall be eligible to participate in the Statutory Plan or a Non-Statutory Plan. For purposes of participation in the Statutory Plan, only Subsidiaries shall be considered Designated Corporations, and the Board shall designate from time to time which Subsidiaries will be Designated Corporations in the Statutory Plan. The Board shall designate from time to time which Subsidiaries and Affiliates shall be Designated Corporations in particular Non-Statutory Plans, provided, however, that at any given time, a Subsidiary that is a Designated Corporation in the Statutory Plan shall not be a Designated Corporation in a Non-Statutory Plan. The foregoing designations and changes in designations by the Board from time to time shall not require stockholder approval.
          (iii) To determine from time to time the method for allocating the number of total shares to be offered under each sub-plan, which determination shall not require stockholder approval.
          (iv) To construe and interpret the Plan and rights to purchase (options on) Shares, and to establish, amend and revoke rules and procedures for its administration. The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or inconsistency in the Plan, in a manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or expedient to make the Plan fully effective.
 
          (v) To amend or terminate the Plan as provided in Section 24 below.
          (vi) To adopt rules and procedures and/or special provisions  relating to the operation and administration of the Statutory Plan (subject to the limitations of Section 423 of the Code or any successor provision in the Code) and any Non-Statutory Plan, as appropriate, to permit or facilitate participation in the Statutory Plan or a particular Non-Statutory Plan by employees who are foreign nationals or employed or resident outside the United States or as designed to achieve tax, securities law or other Company compliance objectives in particular locations outside the United States.
          (vii) Generally, to exercise such powers and to perform such acts it deems necessary, desirable, convenient or expedient to promote the best interests of the Company and its Subsidiaries and to carry out that intent that the Statutory Plan be treated as an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Code.
     (c) Subject to the limitations of Section 423 of the Code or any successor provision in the Code with respect to the Statutory Plan, all questions of interpretation or application of the Plan shall be determined by the Board and its decisions shall be final and binding upon all persons.
4. ELIGIBILITY
     Any employee of the Company or any Designated Corporation is eligible to participate in an Offering Period (as hereinafter defined) under the Plan except the following unless otherwise required under applicable local law:
     (a) employees who are not employed by the Company or a Designated Corporation on the third (3) business day before the beginning of such Offering Period;
rd
     (b) employees who are customarily employed for less than 20 hours per week;
     (c) employees who are customarily employed for less than 5 months in a calendar year;
     (d) employees who, together with any other person whose stock would be attributed to such employee pursuant to Section 425(d) of the Code, own stock or hold options to purchase stock or who, as a result of being granted an option under the Plan with respect to such Offering Period, would own stock or hold options to purchase stock possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; and
     (e) individuals who provide services to the Company or any Designated Corporation as independent contractors who are reclassified as common law employees for any reason except for federal income and employment tax purposes.
 
5. OFFERING PERIODS; OFFERING DATES; AND PURCHASE DATES
     (a) Each Offering Period under the Plan (each an "Offering Period") shall be of the duration provided for or permitted herein. The first trading day (day on which the exchange or system on which the Common Stock is trading is open) of each Offering Period is referred to as the "Offering Date." The Board may but need not provide for multiple purchases within a single Offering Period. The Board shall have the power to change the duration of Offering Periods without stockholder approval. The last trading day of each Offering Period (or in the case of an Offering Period encompassing multiple purchases, each such purchase period) is hereinafter referred to as the "Purchase Date."
     (b) Subject to Section 5(c) below, each Offering Period shall be of six (6) months' duration commencing February 16 and August 16 of each year beginning February 16, 2009, and ending no later than the next August 15 and February 15, respectively, thereafter, and shall have a single Purchase Date (which shall occur on the last trading day of the Offering Period).
     (c) Notwithstanding 5(b) above and the other provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors may, but need not, vary the terms and structure of the Offering Periods under this Plan, on such basis as it shall determine in its sole discretion (including without limitation, the length of each Offering Period, Offering Periods during which more than one Purchase Date shall occur, and the formula(s) for calculating the price(s) at which Shares may be purchased during such Offering Period including a formula under which such price is calculated with reference to the fair market value (as provided for in Section 8 below) of the Common Stock as of the Offering Date for the Offering Period); provided, however, that no Offering Period under the Plan shall have a duration in excess of twenty-seven (27) months (or such period as may be permitted under Code Section 423).
6. PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN
     An eligible employee may become a participant in an Offering Period under the Plan if (a) as of the Offering Date with respect to the Offering Period he or she satisfies the eligibility requirements set forth above, and (b) not later than the third (3) business day prior to such Offering Date (at such time and in such manner as may be specified with respect to such Offering Period) he or she delivers to the Company or its authorized representative a subscription agreement indicating his or her desire to enroll in the Offering Period and authorizing payroll deductions in a manner consistent with Section 9 below. An eligible employee who does not timely deliver a subscription agreement by the date specified in advance of the applicable Offering Date shall not participate in that Offering Period and shall not participate in any subsequent Offering Period unless such employee enrolls in the Plan by timely delivering a subscription agreement to the Company or its representative prior the Offering Date of the applicable, subsequent Offering Period. Once an employee becomes a participant in an Offering Period, such employee will automatically participate in the Offering Period commencing immediately following the last day of that Offering Period unless the employee withdraws from the Plan or terminates further participation in the Offering Period as set forth in Section 11 below. Such participant is not required to file any additional subscription agreements in order to continue participation in the Plan with respect to subsequent Offering Periods. Any participant
rd
 
who has not withdrawn from the Plan pursuant to Section 11 below will automatically be re-enrolled in the Plan and granted a new option on the Offering Date of the next Offering Period.
7. GRANT OF OPTION
     (a) Each employee enrolled in an Offering Period will be granted on the Offering Date an option to purchase on each Purchase Date for a particular Offering Period up to that number of Shares determined by dividing the amount accumulated in such employee's payroll deduction account during such Offering Period by the Purchase Price applicable to that Offering Period (as defined in Section 8 below).
     (b) In no event, however, shall the number of Shares subject to any option granted pursuant to this Plan exceed the limitations set forth in Section 10 below. The purchase price and fair market value of a Share shall be determined as provided in Section 8 below.
8. PURCHASE PRICE
     (a) Unless otherwise determined by the Board in its discretion, the purchase price per Share at which a Share of Common Stock will be sold in any Offering Period (the "Purchase Price") shall be eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value on the applicable Purchase Date. The fair market value of a Share shall be as determined in good faith by the Board. If the Common Stock is listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq Stock Market, the fair market value of a Share shall be the closing sales price for such stock, as quoted on such exchange or market constituting the primary market for the Common Stock on the date of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Board deems reliable. If the relevant date does not fall on a day on which the Common Stock has traded on such securities exchange or market system, the date on which the fair market value shall be established shall be the last day on which the Common Stock was so traded prior to the relevant date, or such other appropriate day as shall be determined by the Board, in its discretion.
The Wall Street Journal
     (b) The Board may in its discretion, and without stockholder approval, change the Purchase Price from the formula set forth above, provided that the Purchase Price may not be less than the lesser of (a) eighty-five percent (85%) of the Offering Date fair market value of a Share and (b) eighty-five percent (85%) of the Purchase Date fair market value of a Share.
9. PAYMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE; PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS; ISSUANCE OF SHARES
     (a) The aggregate purchase price of the Shares is accumulated by regular payroll deductions made during each Offering Period, unless payroll deductions are not permitted under a statute, regulation, rule of a jurisdiction, in which case such other payments as may be approved by the Board (or committee) subject to this Section 9. The deductions are made as a percentage of the employee's compensation in one percent (1%) increments not less than two percent (2%) nor greater than ten percent (10%). For purposes of the Statutory Plan, "compensation" shall mean all compensation, including, but not limited to base salary, wages, commissions, overtime, shift premiums and bonuses, plus draws against commissions, but excluding amounts related to Company equity compensation; provided, however, that for
 
purposes of determining a participant's compensation, any election by such participant to reduce his or her regular cash remuneration under Sections 125 or 401(k) of the Code shall be treated as if the participant did not make such election. For purposes of any Non-Statutory Plan, "compensation" shall mean base salary. Payroll deductions shall commence on the first payroll date following the Offering Date and shall continue until the payroll date immediately preceding the Purchase Date unless sooner altered or terminated as provided in the Plan.
     (b) A participant may lower (but not increase) the rate of payroll deductions during an Offering Period by filing with the Company's designated stock plan administrator (the "Administrator") (which may also be the ESPP Broker, as defined below) a new authorization for payroll deductions, in which case the new rate shall become effective for the next payroll period commencing more than thirty (30) days after the Administrator's receipt of the authorization and shall continue for the remainder of the Offering Period unless changed as described below. Such change in the rate of payroll deductions may be made at any time during an Offering Period, but not more than one (1) change may be made effective during any Offering Period. A participant may increase or lower the rate of payroll deductions for any subsequent Offering Period by filing with the Administrator a new authorization for payroll deductions during the open enrollment period beginning on the first (1) day of the month and ending three business days before the Offering Date.
st
     (c) All payroll deductions made for a participant are credited to his or her account under the Plan and are deposited with the general funds of the Company. No interest accrues on the payroll deductions (unless required by applicable local law). All payroll deductions received or held by the Company may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions (unless required by applicable local law).
     (d) On each Purchase Date, so long as the Plan remains in effect and provided that the participant has not withdrawn from the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of the Plan before that date, the Company shall apply the funds then in the participant's account to the purchase of whole Shares reserved under the option granted to such participant with respect to the Offering Period to the extent that such option is exercisable on the Purchase Date. The Purchase Price per Share shall be as specified in Section 8 of the Plan. Any cash remaining in a participant's account after such purchase of Shares shall be refunded to such participant in cash (without interest); provided, however, that any amount remaining in such participant's account on a Purchase Date which is less than the amount necessary to purchase a full Share of the Company shall be carried forward, without interest, into the next Offering Period (or in the event of an Offering Period during which multiple purchase will occur, into the next applicable purchase period within the Offering Period). In the event that the Plan has been oversubscribed as provided in Section 10(c), all funds not used to purchase Shares on the Purchase Date shall be returned to the participant (without interest, unless otherwise required by applicable local law). No Shares shall be purchased on a Purchase Date on behalf of any employee whose participation in the Plan has terminated prior to such Purchase Date.
     (e) As promptly as practicable after the Purchase Date, the number of Shares purchased by each participant upon exercise of each participant's option shall be deposited into an account established in the participant's name at the stock brokerage or other third party
 
service provider designated by the Company (the ""), as nominee holding the Shares for the benefit of the participant. In the event participant requests the receipt of certificated shares, the Company shall arrange the delivery to such participant of a certificate representing the Shares purchased on the Purchase Date; provided that the Board may deliver certificates to a broker or brokers that hold such certificate in street name for the benefit of each such participant.
ESPP Broker
     (f) During a participant's lifetime, such participant's option to purchase Shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her. The participant will have no interest or voting right in Shares covered by his or her option until such option has been exercised. Shares to be delivered to a participant under the Plan will be registered in the name of the participant or in the name of the participant and his or her spouse or in the name of the ESPP Broker, as nominee holding the Shares for the benefit of the participant.
10. LIMITATIONS ON SHARES TO BE PURCHASED
     (a) No employee shall be entitled to purchase Shares under the Plan at a rate which, when aggregated with his or her rights to purchase Shares of Common Stock under all other employee stock purchase plans of the Company or any Subsidiary, exceeds $25,000 in fair market value, determined as of the date such right is granted (or such other limit as may be imposed by the Code) for each calendar year in which the employee participates in the Plan.
     (b) Subject to Sections 9(a), 10(a) and 14(a) of the Plan, the maximum number of Shares that a participant may purchase on any single Purchase Date shall not exceed 10,000 Shares (the ""); provided that prior to the commencement of any Offering Period, the Board may, in its sole discretion and without stockholder approval, change the Maximum Share Amount with respect to that Offering Period. If a new Maximum Share Amount is set, then all participants must be notified of such Maximum Share Amount prior to the commencement of the next Offering Period. Once a Maximum Share Amount is set, it shall continue to apply in respect of all succeeding Purchase Dates and Offering Periods unless revised by the Board as set forth above.
Maximum Share Amount
     (c) If a participant is precluded by the limitations of Sections 10(a) or 10(b) from purchasing additional Shares under the Plan, then his or her payroll deductions shall automatically be discontinued and shall resume at the beginning of the next Offering Period (or in the event of an Offering Period during which multiple purchase will occur, into the next applicable purchase period within the Offering Period) in which such participant is eligible to participate.
     (d) If the number of Shares to be purchased on a Purchase Date by all employees participating in the Plan exceeds the number of Shares then available for issuance under the Plan, the Company will make a pro rata allocation of the remaining Shares in as uniform a manner as shall be practicable and as the Board shall determine to be equitable. In such event, the Company shall give written notice of such reduction of the number of Shares to be purchased under a participant's option to each employee affected thereby. Any payroll deductions accumulated in such participant's account which are not used to purchase Shares due to the limitations in this
 
Section 10(d) shall be returned to the participant (without interest, unless required by applicable local law) as soon as practicable after the end of the Offering Period.
11. WITHDRAWAL
     (a) Each participant may withdraw from an Offering Period under the Plan by signing and delivering to the Administrator notice on a form provided for such purpose. Such withdrawal may be elected at any time at least fifteen (15) days prior to the end of an Offering Period, or such shorter period of time as may be required in certain jurisdictions outside the United States as determined by the Board.
     (b) Upon withdrawal from the Plan, the accumulated payroll deductions shall be returned to the withdrawn employee (without interest, unless required by applicable local law) and his or her interest in the Plan shall terminate. In the event an employee voluntarily elects to withdraw from the Plan, he or she may not resume his or her participation in the Plan during the same Offering Period, but he or she may participate in any Offering Period under the Plan which commences on a date subsequent to such withdrawal by filing a new authorization for payroll deductions in the same manner as set forth in Section 6 above for initial participation in the Plan.
12. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
     Termination of a participant's employment for any reason, including retirement or death or the failure of a participant to remain an eligible employee as set forth in Section 4, terminates his or her participation in the Plan immediately. In such event, the payroll deductions credited to the participant's account will be returned to him or her or, in the case of his or her death, to his or her legal representative. For this purpose, an employee will not be deemed to have terminated employment or failed to remain in the continuous employ of the Company in the case of sick leave, military leave, or any other leave of absence approved by the Board of Directors of the Company; provided that such leave is for a period of not more than ninety (90) days or, if such leave is longer than ninety (90) days, reemployment upon the expiration of such leave is guaranteed by contract or statute.
13. RETURN OF PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
     In the event an employee's interest in the Plan is terminated by withdrawal, termination of employment or otherwise, or in the event the Plan is terminated by the Board, the Company shall promptly deliver to the employee all payroll deductions credited to his or her account. Unless otherwise required by applicable local law, no interest shall accrue on the payroll deductions of a participant in the Plan.
14. ADJUSTMENTS UPON CAPITAL CHANGES; CORPORATE TRANSACTIONS
     (a) Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised, the Maximum Share Amount set forth in Section 10(b) above, and the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but have not yet been placed under option (collectively, the ""), as well as the price per Share covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the
Reserves
 
number of issued Shares resulting from a stock dividend, recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, subdivision, combination, reclassification or similar change in the capital structure of the Company without consideration or there is a change in the corporate structure (including, without limitation, a spin-off) or any other increase or decrease in the number of Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to an option.
     (b) In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, each Offering Period will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board. In such event, the Board may, in the exercise of its sole discretion in such instances, declare that the options under the Plan shall terminate as of a date fixed by the Board and give each participant the right to exercise his or her option as to all of the optioned Shares.
     (c) In the event of a Corporate Transaction (defined below), each option under the Plan shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless the Board determines, in the exercise of its sole discretion and in lieu of such assumption or substitution, that the participant shall have the right to exercise the option as to all of the optioned Shares. If the Board makes an option exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a Corporate Transaction, the Board shall notify the participant that the option shall be fully exercisable on a date specified in such notice, and the option will terminate upon the expiration of such period. For purposes of the Plan, a "" means (i) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving corporation (a merger or consolidation with a wholly-owned subsidiary, a reincorporation of the Company in a different jurisdiction, or other transaction in which there is no substantial change in the stockholders of the Company or their relative stock holdings and the options granted under this Plan are assumed, converted or replaced by the successor corporation, which assumption will be binding on all participants), (ii) a merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation but after which the stockholders of the Company (other than any stockholder which merges (or which owns or controls another corporation which merges) with the Company in such merger) cease to own their shares or other equity interests in the Company, (iii) the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, or (iv) any other transaction which qualifies as a "corporate transaction" under Section 424(a) of the Code wherein the stockholders of the Company give up all of their equity interest in the Company (for the acquisition, sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the outstanding shares of the Company from or by the stockholders of the Company).
Corporate Transaction
other than
except
     (d) The Board may, if it so determines in the exercise of its sole discretion, also make provision for adjusting the Reserves, as well as the price per Share covered by each outstanding option, in the event that the Company effects one or more reorganizations, recapitalizations, rights offerings or other increases or reductions of shares of its outstanding Common Stock, and in the event of a Corporate Transaction.
 
15. NONASSIGNABILITY
     Neither payroll deductions credited to a participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or to receive Shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution or as provided in Section 22 hereof) by the participant. Any such attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall be without effect.
16. REPORTS
     Individual accounts will be maintained for each participant in the Plan. Each participant shall receive promptly after the end of each Offering Period a report of his account setting forth the total payroll deductions accumulated, the number of Shares purchased, the per Share price thereof and the remaining cash balance, if any, carried forward to the next Offering Period, and any other reports required by applicable law.
17. NOTICE OF DISPOSITION
     Each participant under a Statutory Plan shall notify the Company if the participant disposes of any of the Shares purchased in any Offering Period pursuant to this Plan if such disposition occurs within two (2) years from the Offering Date or within one (1) year from the Purchase Date on which such Shares were purchased (the ""). Unless such participant is disposing of any of such Shares during the Notice Period, such participant shall keep the certificates representing such Shares in his or her name (and not in the name of a nominee) during the Notice Period. The Company may, at any time during the Notice Period, place a legend or legends on any certificate representing Shares acquired pursuant to the Plan requesting the Company's transfer agent to notify the Company of any transfer of the Shares. The obligation of the participant to provide such notice shall continue notwithstanding the placement of any such legend on certificates.
Notice Period
18. NO RIGHTS TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT
     Neither this Plan nor the grant of any option hereunder shall confer any right on any employee to remain in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or restrict the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate such employee's employment.
19. EQUAL RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES
     All participants in an Offering Period under the Statutory Plan shall have the same rights and privileges with respect to their participation in the Statutory Plan for that Offering Period, in accordance with Section 423 of the Code and the related regulations (and any successor provisions) except for differences that may be mandated by local law and are consistent with the requirements of Code Section 423(b)(5). Any provision of the Statutory Plan, a specific Offering Period or an option granted under the Statutory Plan which is inconsistent with this Section 19 shall without further act or amendment by the Company or the Board be reformed, if possible, to the extent necessary to render such provision in compliance with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code, or shall otherwise be deleted, and the remainder of the terms of the Statutory Plan, an Offering Period and/or an option shall not be affected.
 
20. NOTICES; ELECTRONIC DELIVERY
     (a) All notices or other communications by a participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.
     (b) Any reference in the Plan to subscription agreements, enrollment forms, authorizations or any other document in writing shall include any agreement or document delivered electronically, including through the Company's intranet.
21. CONDITIONS UPON ISSUANCE OF SHARES
     Shares shall not be issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance. The Company shall have no liability for failure to issue any Shares under this Plan in the event that such issuance cannot be accomplished in compliance with all applicable laws.
Exchange Act
22. APPLICABLE LAW
     The Plan shall be governed by the substantive laws (excluding the conflict of laws rules) of the State of Delaware.
23. EFFECTIVE DATE; TERM OF THE PLAN
     The Plan shall become effective upon approval of the Plan by the stockholders of the Company, and shall continue until the earliest to occur of (i) termination of the Plan by the Board, (ii) issuance of all of the Shares reserved for issuance under the Plan, or (iii) ten (10) years from the date the Plan was originally approved by the stockholders (subject to the ability of the stockholders to approve later extensions of this term).
24. AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN
     The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time amend or terminate the Plan. Termination of the Plan shall not affect options previously granted under the Plan, nor shall any amendment make any change in an option previously granted which would adversely affect the right of any participant (unless mutually agreed otherwise between the participant and the Company, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the participant and the Company); provided that if the Board determines that a change in applicable accounting rules or a change in applicable laws renders an amendment or termination desirable, then the Board may approve such an amendment or termination. Any amendment of the Plan shall be subject to approval of the stockholders of the Company in the manner and to the extent required by applicable law. In addition, without limiting the foregoing, the Board may not amend the Plan without approval of the stockholders of the Company if such amendment would: (i) increase the number of Shares
 
that may be issued under the Plan; or (ii) expand the designation of the employees (or class of employees) eligible for participation in the Plan.


