FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20090409160122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 6, 2009, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") and John W. Thompson entered into a letter agreement reflecting Mr. Thompson's new responsibilities following his previously-announced retirement as Symantec's Chief Executive Officer effective April 3, 2009. Pursuant to the letter agreement, Mr. Thompson will remain Chairman of Symantec's Board of Directors and will receive a salary of $500,000 per annum beginning on April 4, 2009. In addition, the letter agreement provides that Mr. Thompson is eligible for severance benefits under the Symantec Corporation Severance Plan. Mr. Thompson shall not be eligible to participate in any of Symantec's bonus plans for fiscal years beginning on or after April 4, 2009.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by the full text of Mr. Thompson's letter agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.01 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.01
Dear John,
This offer and agreement supersedes and replaces your Employment Agreement dated April 11, 1999, any amendments thereto and any other prior verbal or written agreements between you and Symantec Corporation ("Symantec") relating to the subject matter hereof, except as explicitly provided below.
Effective April 4, 2009, your job title will be Chairman of the Board. You will continue reporting to the Board of Directors of Symantec and will perform such duties as are applicable to the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors and devote such time to Symantec as is necessary to perform those dutiesYour annual base salary will be $500,000, payable on regular pay dates of Symantec and subject to applicable employment and income tax withholding.
.
In addition, you will be eligible to participate in the following employee benefit plans: Symantec's medical, dental and vision insurance programs; Life Insurance, Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance; Long Term Disability Insurance; 401(k) Plan; Symantec Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan; and Paid Time Off and work/life benefits programs subject to the terms and conditions of those plans or programs, as amended from time to time. You will continue to be eligible to participate in the FY09 Long Term Incentive Plan subject to its terms and conditions. You will continue to be eligible to participate in the executive long-term disability policy in addition to the Symantec group LTD plan. You will also continue to be eligible to participate in the Term Individual Life Insurance Policy until it expires in August 2009. You will also be eligible for severance benefits as set forth in the Symantec Corporation Severance Plan (the "Severance Plan") applicable to employees at the Vice President level or above. Under the terms of the Severance Plan, eligible employees at such level who have been employed for over a year shall receive severance payments equal to ten weeks of base pay plus the amount calculated by multiplying two weeks of base pay times the number of years of such employee's employment by Symantec after the first year of employment, prorated through the termination date.
Symantec will also reimburse up to $10,000 of the fees associated with your individual financial planning strategy and income tax preparation in relation to the 2009 tax year. You may select any certified financial planner and/or tax preparation of your choice. Fees should be submitted as part of the standard Oracle expense reporting process by January 30, 2010, which amounts will be reimbursed no later than 2 / months after the end of the year.
1
2
This letter does not constitute a contract of employment for any specific period of time but will create an "employment at will" relationship. This means that the employment relationship may be terminated by either party for any reason at any time. Any statements or representation to the contrary (and, indeed any statements contradicting any provisions of this letter) should be regarded by you as ineffective. Participation in any of Symantec's benefit programs is not to be regarded as assurance of continued employment for any particular period of time.
Please confirm your acceptance of this offer by signing this letter in the space indicated and returning the signed letter to Rebecca Ranninger.
Sincerely,
I accept the offer of employment stated in this letter.


