FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20100505163131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 5, 2010, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended April 2, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.01
News Release
- -       - -       - -       - -       - -      
Fourth Quarter
Non-GAAP Revenue of $1.535 billion
Non-GAAP Operating Margin of 28.3 percent
Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share of $0.40
Non-GAAP Deferred Revenue of $3.22 billion
Cash Flow from Operations of $703 million
- -       - -       - -       - -       - -      
Fiscal Year 2010
Non-GAAP Revenue of $6.01 billion
Non-GAAP Operating Margin of 28.6 percent
Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share of $1.51
Non-GAAP Deferred Revenue of $3.22 billion
Cash Flow from Operations of $1.69 billion
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq:SYMC) today reported the results of its fiscal fourth quarter and the fiscal year 2010, ended April 2, 2010. GAAP revenue for the fiscal fourth quarter was $1.531 billion. Non-GAAP revenue was $1.535 billion, up 3 percent over the comparable period a year ago (flat after adjusting for currency). For the fiscal year, GAAP revenue was $5.99 billion and non-GAAP revenue was $6.01 billion.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  May 5, 2010 
"We closed our fiscal year achieving better than expected results on our key financial metrics in the fourth quarter. Sales activity continued to improve as the team utilized the broader Symantec portfolio to take advantage of cross-sell and up-sell opportunities," said Enrique Salem, president and chief executive officer, Symantec. "We drove continued improvement in our execution and results this year, positioning the company well for fiscal year 2011 as we focus on making it simpler for customers to secure and manage their information."
     "Our business continues to deliver strong cash flow from operations, generating $1.69 billion this fiscal year and $703 million in the fourth quarter," said James Beer, executive vice president and chief financial officer, Symantec. "The consumer business reported its sixth consecutive quarter of growth and our enterprise business was driven by strong sales of hosted services, data loss prevention, backup and archiving solutions."
 
Symantec Reports Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010 Results Page 2 of 5
GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 was 16.1 percent. GAAP net income for the fiscal fourth quarter was $184 million compared with a net loss of $264 million for the same quarter last year. GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.23 compared with a loss per share of $0.32 for the same quarter last year. The GAAP net loss for the year-ago quarter includes a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $413 million.
GAAP Results:
For the fiscal year 2010, Symantec reported GAAP operating income of $933 million compared with an operating loss of $6.5 billion for fiscal 2009. GAAP net income for fiscal year 2010 was $714 million compared with a net loss of $6.8 billion for fiscal year 2009. GAAP diluted earnings per share for the year was $0.87 compared with a diluted loss per share of $8.17 for the fiscal year 2009. The GAAP net loss for fiscal year 2009 includes a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $7.4 billion.
GAAP deferred revenue as of April 2, 2010, was $3.21 billion compared with $3.06 billion as of April 3, 2009, up 5 percent year-over-year. After adjusting for currency, GAAP deferred revenue increased 4 percent year-over-year. Cash flow from operating activities for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 was $703 million. Symantec ended the quarter and fiscal year with cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3.04 billion. Cash flow from operating activities for fiscal year 2010 was $1.69 billion compared with $1.67 billion for fiscal year 2009.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 was 28.3 percent. Non-GAAP net income for the fiscal fourth quarter was $327 million compared with $318 million for the year-ago period. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.40 compared with earnings per share of $0.38 for the year-ago quarter, an increase of 5 percent year-over-year.
Non-GAAP Results:
Non-GAAP deferred revenue as of April 2, 2010, was $3.22 billion compared with $3.08 billion as of April 3, 2009, an increase of 4 percent year-over-year. After adjusting for currency, non-GAAP deferred revenue increased 3 percent year-over-year.
Fiscal year 2010 non-GAAP operating margin was 28.6 percent. Non-GAAP net income for the fiscal year 2010 was $1.24 billion compared with $1.32 billion in fiscal year 2009. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $1.51 compared with earnings per share of $1.57 for fiscal year 2009.
For a detailed reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results, please refer to the attached consolidated financial statements.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, Symantec repurchased 11.2 million shares for $189 million at an average price of $16.93. During the fiscal year 2010, the company repurchased 33.8 million shares at an average price of $16.39, equivalent to $553 million. Symantec has $747 million remaining in the current board authorized stock repurchase plan.
 
Symantec Reports Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010 Results Page 3 of 5
Business Segment and Geographic Highlights
For the quarter, Symantec's Consumer segment represented 31 percent of total non-GAAP revenue and increased 9 percent year-over-year (increased 6 percent after adjusting for currency). The Security and Compliance segment represented 24 percent of total non-GAAP revenue and increased 2 percent year-over-year (declined 1 percent after adjusting for currency). The Storage and Server Management segment represented 38 percent of total non-GAAP revenue and declined 1 percent year-over-year (declined 4 percent after adjusting for currency). Services represented 7 percent of total non-GAAP revenue and increased 8 percent year-over-year (increased 6 percent after adjusting for currency).
International revenue represented 50 percent of total non-GAAP revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 and increased 3 percent year-over-year (declined 3 percent after adjusting for currency). The Europe, Middle East and Africa region represented 30 percent of total non-GAAP revenue for the quarter and increased 2 percent year-over-year (declined 4 percent after adjusting for currency). The Asia Pacific/Japan revenue for the quarter represented 15 percent of total non-GAAP revenue and increased 5 percent year-over-year (declined 1 percent after adjusting for currency). The Americas, including the United States, Latin America and Canada, represented 55 percent of total non-GAAP revenue and increased 3 percent year-over-year on an actual and currency adjusted basis.
First Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Guidance
Beginning in fiscal year 2011 Symantec will no longer report revenue and deferred revenue on a non-GAAP basis. The June quarter guidance is solely based on GAAP revenue and deferred revenue expectations.
Guidance assumes an exchange rate of $1.35 per Euro for the June 2010 quarter versus the actual weighted average rate of $1.37 per Euro for the June 2009 quarter, approximately a 1 percent currency headwind. The end of period rate for the June 2009 quarter was $1.40, approximately a 3.5 percent currency headwind versus the $1.35 per Euro assumption for the June 2010 quarter.
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, ending July 2, 2010, GAAP revenue is estimated between $1.48 billion and $1.50 billion, up 3 to 5 percent year-over-year on an actual and currency adjusted basis.
GAAP diluted earnings per share are estimated between $0.16 and $0.17. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are estimated between $0.35 and $0.36, up 6 to 9 percent year-over-year.
GAAP deferred revenue is expected to be in the range of $3.06 billion and $3.09 billion, up 3 to 4 percent year-over-year (4 to 5 percent growth after adjusting for currency).
 
Symantec Reports Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010 Results Page 4 of 5
Conference Call
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the results from the fiscal fourth quarter and the fiscal year 2010, ended April 2, 2010, and to review guidance. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
http://www.symantec.com/invest
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in providing security, storage and systems management solutions to help consumers and organizations secure and manage their information-driven world. Our software and services protect against more risks at more points, more completely and efficiently, enabling confidence wherever information is used or stored. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including projections of future revenue, earnings per share and deferred revenue, as well as projections of amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and stock-based compensation and restructuring charges. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: general economic conditions; maintaining customer and partner relationships; the anticipated growth of certain market segments, particularly with regard to security and storage; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; the successful development of new products and integration of acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. We assume no obligation, and do not intend, to update these forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments. Additional information concerning these and other risks factors is contained in the Risk Factors sections of our Form 10-K for the year ended April 3, 2009.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
 
Symantec Reports Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010 Results Page 5 of 5
Our results of operations have undergone significant change due to a series of acquisitions, the impact of SFAS 123(R), impairment charges and other corporate events. To help our readers understand our past financial performance and our future results, we supplement the financial results that we provide in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, with non-GAAP financial measures. The method we use to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Our non-GAAP results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to our quarterly earnings release and which can be found, along with other financial information, on the investor relations' page of our Web site at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest
 
 
1
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
We include certain non-GAAP measures in the tracking and forecasting of our earnings and management of our business. For a detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measures, please see Symantec's Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures in Appendix A.
 
8
 
The non-GAAP financial measures included in the tables adjust for the following items: business combination accounting entries, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, charges related to the amortization of intangible assets and acquired product rights, impairments of assets and certain other items. We believe the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operating performance for the reasons discussed below. Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results, as well as when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods and to our peers and that investors benefit from an understanding of these non-GAAP financial measures.
: We have completed several business combinations and acquisitions for a variety of strategic purposes over the past few years. As is the case with our existing business, at the time of acquisition, these acquired businesses recorded deferred revenue related to past transactions for which revenue would have been recognized by the acquired entity in future periods as revenue recognition criteria were satisfied. However, the purchase accounting entries for these acquisitions require us to write down a portion of this deferred revenue to its then current fair value. Consequently, in post acquisition periods, we do not recognize the full amount of this deferred revenue. When measuring the performance of our business, however, we add back non-GAAP revenue associated with obligations we assumed to provide maintenance or support to customers of the acquired business that was excluded as a result of these purchase accounting adjustments. We believe that this non-GAAP revenue presentation is appropriate both because it reveals, on a basis consistent with our own revenue recognition policies, the revenue associated with maintenance and support obligations assumed by us and because we have historically experienced high renewal rates on our acquired maintenance and support contracts. We also believe that the non-GAAP revenue disclosures enhance investors' ability to conduct period-over-period analyses of our results that reflect the full impact of the acquired business's results together with the results from our pre-existing products and services.
Deferred revenue related to acquisitions
Consists of expenses for employee stock options, restricted stock units, restricted stock awards and our employee stock purchase plan determined in accordance with the authoritative guidance on stock compensation. When evaluating the performance of our individual business units and developing short and long term plans, we do not consider stock-based compensation charges. Our management team is held accountable for cash-based compensation, but we believe that management is limited in its ability to project the impact of stock-based compensation and accordingly is not held accountable for its impact on our operating results. Although stock-based compensation is necessary to attract and retain quality employees, our consideration of stock- based compensation places its primary emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with such grants. In addition, for comparability purposes, we believe it is useful to provide a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies. Furthermore, unlike cash-based compensation, the value of stock-based compensation is determined using a complex formula that incorporates factors, such as market volatility, that are beyond our control.
Stock-based compensation:
When conducting internal development of intangible assets, accounting rules require that we expense the costs as incurred. In the case of acquired businesses, however, we are required to allocate a portion of the purchase price to the accounting value assigned to intangible assets acquired and amortize this amount over the estimated useful lives of the acquired intangibles. The acquired company, in most cases, has itself previously expensed the costs incurred to develop the acquired intangible assets, and the purchase price allocated to these assets is not necessarily reflective of the cost we would incur in developing the intangible asset. We eliminate these amortization charges from our non-GAAP operating results to provide better comparability of pre and post-acquisition operating results and comparability to results of businesses utilizing internally developed intangible assets.
Amortization of acquired product rights and other intangible assets:
We have engaged in various restructuring activities over the past several years that have resulted in costs associated with severance, benefits, outplacement services, and excess facilities. Each restructuring has been a discrete event based on a unique set of business objectives or circumstances, and each has differed from the others in terms of its operational implementation, business impact and scope. We do not engage in restructuring activities in the ordinary course of business. While our operations previously benefited from the employees and facilities covered by our various restructuring charges, these employees and facilities have benefited different parts of our business in different ways, and the amount of these charges has varied significantly from period to period. We believe that it is important to understand these charges; however, we do not believe that these charges are indicative of future operating results and that investors benefit from an understanding of our operating results without giving effect to them.
Restructuring:
During the December 2008 quarter, given the economic environment and a decline in our market capitalization, we concluded there were sufficient indicators to require us to perform an interim goodwill and other intangibles impairment analysis. In the December 2008 quarter, we recorded a $7.0 billion goodwill impairment charge, reflecting our best estimate of the goodwill impairment charge. We finalized our goodwill and other intangible impairment analysis during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and recorded an additional $413 million impairment charge.
Impairment of goodwill:
9
 
: We have committed to sell certain buildings and land. We have classified these assets as held for sale and adjusted the assets' carrying value when above the fair market value less cost to sell. During the three months ended January 1, 2010, we sold a property for $42 million, which resulted in a loss of $10 million. We do not believe that these charges are indicative of future operating results and believe that investors benefit from an understanding of our operating results without giving effect to them.
Loss and impairment of assets held for sale
: These items are the result of currency translation adjustments on the liquidation of dormant entities. We exclude the impact of these items because they are not closely related to, or a function of, our ongoing operations.
Net gain on legal liquidation of foreign entities
: Effective April 4, 2009, we adopted new authoritative guidance on convertible debt instruments, which changes the method of accounting for our convertible notes. Under this new authoritative guidance, our EPS and net income calculated in accordance with GAAP will be reduced as a result of recognizing incremental non-cash interest expense. We believe it is useful to provide a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes this incremental non-cash interest expense in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies.
Non-cash interest expense
: We exclude these items because they are unique one-time occurrences that are not closely related to, or a function of, our ongoing operations.
Gain on sale of assets
: From time to time we are party to legal settlements. We exclude the impact of these settlements because we do not consider these settlements to be part of the ongoing operation of our business and because of the singular nature of the claims underlying the matter.
Patent settlement/settlements of litigation
: This constitutes the "other than temporary" decline in the fair value of the Company's available-for-sale securities. The Company's management excludes this loss when evaluating its ongoing performance and/or predicting its earnings trends, and therefore excludes this loss when presenting non-GAAP financial measures.
Impairment of marketable securities
Consistent with the reasons discussed above, we exclude stock-based compensation charges and amortization of other intangible assets related to the joint venture from our non-GAAP net income.
Joint venture:
: New authoritative guidance on business combinations requires us to record, into the statement of operations, certain items that were originally recorded to goodwill at the time of an acquisition. Our evaluation of the U.S. Tax Court's ruling on December 10, 2009, regarding the Veritas Software tax assessment for 2000 and 2001, necessitated this type of adjustment. For the year ended April 2, 2010, we released certain tax accruals that were originally recorded to goodwill at the time of our July 2005 acquisition of Veritas. To enhance consistency and comparability of results across periods, we exclude the impact of the release of these accruals from our Non-GAAP results for the year ended April 2, 2010. However, approximately $16.5 million of accruals that were released for the year ended April 2, 2010 represent interest accruals attributed to the Veritas tax assessment that have been recorded to our income statement during post-acquisition periods. Accordingly, the amount of these accruals has not been excluded from Symantec's Non-GAAP results.
Release of pre-acquisition tax contingencies
: Due to the current year use and an acceleration of our Irish net operating losses ("NOLs"), we have released a portion of the tax valuation allowance that was originally recorded against these NOLs in relation to the impairment of goodwill that we recorded solely to our GAAP results during the three months ended January 2, 2009. To enhance consistency and comparability of results across periods, we exclude the impact of the release of the valuation allowance from our Non-GAAP results for the year ended April 2, 2010.
Release of valuation allowance
: During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, the company modified its segment reporting structure to more readily match its operating structure. The following modifications were made to the segment reporting structure: Enterprise Vault products were moved to the Storage and Server Management segment from the Security and Compliance segment; and the Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offerings were moved to either the Security and Compliance or the Storage and Server Management segment from the Services segment based on the nature of the service delivered. The predominant amount of SaaS revenue went to the Security and Compliance segment. The historical periods have been adjusted to reflect the modified reporting structure.
Segment reporting
10


