FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20100201163027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 26, 2010, Stephen M. Bennett, Former President and Chief Executive Officer of Intuit, Inc., was appointed by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") as an independent director of the Company. Mr. Bennett's appointment is effective on February 8, 2010. A press release announcing Mr. Bennett's appointment to the Board is attached as exhibit 99.01 hereto, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, non-employee directors are eligible to annually receive a fully-vested restricted stock unit ("RSU") award with a value of $180,000 on the first business day following the first regular Board meeting of each fiscal year. Mr. Bennett will receive an initial RSU grant on February 9, 2010, the first business day following the date of his appointment to the Board, representing a prorated amount based on the number of days from the date of his appointment to the Board through the date of the first regular Board meeting in fiscal year 2011.
On the effective date of his appointment, Mr. Bennett is expected to enter into the Company's standard form of Indemnity Agreement which provides for indemnification of the indemnitee to the full extent allowed by Delaware law.
On the date of his appointment, Ms. Bennett was not appointed to any committees of the Board.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.01
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced the appointment of Stephen M. Bennett, former president and chief executive officer at Intuit, to its board of directors effective Feb. 8, 2010. This brings the total number of directors on the board to 11.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Feb. 1, 2010 
"Steve is a strong leader with a great track record at both GE and Intuit," said Enrique Salem, president and chief executive officer, Symantec. "He has an extensive operational background along with strong SMB experience that complements the expertise of our other board members."
At Intuit, Bennett combined the company's historic innovative and customer-driven expertise with strategic and operational rigor. Intuit revenue grew to $2.7 billion in fiscal 2007 from less than $1 billion in fiscal 2000. Under Bennett's leadership Intuit grew its existing businesses while simultaneously expanding into new markets, such as online banking and healthcare.
Bennett joined Intuit after a 23-year career at General Electric, where he managed complex and diverse organizations from consumer appliances to financial services. During his career at GE, he held a variety of key management roles in numerous areas of the business, including GE Capital e-Business, GE Capital Vendor Financial Services, GE Electrical Distribution and Control, GE Appliances, GE Medical Systems and GE Supply.
He currently serves on boards at Qualcomm and Sojern and is chairman of the board at Nemean Networks. In addition to his corporate and start-up board roles, he is Chairman of the Deans Advisory Board for the University of Wisconsin Business School. Bennett graduated from the University of Wisconsin with a bachelor's degree in finance and real estate.
 
Symantec Appoints Stephen M. Bennett to its Board of Directors Page 2 of 2
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in providing security, storage and systems management solutions to help consumers and organizations secure and manage their information-driven world. Our software and services protect against more risks at more points, more completely and efficiently, enabling confidence wherever information is used or stored. More information is available at
www.symantec.com.
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.


