FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20100923160557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The stockholders of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") approved an amendment to Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "EIP") and an amendment to the Company's 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company held on September 20, 2010 (the "Annual Meeting"). The Board of Directors of the Company approved the amendments to the EIP and ESPP on May 4, 2010, subject to stockholder approval at the Annual Meeting. Accordingly, the EIP and ESPP amendments became effective upon stockholder approval at the Annual Meeting. The Company's named executive officers may participate in each of these plans.
As a result of stockholder approval of an amendment to the Company's EIP at the Annual Meeting, the EIP was amended to increase the number of authorized shares of the Company's common stock issuable thereunder by 55,000,000 shares. In addition, as a result of stockholder approval of an amendment to the Company's ESPP at the Annual Meeting, the ESPP was amended to increase the number of authorized shares of the Company's common stock issuable thereunder by 20,000,000 shares.
 
Symantec's 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on September 20, 2010. Set forth below are the matters the stockholders voted on and the final voting results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


