FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20110126161310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 26, 2011, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.01 hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained in this Item 2.02 and in the accompanying Exhibit 99.01 shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01. Other Events
On January 26, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the authorization of a $1 billion share repurchase program. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.02 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.01
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq:SYMC) today reported the results of its third quarter of fiscal year 2011, ended Dec. 31, 2010. GAAP revenue for the fiscal third quarter was $1.604 billion, up 4 percent year-over-year and up 5 percent after adjusting for currency.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Jan. 26, 2011 
"We completed another strong quarter and delivered better than expected results, driven by consumer, backup and data loss prevention as well as stability in the storage management business. In addition, our recent acquisitions are performing above expectations," said Enrique Salem, president and chief executive officer, Symantec. "Our focus on helping customers secure and manage their information and identities in an increasingly mobile, cloud-based and virtualized world positions us well for long-term growth."
"In the December quarter, we delivered on all of our key financial metrics. We continued to generate substantial cash flow from operations and achieved record deferred revenue, as a result of strong bookings performance and the contribution from our recent acquisitions," said James Beer, executive vice president and chief financial officer, Symantec. "This greater than expected deferred revenue performance drove higher sales commissions during the quarter."
GAAP operating margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 was 14.3 percent. GAAP net income for the fiscal third quarter was $132 million. GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.17.
GAAP Results:
 
Symantec Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Results Page 2 of 4
GAAP deferred revenue as of Dec. 31, 2010, was $3.408 billion compared with $3.049 billion as of Jan. 1, 2010, up 12 percent year-over-year on an actual and currency-adjusted basis. Cash flow from operating activities for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 was $460 million compared with $393 million for the same quarter last year, an increase of 17 percent. Symantec ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.452 billion.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 was 23.6 percent. Non-GAAP net income for the third quarter was $272 million. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.35.
Non-GAAP Results:
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, Symantec repurchased approximately 16 million shares for $265 million at an average price of $17.03. Symantec has $1.06 billion remaining in the current and newly approved board authorized stock repurchase program.
Business Segment and Geographic Highlights
For the quarter, Symantec's Consumer segment represented 31 percent of total revenue and increased 4 percent year-over-year (5 percent after adjusting for currency). The Security and Compliance segment represented 26 percent of total revenue and increased 13 percent year-over-year (14 percent after adjusting for currency). The Storage and Server Management segment represented 37 percent of total revenue and increased 1 percent year-over-year (3 percent after adjusting for currency). Services represented 6 percent of total revenue and declined 17 percent year-over-year (15 percent after adjusting for currency).
International revenue represented 52 percent of total revenue in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 and increased 6 percent year-over-year (9 percent after adjusting for currency). The Europe, Middle East and Africa region represented 29 percent of total revenue for the quarter and declined 3 percent year-over-year (increased 5 percent after adjusting for currency). The Asia Pacific/Japan revenue for the quarter represented 17 percent of total revenue and increased 14 percent year-over-year (8 percent after adjusting for currency). The Americas, including the United States, Latin America and Canada, represented 54 percent of total revenue and increased 5 percent year-over-year on an actual and currency-adjusted basis.
Acquisition Highlights
Recent acquisitions continue to perform better than expected. For the quarter, the VeriSign security acquisition generated revenue of $48 million and the PGP and GuardianEdge acquisitions generated revenue of $18 million. The combined earnings per share dilution of these acquisitions was $0.035, which was $0.01 better than expected.
 
Symantec Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Results Page 3 of 4
Symantec utilized its recently acquired authentication and encryption technologies to enhance the Symantec portfolio and leveraged the global Symantec distribution network to grow these product lines. This quarter, VeriSign SSL had its highest bookings in nine quarters, its installed base grew by double digit percentage points and VeriSign's authentication services are now integrated into the , which provides a unified enterprise security management solution. In addition, PGP and GuardianEdge technologies have recently been combined in , supporting full disk encryption on multiple operating systems, including Mac OS.
Symantec Protection Center
Symantec Endpoint Encryption 8.0
Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Guidance
Guidance assumes an exchange rate of $1.35 per Euro for the March 2011 quarter versus the actual weighted average rate of $1.38 per Euro for the March 2010 quarter. The end of period rate for the March 2010 quarter was $1.35, in line with our assumption for the March 2011 quarter.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, ending April 1, 2011, revenue is estimated between $1.585 billion and $1.605 billion, up 4 to 5 percent year-over-year.
GAAP diluted earnings per share are estimated between $0.15 and $0.16. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are estimated between $0.35 and $0.36.
Deferred revenue is expected to be in the range of $3.61 billion and $3.64 billion, up 13 to 14 percent year-over-year.
Conference Call
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the results from the fiscal third quarter 2011, ended Dec. 31, 2010, and to review guidance. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
http://www.symantec.com/invest
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in providing security, storage and systems management solutions to help consumers and organizations secure and manage their information-driven world. Our software and services protect against more risks at more points, more completely and efficiently, enabling confidence wherever information is used or stored. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
 
Symantec Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Results Page 4 of 4
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including projections of future revenue, earnings per share and deferred revenue, as well as projections of amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and stock-based compensation and restructuring charges. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: general economic conditions; maintaining customer and partner relationships; the anticipated growth of certain market segments, particularly with regard to security and storage; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; the successful development of new products and integration of acquired businesses, and the degree to which these products and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. We assume no obligation, and do not intend, to update these forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments. Additional information concerning these and other risks factors is contained in the Risk Factors sections of our Form 10-K for the year ended April 2, 2010.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
Our results of operations have undergone significant change due to a series of acquisitions, the impact of SFAS 123(R), impairment charges and other corporate events. To help our readers understand our past financial performance and our future results, we supplement the financial results that we provide in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, with non-GAAP financial measures. The method we use to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Our non-GAAP results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to our quarterly earnings release and which can be found, along with other financial information, on the investor relations' page of our Web site at .
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
www.symantec.com/invest
 
 
1
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
7
 
We include certain non-GAAP measures in the tracking and forecasting of our earnings and management of our business. For a detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measures, please see Symantec's Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures in Appendix A.
8
 
The non-GAAP financial measures included in the tables adjust for the following items: business combination accounting entries, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, charges related to the amortization of intangible assets and acquired product rights, impairments of assets and certain other items. We believe the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operating performance for the reasons discussed below. Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results, as well as when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods and to our peers and that investors benefit from an understanding of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Consists of expenses for employee stock options, restricted stock units, restricted stock awards and our employee stock purchase plan determined in accordance with the authoritative guidance on stock-based compensation. When evaluating the performance of our individual business units and developing short and long term plans, we do not consider stock-based compensation charges. Our management team is held accountable for cash-based compensation, but we believe that management is limited in its ability to project the impact of stock-based compensation and accordingly is not held accountable for its impact on our operating results. Although stock-based compensation is necessary to attract and retain quality employees, our consideration of stock-based compensation places its primary emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with such grants. In addition, for comparability purposes, we believe it is useful to provide a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies. Furthermore, unlike cash-based compensation, the value of stock-based compensation is determined using a complex formula that incorporates factors, such as market volatility, that are beyond our control.
Stock-based compensation:
When conducting internal development of intangible assets, accounting rules require that we expense the costs as incurred. In the case of acquired businesses, however, we are required to allocate a portion of the purchase price to the accounting value assigned to intangible assets acquired and amortize this amount over the estimated useful lives of the acquired intangibles. The acquired company, in most cases, has itself previously expensed the costs incurred to develop the acquired intangible assets, and the purchase price allocated to these assets is not necessarily reflective of the cost we would incur in developing the intangible asset. We eliminate these amortization charges from our non-GAAP operating results to provide better comparability of pre and post-acquisition operating results and comparability to results of businesses utilizing internally developed intangible assets.
Amortization of acquired product rights and other intangible assets:
We have engaged in various restructuring and transformation activities over the past several years that have resulted in costs associated with severance, benefits, outplacement services and excess facilities. Each restructuring and transformation activity has been a discrete event based on a unique set of business objectives or circumstances, and each has differed from the others in terms of its operational implementation, business impact and scope. We do not engage in restructuring activities in the ordinary course of business. While our operations previously benefited from the employees and facilities covered by our various restructuring charges, these employees and facilities have benefited different parts of our business in different ways, and the amount of these charges has varied significantly from period to period. We believe that it is important to understand these charges; however, we do not believe that these charges are indicative of future operating results and that investors benefit from an understanding of our operating results without giving effect to them.
Restructuring and transformation:
: We have committed to sell certain buildings and land. We have classified these assets as held for sale and adjusted the assets' carrying value when above the fair market value less cost to sell. We do not believe that these charges are indicative of future operating results and believe that investors benefit from an understanding of our operating results without giving effect to them.
Loss and impairment of assets held for sale
New authoritative guidance on business combinations requires us to record in the statement of income, certain items that at the time of an acquisition would have been recorded to goodwill under the old authoritative guidance. We have excluded the effect of acquisition-related expenses from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measures. We incurred expenses in connection with our acquisitions, which we generally would not have otherwise incurred in the periods presented as a part of our continuing operations. Acquisition-related expenses consist of professional service expenses. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items on our operations. Although acquisition-related expenses generally diminish over time with respect to past acquisitions, we generally will incur these expenses in connection with any future acquisitions.
Acquisition-related expenses:
9
 
: These items are the result of currency translation adjustments on the liquidation of dormant entities. We exclude the impact of these items because they are not closely related to, or a function of, our ongoing operations.
Net loss (gain) on legal liquidation of foreign entities
: Effective April 4, 2009, we adopted new authoritative guidance on convertible debt instruments, which changes the method of accounting for our convertible notes. Under this new authoritative guidance, our EPS and net income calculated in accordance with GAAP will be reduced as a result of recognizing incremental non-cash interest expense. We believe it is useful to provide a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes this incremental non-cash interest expense in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies.
Non-cash interest expense
As noted above, we exclude amortization of other intangible assets related to the joint venture from our non-GAAP net income.
Joint venture:
On December 10, 2009, the U.S. Tax Court issued its opinion on the Veritas Software tax assessment for 2000 and 2001, finding that our transfer pricing methodology, with appropriate adjustments, was the best method for assessing the value of the transaction at issue between Veritas and its offshore subsidiary. Our evaluation of the U.S. Tax Court's ruling necessitated the release of certain tax accruals related to this matter. As a result, we realized a one-time benefit to GAAP net income of $78.5 million and a non-GAAP one-time benefit of $16.5 million for the three months ended January 1, 2010. In June 2010, we reached an agreement with the IRS concerning the amount of the adjustment from the favorable U.S. Tax Court decision issued. Accordingly, we further reduced our previous accrual related to this matter to reflect the tax liability arising from this agreement. As a result, we realized a one-time benefit to GAAP net income of $38.5 million and a non-GAAP one-time benefit of $7.3 million for the three months ended July 2, 2010. The non-GAAP benefit for both periods is due to the reversal of accrued interest attributed to the Veritas tax assessment that were recorded to our income statement during post-acquisition periods. Accordingly, the amount of these accruals has not been excluded from Symantec's non-GAAP results.
Release of pre-acquisition tax contingencies:
Due to an acceleration in the use of our Irish net operating losses ("NOLs"), we have released a portion of the tax valuation allowance that was originally recorded against these NOLs in relation to the impairment of goodwill that we recorded solely to our GAAP results during the three months ended January 2, 2009. To enhance consistency and comparability of results across periods, we exclude the impact of the release of the valuation allowance from our non-GAAP results for the three months ended January 1, 2010.
Release of valuation allowance:
10

Exhibit 99.02
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a $1 billion share repurchase program.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Jan. 26, 2010 
"This program reaffirms our commitment to increase shareholder value and our confidence in the long-term strength of the company," said Enrique Salem, president and chief executive officer, Symantec. "Our business continues to generate healthy cash flow which allows us to be opportunistic in repurchasing shares."
This open-ended program is effective immediately. Repurchases will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Depending on market conditions and other factors, these repurchases may be commenced or suspended from time to time without prior notice.
Symantec has approximately $1.06 billion remaining in the current and newly approved program. Since 2008, Symantec has returned $2.1 billion to shareholders through the repurchase of more than 130 million of its shares.
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in providing security, storage and systems management solutions to help consumers and organizations secure and manage their information-driven world. Our software and services protect against more risks at more points, more completely and efficiently, enabling confidence wherever information is used or stored. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on Symantec's current expectations, including statements regarding Symantec's plans and expectations with respect to its new share repurchase program, its confidence in the cash flow generation of its business and its ongoing commitment to increase stockholder value. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements include, but not limited to: future alternative uses for cash and general economic, business and marketing conditions. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors are contained in the Risk Factors sections of our Form 10-K for the year ended April 2, 2010. We assume no obligation, and do not intend, to update these forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:


