FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20111031160054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") held on October 25, 2011. Set forth below are the matters the stockholders voted on and the final voting results.
Proposal 1: Election of Directors:
 
Each of the nine nominees were elected to the Board of Directors, each to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor has been duly elected or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
Proposal 2: Ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2012 fiscal year:
 
The appointment was ratified.
Proposal 3: Approval of an amendment to the Company's 2000 Director Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, to increase the number of authorized shares issuable thereunder by 50,000 shares:
 
The proposal was approved.
Proposal 4: Advisory vote on executive compensation:
 
The proposal was approved.
Proposal 5: Advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation:
 
Based on the results of the vote, and consistent with the Board's recommendation, the Board has determined to hold an advisory vote on executive compensation every year until the next required advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation.
Proposal 6: Stockholder proposal regarding special meetings:
 
The proposal was approved.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


