FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20110726090445.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On July 26, 2011, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") furnished certain modifications to the historical revenue information of its operating segments, as described below. The modified revenue and related operating margin information by segment is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, the company modified its segment reporting structure to more readily match its operating structure. The following modification was made to the segment reporting structure: managed security services (MSS) moved to the Security and Compliance segment from the Services segment. MSS revenue of $72 million and $71 million were moved in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The historical periods have been adjusted to reflect the modified reporting structure.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, the company modified its segment reporting structure to more readily match its operating structure. The following modification was made to the segment reporting structure: managed security services (MSS) moved to the Security and Compliance segment from the Services segment. MSS revenue of $72 million and $71 million were moved in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The historical periods have been adjusted to reflect the modified reporting structure.
 
 
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, the company modified its segment reporting structure to more readily match its operating structure. The following modification was made to the segment reporting structure: managed security services (MSS) moved to the Security and Compliance segment from the Services segment. MSS revenue of $72 million and $71 million were moved in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The historical periods have been adjusted to reflect the modified reporting structure.
 
 
 


