FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20121219161456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
. On December 19, 2012, Stephen Gillett accepted an offer to become the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Symantec Corporation (the "Company"), effective December 21, 2012. A summary of the material terms and conditions of Mr. Gillett's employment offer letter is set forth below. The summary is qualified in all respects by reference to Mr. Gillett's employment offer letter, which is attached as Exhibit 10.01 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. The employment offer letter has no specified term, and Mr. Gillett's employment with the Company will be on an at-will basis. Mr. Gillett will be eligible to participate in Symantec's employee and executive benefit programs, including the Company's Executive Severance Plan and Executive Retention Plan.
General
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Gillett and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. There are also no family relationships between Mr. Gillett and any director or executive officer of the Company and he has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
. Pursuant to his employment offer letter, Mr. Gillett will receive an annual base salary of $875,000 and an annual bonus target of 125% of his annual base salary (prorated for fiscal year 2013 based on his date of hire).
Base Salary and Target Bonus
Mr. Gillett will receive a one-time sign on bonus of $1.313 million, which shall be subject to full or partial repayment by Mr. Gillett if he voluntarily leaves the Company or is terminated for cause within five years of his start date as set forth in detail in the employment offer letter.
Sign-On Bonus.
The Company will grant Mr. Gillett $1 million in value of restricted share units (RSUs) with standard four-year vesting provisions following his commencement of employment. With respect to fiscal year 2014 compensation, the Compensation Committee has approved the following long-term equity value targets for Mr. Gillett: $1.5 million in performance-restricted shares (PRUs); $750,000 in RSUs; and a $750,000 target bonus under the FY14 long-term incentive plan. Each of the foregoing compensation grants for FY14 shall be subject to the terms and conditions applicable to grants made to all other executive officers of the Company and shall be valued at the time the grants are formally approved and made by the Company's Compensation Committee.
Equity Grants.
. In order for Mr. Gillett to help defray the cost to repay certain obligations to his current employer, the Company will pay Mr. Gillett $2,552,000 in cash. This cash payment shall also be subject to full or partial repayment by Mr. Gillett if he voluntarily leaves the Company or is terminated for cause within five years of his start date as set forth in detail in the employment offer letter.
Additional Incentives Based on Obligations to Best Buy
. Mr. Gillett will receive reimbursement for his reasonable and customary relocation expenses associated with his move to the San Francisco Bay Area.
Relocation Assistance
Mr. Gillett, 36 years old, has served as Executive Vice President and President, Best Buy Digital, Global Marketing and Strategy of Best Buy Co., Inc., since March 2012. From May 2008 to March 2012, Mr. Gillett was Executive Vice President, Digital Ventures and Chief Information Officer at Starbucks, Inc. Mr. Gillett served as Chief Information Officer of Corbis Corporation, a digital media company, from May 2006 to May 2008. Prior to his role at Corbis, Mr. Gillett held senior technology positions with various technology companies including Yahoo! Inc., CNET Networks and Sun Microsystems, Inc. He received a bachelor's degree from University of Oregon and a master's degree in business administration from San Francisco State University.
Biography.
Effective December 19, 2012, Mr. Gillett resigned from the Company's Board of Directors and from the Audit Committee thereof. Mr. Gillett was appointed to the Company's Board of Directors in January 2012. Immediately following Mr. Gillett's resignation, the Board of Directors reduced the number of authorized directors from 9 to 8.
Resignation from Board of Directors.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.01
 
December 19, 2012
Dear Stephen,
We are delighted to offer you the position of Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer at Symantec Corporation, reporting to Steve Bennett. You are joining a talented and passionate team driven to protect the world's information and the people who use it. We do work that matters, and we are confident you will find rewarding opportunities with us.
Start Date
We would like you to start as soon as reasonably practical. When you and Steve Bennett determine your first day of employment, please contact Bettina Koblick, Vice President, Global Talent Organization.
Salary
Your starting annual base salary will be $875,000.00.
Cash Sign-On Bonus:
In addition to your salary, you will receive a one-time sign-on bonus in the amount of $1,313,000.00 (less withholding allowances). This sign-on bonus will be paid promptly after you start work, and will be subject to a repayment obligation. In the event you voluntarily leave the company or are terminated for Cause prior to three years from the date of the start of your employment with Symantec, you agree that you will repay the full amount of this cash sign-on bonus. In the event you voluntarily leave the company or are terminated for Cause prior to the end of the fourth year from your start date, you agree that you will repay two thirds of this cash bonus, and if prior to the end of the fifth year from your start date, you agree that you will repay one third of this cash bonus. As used in this letter, "Cause" means (i) gross negligence or willful misconduct by you in the performance of duties to the company (other than as a result of a disability) that has resulted or is likely to result in substantial and material damage to the company, after a demand for substantial performance is delivered by the company which specifically identifies the manner in which it believes that you have not substantially performed your duties and provides you with a reasonable opportunity to cure any alleged gross negligence or willful misconduct; (ii) your commission of any act of fraud with respect to the company or its affiliates; or (iii) your conviction of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude causing material harm to the business and affairs of the company. No act or failure to act by you shall be considered "willful" if done or omitted by you in good faith with reasonable belief that such action or omission was in the best interest of the company.
Symantec Annual Executive Incentive Plan
Based on your position, you will participate in the Symantec Annual Executive Incentive Plan, an incentive program that rewards achievement of Symantec Corporation's financial objectives as well as your individual performance. At 100% of company and individual performance, you will be eligible to receive an additional 125% of your annual base salary, prorated based on your date of hire. To receive the bonus, you must satisfy the requirements of the Symantec Annual Executive Incentive Plan. Details of the Plan will be available to you once you begin your employment.
 
 
Equity Grants
Upon your acceptance of this offer and your commencement of work for Symantec, Symantec's Compensation Committee will grant you restricted shares (RSUs) valued at $1,000,000 (calculated based on the value of Symantec's stock at the time the grants are formally approved and made). This RSU grant will have four year vesting (25% per year). The Compensation Committee has also approved long term equity value targets that it will grant to you in 2013 at the beginning of Symantec's fiscal year (at the time of our annual executive grant). Your long-term incentives will be allocated as follows:
 
 
 
The specific number of PRU and RSU shares that will be granted to you in 2013 will be calculated based on the value of Symantec's stock at the time the grants are formally approved and made by the Compensation Committee.
Additional Incentives Based on Obligations to Your Current Employer
You have informed us that, if you voluntarily leave your current job, you will be required to repay certain amounts related to various sign-on and retention cash bonus payments you received when you started that job. In order to help you defray these repayment obligations Symantec will pay you $2,552,000. The cash payment noted in this section will be paid promptly after you start work, and will be subject to a repayment obligation. In the event you voluntarily leave the company or are terminated for Cause prior to three years from the date of the start of your employment with Symantec, you agree that you will repay the full amount of this cash payment. In the event you voluntarily leave the company or are terminated for Cause prior to the end of the fourth year from your start date, you agree that you will repay two thirds of this cash payment, and if prior to the end of the fifth year from your start date, you agree that you will repay one third of this cash payment.
Relocation Assistance:
You will be reimbursed for your reasonable and customary relocation expenses associated with your move to the San Francisco Bay Area in accordance with a relocation plan that will be provided separately. The relocation plan will outline the total amount that Symantec will pay to you for expense reimbursement for your relocation (including specific expense limits in certain categories, like travel and temporary housing expenses, or the coverage of any potential losses if your current house does not sell at or above its fair market value in a reasonable time).
Benefits
You are eligible to participate in a wide variety of generous employee benefit plans, including Symantec's Stock Purchase Plan, matching 401(k) savings and investment plan, and health insurance, among many others. For information on your Symantec U.S. Benefits, please visit our website. Choosing the right combination of benefits is an important personal decision. Use this site to learn your options and discuss your current and future needs with your family. After your start date, you can enroll in the benefits that best fit your life.
www.symantecbenefits.com
 
 
Proprietary Information
The attached must be signed and returned on your first day of employment. It requires that you represent and warrant to us that: 1) you are not subject to any terms or conditions that restrict or may restrict your ability to carry out your duties for Symantec; 2) you will not bring with you any confidential or proprietary material of any former employer; and 3) you will hold in confidence any proprietary information received as an employee of Symantec and will assign to us any inventions that you make while employed by Symantec.
Symantec Confidentiality and Intellectual Property Agreement
Company Policies
As a Symantec employee, you agree to comply with all applicable Company policies, including but not limited to, our Code of Conduct.
Employment Status
This letter does not constitute a contract of employment for any specific period of time but creates an "employment at will" relationship. This means that you do not have a contract of employment for any particular duration. You are free to resign at any time. Similarly, Symantec is free to terminate your employment at any time for any reason with or without Cause. Any statements or representation to the contrary, or contradicting any provisions of this letter, are superseded by this offer. Participation in any of Symantec's stock or benefit programs is not assurance of continued employment for any particular period of time. Any modification of this form must be in writing and signed by the Company CEO.
Federal law requires that Symantec document an employee's authorization to work in the United States. To comply, Symantec must have a completed Form I-9 for you on your first working day. You agree to provide Symantec with documentation required by the Form I-9 to confirm you are authorized to work in the United States. If you have any questions about this requirement, which applies to U.S. citizens and non-U.S. citizens alike, contact your recruiter.
 
 
Please review this offer and confirm your acceptance by the end of business on December 28, 2012 by signing in the space indicated below, and emailing (scanning) to and . This offer is contingent upon successful completion of your background check. Should you have any questions on this offer, do not hesitate to call Bettina Koblick at 650-527-5160 or the HR helpdesk at 1-800-497-2580.
scott_taylor@symantec.com
Bettina_koblick@symantec.com
Stephen, we are very pleased to have you come work at Symantec. We will continue to be the leading force in protecting the world's information and peopleand we look forward to you joining us to make a difference in the world.
Sincerely,
 
Bettina Koblick
Vice President, Global Talent Organization
I accept the offer of employment stated in this letter,
 
 


