FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20120410080200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 10, 2012, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") announced the appointment of Andrew Del Matto as its new Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, effective April 30, 2012. Mr. Del Matto, 53 years old, had served as the Company's Corporate Treasurer and Vice President of Finance Business Operations since September 2009. During his seven year tenure at the Company, Mr. Del Matto had also led the Company's Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis, and Revenue and Cost Accounting teams. Prior to joining Symantec in January 2005, Mr. Del Matto had been employed by Inktomi Corporation and SGI Corporation in a variety of finance and accounting leadership roles. Mr. Del Matto started his career with KPMG LLP as a certified public accountant. Mr. Del Matto holds a bachelor of science degree from Ohio University and a master's in business administration degree from Golden Gate University.
Phillip A. Bullock, who was appointed as Symantec's Chief Accounting Officer in September 2009, announced he will be leaving the Company to lead the tax department at Apple, Inc., and not due to any disagreement with the Company on any matters relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


