FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20121024161900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 24, 2012, Symantec Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 28, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today reported the results of its second quarter of fiscal year 2013, ended Sept. 28, 2012. GAAP revenue for the fiscal second quarter was $1.7 billion, up 1 percent year-over-year and up 5 percent after adjusting for currency.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  October 24, 2012 
"I am pleased with the team's results and progress made this quarter. We delivered solid results during the first quarter of a significant transition for the company," said Steve Bennett, chairman, president and chief executive officer, Symantec. "After travelling the world speaking to employees, customers and shareholders, there is a strong sense of excitement about our future success. While focused on running the company, the team is also hard at work building a strategy and operational plan to deliver greater than 5 percent organic growth and 30 percent operating margins on a sustainable basis within the next two-to-three years."
"We delivered better than expected results with record September revenue and deferred revenue, in addition to strong net income and EPS as we continue to make improvements to the performance of our businesses, said James Beer, executive vice president and chief financial officer, Symantec. "We saw strength in enterprise security and backup as well as growth in consumer security."
"
 
Symantec Reports Record Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 Results
Page 2 of 4
 
GAAP Results for second quarter of fiscal year 2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Results for second quarter of fiscal year 2013
 
 
 
Business Segment Highlights for the Quarter
 
 
 
 
Symantec Reports Record Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 Results
Page 3 of 4
 
Geographic Highlights for the Quarter
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Guidance
Guidance assumes an exchange rate of $1.30 per Euro for the December 2012 quarter versus the actual weighted average rate of $1.35 and an end of period rate of $1.30 per Euro for the December 2011 quarter. Our guidance assumes an effective tax rate of 28.5 percent and a common stock equivalents total for the quarter of approximately 700 million shares.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2013, Symantec expects:
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
Symantec has scheduled a conference call for 5 p.m. ET/2 p.m. PT today to discuss the results from the fiscal 2013 second quarter, ended Sept. 28, 2012, and to review guidance. Interested parties may access the conference call on the Internet at . To listen to the live call, please go to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay and script of our officers' remarks will be available on the investor relations' home page shortly after the call is completed.
http://www.symantec.com/invest
Symantec Reports Record Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 Results
Page 4 of 4
 
About Symantec
Symantec protects the world's information, and is the global leader in security, backup and availability solutions. Our innovative products and services protect people and information in any environment  from the smallest mobile device, to the enterprise data center, to cloud-based systems. Our industry-leading expertise in protecting data, identities and interactions gives our customers confidence in a connected world. More information is available at or by connecting with Symantec at: .
www.symantec.com
go.symantec.com/socialmedia
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This press release contains statements regarding our financial and business results, which may be considered forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws, including projections of future revenue, earnings per share and deferred revenue, as well as projections of amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and stock-based compensation and restructuring charges. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from results expressed or implied in this press release. Such risk factors include those related to: general economic conditions; maintaining customer and partner relationships; the anticipated growth of certain market segments, particularly with regard to security and storage; the competitive environment in the software industry; changes to operating systems and product strategy by vendors of operating systems; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the timing and market acceptance of new product releases and upgrades; the successful development of new offerings and integration of acquired businesses, and the degree to which these offerings and businesses gain market acceptance. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements in this press release. We assume no obligation, and do not intend, to update these forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments. Additional information concerning these and other risks factors is contained in the Risk Factors sections of our Form 10-K for the year ended March 30, 2012 and our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 11, 2012.
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION: Our results of operations have undergone significant change due to a series of acquisitions, the impact of stock-based compensation, impairment charges and other corporate events. To help our readers understand our past financial performance and our future results, we supplement the financial results that we provide in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, with non-GAAP financial measures. The method we use to produce non-GAAP results is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Our non-GAAP results are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to our quarterly earnings release and which can be found, along with other financial information, on the investor relations' page of our Web site at www.symantec.com/invest.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We include certain non-GAAP measures in the tracking and forecasting of our earnings and management of our business. For a detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measures, please see our Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures in Appendix A.
 
 
 
The non-GAAP financial measures included in the tables adjust for the following items: business combination accounting entries, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring and transition charges, charges related to the amortization of intangible assets, impairments of assets and certain other items. We believe the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operating performance for the reasons discussed below. Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's operating results, as well as when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate comparisons of the Company's performance to prior periods and to our peers and that investors benefit from an understanding of these non-GAAP financial measures.
: Consists of expenses for employee stock options, restricted stock units, restricted stock awards, performance based awards and our employee stock purchase plan determined in accordance with the authoritative guidance on stock-based compensation. When evaluating the performance of our individual business units and developing short and long term plans, we do not consider stock-based compensation charges. Our management team is held accountable for cash-based compensation, but we believe that management is limited in its ability to project the impact of stock-based compensation and accordingly is not held accountable for its impact on our operating results. Although stock-based compensation is necessary to attract and retain quality employees, our consideration of stock-based compensation places its primary emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with such grants. In addition, for comparability purposes, we believe it is useful to provide a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies. Furthermore, unlike cash-based compensation, the value of stock-based compensation is determined using complex formulas that incorporate factors, such as market volatility, that are beyond our control.
Stock-based compensation
 
: When conducting internal development of intangible assets, accounting rules require that we expense the costs as incurred. In the case of acquired businesses, however, we are required to allocate a portion of the purchase price to the accounting value assigned to intangible assets acquired and amortize this amount over the estimated useful lives of the acquired intangible assets. The acquired company, in most cases, has itself previously expensed the costs incurred to develop the acquired intangible assets, and the purchase price allocated to these assets is not necessarily reflective of the cost we would incur in developing the intangible asset. We eliminate these amortization charges from our non-GAAP operating results to provide better comparability of pre- and post-acquisition operating results and comparability to results of businesses utilizing internally developed intangible assets.
Amortization of intangible assets
: We have engaged in various restructuring and transition activities over the past several years that have resulted in costs associated with severance, facilities costs, and transition and other related costs. Transition and other related costs consist of severance costs associated with acquisition integrations in efforts to streamline our business operations, consulting charges associated with the implementation of a new Enterprise Resource Planning system, and costs related to the outsourcing of certain back office functions. Each restructuring and transition activity has been a discrete event based on a unique set of business objectives or circumstances, and each has differed from the others in terms of its operational implementation, business impact and scope. We do not engage in restructuring or transition activities in the ordinary course of business. While our operations previously benefited from the employees and facilities covered by our various restructuring charges, these employees and facilities have benefited different parts of our business in different ways, and the amount of these charges has varied significantly from period to period. We believe that it is important to understand these charges and, we believe that investors benefit from excluding these charges from our operating results to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of current operating performance and comparisons to past operating performance.
Restructuring and transition
The authoritative guidance on business combinations requires us to record in the statement of income, certain items that at the time of an acquisition would have been recorded to goodwill under the old authoritative guidance. We have excluded the effect of acquisition-related expenses from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measures. We incurred expenses in connection with our acquisitions, which we generally would not have otherwise incurred in the periods presented as a part of our continuing operations. Acquisition-related expenses consist of professional service expenses. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items on our operations. Although acquisition-related expenses generally diminish over time with respect to past acquisitions, we generally will incur these expenses in connection with any future acquisitions.
Acquisition-related expenses:
: Effective April 4, 2009, we adopted authoritative guidance on convertible debt instruments, which changed the method of accounting for our convertible notes. Under this authoritative guidance, our EPS and net income calculated in accordance with GAAP have been reduced as a result of recognizing incremental non-cash interest expense. We believe it is useful to provide a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes this incremental non-cash interest expense in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate the comparison of our results to the results of our peer companies.
Non-cash interest expense
: This constitutes the loss from the sale of the Company's available-for-sale securities. The Company's management excludes this loss when evaluating its ongoing performance and therefore excludes this loss when presenting non-GAAP financial measures.
Loss on sale of marketable securities
: As noted above, we exclude amortization of intangible assets related to the joint venture from our non-GAAP net income.
Joint venture
: During the September 2012 quarter, certain tax accruals related to pre-acquisition contingencies were effectively settled. As a result, we realized benefits to GAAP net income of $12 million and non-GAAP net income of $5 million. The non-GAAP benefit was due to the reversal of accrued interest recorded in our income statement during our post acquisition periods. Accordingly, the amount of this accrual has not been excluded from Symantec's non-GAAP results.
Release of pre-acquisition tax contingencies
: Due to an election made for state income tax purposes, we have determined that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will utilize all of our state credit carryforwards based on the GAAP income allocated to the state. Accordingly, a valuation allowance was recorded against our state credit carryforwards during the three months ended September 28, 2012.
Change in valuation allowance
 


