FILE:SYMC/SYMC-8K-20120126104733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 23, 2012, Stephen E. Gillett, age 36, Chief Information Officer and Executive Vice President, Digital Ventures of Starbucks Corporation, was appointed by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Symantec Corporation (the "Company") as an independent director of the Company. Mr. Gillett's appointment is effective on January 23, 2012. A press release announcing Mr. Gillett's appointment to the Board is attached as exhibit 99.01 hereto, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the Company's Non-Employee Director Grant Policy, each non-employee member of the Board shall be granted an annual award of fully-vested shares of the Company's common stock having a fair market value on the Grant Date equal to $200,000 issued under the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Mr. Gillett will receive an initial grant on January 30, 2012, the first business day during which the Company's trading window is open following the date of his appointment to the Board, representing a prorated amount based on the number of days from the date of his appointment to the Board through fiscal year 2012.
On the effective date of his appointment, Mr. Gillett is expected to enter into the Company's standard form of Indemnity Agreement which provides for indemnification of the indemnitee to the full extent allowed by Delaware law.
On the date of his appointment, Mr. Gillett was appointed to the Audit Committee.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
News Release
 
Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC) today announced that Stephen Gillett, Starbucks, chief information officer and executive vice president, Digital Ventures, was appointed to the Company's Board of Directors effective Jan. 23, 2012. As an independent director of the Company, Gillett will serve on Symantec's Audit Committee. Named to Fortune Magazine's 40 under 40 in 2010, recipient of the 2010 Aspen Institute Henry Crown Fellowship and recognized as the 2011 Chief of the Year' by InformationWeek, Gillett is a well-respected CIO and leader in the future of digital interactions between businesses and consumers.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Jan. 26, 2012 
"Gillett's enthusiasm and forward thinking will add a unique perspective to help drive Symantec strategy," said Enrique Salem, president and chief executive officer, Symantec. "We look forward to benefiting from his innovative technology experience that is directly relevant to Symantec's vision of helping people work and play freely in a connected world."
"We welcome Stephen to the board," said Steve Bennett, chairman of the board of directors, Symantec. "He brings to the board valuable hands-on experience and innovative ideas for emerging platforms and all aspects of digital engagement based in the reality only a CIO understands."
"I am very excited to be working with the Symantec team, said Gillett. "Symantec is taking technology and connecting with consumers and businesses in new ways. I look forward to helping Symantec extend its leadership role as the brand that protects and manages information and identities, which is at the core of everything we do in a digital world."
Stephen Gillett Appointed to Symantec Board of Directors
Page 2 of 2
Gillett currently leads Starbucks efforts to use technology to provide robust operational capability and to connect with consumers in a global marketplace. As Starbucks CIO, Gillett is responsible for all global enterprise technology activities at Starbucks, which includes business intelligence, emerging platforms, software engineering, technology services, program management, information security, global infrastructure, and international technology. As executive vice president, Digital Ventures, Gillett is responsible for all digital business activities at Starbucks from e-commerce to mobility and digital music. Prior to Starbucks, Gillett's experience included senior technology leadership positions with Corbis, Yahoo!, and CNET Networks
About Symantec
Symantec is a global leader in providing security, storage and systems management solutions to help consumers and organizations secure and manage their information-driven world. Our software and services protect against more risks at more points, more completely and efficiently, enabling confidence wherever information is used or stored. More information is available at .
www.symantec.com
If you would like additional information on Symantec Corporation and its products, please visit the Symantec News Room at . All prices noted are in U.S. dollars and are valid only in the United States.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
http://www.symantec.com/news
Symantec and the Symantec Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Symantec Corporation or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.


