Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Annual Report on Form 10 K contains certain statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and are made in reliance upon the protections provided by such acts for forward looking statements. These forward looking statements (such as when we describe what will, may or should occur, what we plan, intend, estimate, believe, expect or anticipate will occur, and other similar statements) include, but are not limited to, statements regarding future sales and operating results, future prospects, anticipated benefits of proposed (or future) acquisitions and new facilities, growth, the capabilities and capacities of business operations, any financial or other guidance and all statements that are not based on historical fact, but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events. We make certain assumptions when making forward looking statements, any of which could prove inaccurate, including, but not limited to, statements about our future operating results and business plans. Therefore, we can give no assurance that the results implied by these forward looking statements will be realized. Furthermore, the inclusion of forward looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that future events, plans or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved. The ultimate correctness of these forward looking statements is dependent upon a number of known and unknown risks and events, and is subject to various uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. The following important factors, among others, could affect future results and events, causing those results and events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward looking statements: business conditions and growth in our customers industries, the electronic manufacturing services industry and the general economy; the results of the review of our past stock option grants being conducted by governmental authorities and any related litigation and any ramifications thereof; variability of operating results; our ability to effectively address certain operational issues that have adversely affected certain of our US operations; our dependence on a limited number of major customers; the potential consolidation of our customer base; availability of components; our dependence on certain industries; seasonality; the variability of customer requirements; our ability to successfully negotiate definitive agreements and consummate acquisitions, and to integrate operations following consummation of acquisitions; our ability to take advantage of our past and current restructuring efforts to improve utilization and realize savings and whether any such activity will adversely affect our cost structure, ability to service customers and labor relations; other economic, business and competitive factors affecting our customers, our industry and business generally; and other factors that we may not have currently identified or quantified. 44 Table of Contents For a further list and description of various risks, relevant factors and uncertainties that could cause future results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward looking statements, see the Risk Factors section contained in Part I of this document. Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. All forward looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur, or of which we hereafter become aware. You should read this document and the documents that we incorporate by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10 K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We may not update these forward looking statements, even if our situation changes in the future. All forward looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Stock Option Litigation and Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements On March 18, 2006, The Wall Street Journal published an article that reported on certain academic studies that suggested that public companies may have backdated stock option grants. The studies had not identified specific companies that may have backdated options, but the article sought to do so. The article identified our President and CEO, Timothy L. Main, as someone who, based on statistical patterns, may have received backdated options. On April 26, 2006, a shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in State Circuit Court in Pinellas County, Florida on behalf of Mary Lou Gruber, a purported shareholder of ours, naming us as a nominal defendant, and naming certain of our officers, Scott D. Brown, Executive Vice President, Mark T. Mondello, Chief Operating Officer, and Timothy L. Main, Chief Executive Officer, President and a Board member, as well as certain of our Directors, Mel S. Lavitt, William D. Morean, Frank A. Newman, Steven A. Raymund and Thomas A. Sansone, as defendants (the Initial Action). Mr. Morean and Mr. Sansone were our previous Chief Executive Officer and President, respectively (such two individuals, with the defendant officers, collectively, the Officer Defendants). The Initial Action alleged that the named defendant officers and directors breached certain of their fiduciary duties to us in connection with certain stock option grants between August 1998 and October 2004. Specifically, it alleged that the defendant directors (other than Mr. Morean and Mr. Main), in their capacity as members of our Board of Director Audit or Compensation Committee, at the behest of the Officer Defendants, backdated stock option grants to make it appear they were granted on a prior date when our stock price was lower. The Initial Action alleged that such alleged backdated options unduly benefited the Officer Defendants, resulted in us issuing materially inaccurate and misleading financial statements and caused millions of dollars of damages to us. The Initial Action also sought to have the Officer Defendants disgorge certain options they received, including the proceeds of options exercised, as well as certain equitable relief and attorneys fees and costs. On May 2, 2006, we were notified by the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) of an informal inquiry concerning our stock option grants. On May 3, 2006, our Board of Directors had a meeting, which had been arranged prior to the SEC contacting us, to discuss the Initial Action. At that meeting, our Board of Directors appointed the Special Committee to review the allegations in the Initial Action. On May 10, 2006, the law firms representing the plaintiff in the Initial Action, along with two additional law firms, representing a purported shareholder of ours, Robert Barone, filed a lawsuit in State Circuit Court in Pinellas County, Florida that was nearly identical to the Initial Action (with the Initial Action, collectively, the State Derivative Actions). On May 17, 2006, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorneys office for the Southern District of New York requesting certain stock option related material. On July 12, 2006, the parties to the State Derivative Actions filed a stipulation and proposed order of consolidation, which also appointed co lead counsel. The Court signed the order on July 17, 2006, consolidated the cases under the caption In re Jabil Derivative Litigation, No. 06 2917 CI 08 (the Consolidated State Derivative Action), and ordered that the complaint filed in the Initial 45 Table of Contents Action would become the operative complaint. We have entered into a stipulation extending the time for us to respond to the Consolidated State Derivative Action until June 29, 2007. Two Federal derivative suits were also filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division, on July 10, 2006 and December 6, 2006 respectively (collectively, the Federal Derivative Actions). The complaints assert virtually identical factual allegations and claims as in the State Derivative Actions. On January 26, 2007, the District Court consolidated the two Federal Derivative Actions under the caption In re Jabil Circuit Options Backdating Litigation, 8:06 cv 01257 (the Consolidated Federal Derivative Action) and appointed co lead counsel. We have entered into a stipulation extending our time to respond to the Consolidated Federal Derivative Action until June 29, 2007. On September 18, 2006, a putative shareholder class action was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division encaptioned Edward J. Goodman Life Income Trust v. Jabil Circuit, Inc., et al., No. 8:06 cv 01716 against us and various present and former officers and directors, including Forbes I.J. Alexander, Scott D. Brown, Laurence S. Grafstein, Mel S. Lavitt, Chris Lewis, Timothy Main, Mark T. Mondello, William D. Morean, Lawrence J. Murphy, Frank A. Newman, Steven A. Raymund, Thomas A. Sansone and Kathleen Walters on behalf of a proposed class of plaintiffs comprised of persons that purchased shares of ours between September 19, 2001 and June 21, 2006. The complaint asserted claims under Section 10(b) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder, as well as under Section 20(a) of that Act. The complaint alleged that the defendants had engaged in a scheme to fraudulently backdate the grant dates of options for various senior officers and directors, causing our financial statements to understate management compensation and overstate net earnings, thereby inflating our stock price. In addition, the complaint alleged that our proxy statements falsely stated that we had adhered to our option grant policy of granting options at the closing price of our shares on the trading date immediately prior to the date of the grant. A second putative class action, containing virtually identical legal claims and allegations of fact, encaptioned Steven M. Noe v. Jabil Circuit, Inc., et al., No., 8:06 cv 01883, was filed on October 12, 2006. The two actions were consolidated into a single proceeding (the Consolidated Class Action) and on January 18, 2007, the Court appointed The Laborers Pension Trust Fund for Northern California and Pension Trust Fund for Operating Engineers as lead plaintiffs in the action. On March 5, 2007, the lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated class action complaint (the Consolidated Class Action Complaint). The Consolidated Class Action Complaint purported to be brought on behalf of all persons who purchased our publicly traded securities between September 19, 2001 and December 21, 2006, and named us and certain of our current and former officers, including Forbes I.J. Alexander, Scott D. Brown, Wesley B. Edwards, Chris A. Lewis, Mark T. Mondello, Robert L. Paver and Ronald J. Rapp, as well as certain of our Directors, Mel S. Lavitt, William D. Morean, Frank A. Newman, Laurence S. Grafstein, Steven A. Raymund, Lawrence J. Murphy, Kathleen A. Walters and Thomas A. Sansone, as defendants. The Consolidated Class Action Complaint alleged violations of Sections 10(b), 20(a), and 14(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder. It contained allegations of fact and legal claims similar to the original putative class actions and, in addition, alleged that the defendants failed to timely disclose the facts and circumstances that led us, on June 12, 2006, to announce that we were lowering our prior guidance for net earnings for the third quarter of fiscal year 2006. On April 30, 2007, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Consolidated Class Action Complaint asserting claims substantially similar to the Consolidated Class Action Complaint it replaced but adding additional allegations relating to the restatement of earnings previously announced in connection with the correction of errors in the calculation of compensation expense for certain stock option grants. We have until sixty days following the filing of the First Amended Consolidated Class Action Complaint to file our response and will vigorously defend the action. The Special Committee has conducted its review and analysis of the claims asserted in the derivative actions and has concluded that the evidence does not support a finding of intentional manipulation of stock option grant pricing by any member of management. Our internal review, similarly, did not find evidence of backdating. However, both the Special Committee review and our internal review identified certain errors in the ways in which we accounted for certain option grants. These errors, which are described more fully below, generally fall 46 Table of Contents into one of three categories. First, there were situations in which we incorrectly identified the measurement date used to establish the exercise price for the options grant. These situations, for the most part, occurred because we believed that a grant was final when our Board Committee approved the options when, in fact, the identities of grant recipients or the number of options they were to receive had not yet been established with certainty. Under the applicable accounting literature, we should not have identified a measurement date until the grant recipients and number of awards were established with certainty. Second, there was one situation in which a grant to a large number of non executive employees was finalized but, before the options could be distributed, the price of the underlying stock fell significantly. Because we did not wish to issue these employees underwater options, we cancelled those options and issued new ones. Under the applicable accounting literature, we should have treated the subsequent grant as a repricing of the first grant, and applied variable accounting for the life of these grants. Third, we retained as a consultant an individual who served on the Board of Directors, and awarded him options as compensation for his performance of those consulting services. The applicable accounting literature required that we account for options granted to a consultant differently from the way that we accounted for options granted to an employee, which we failed to do. The Special Committee concluded that it is not in our best interests to pursue the derivative actions and will assert that position on the Companys behalf in each of the pending derivative lawsuits. We continue to cooperate fully with the Special Committee, the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys office. We cannot predict what effect such reviews may have. See Risk Factors We are involved in reviews of our historical stock option grant practices. In response to the findings of the Special Committee and our internal review, our Board, with the assistance of outside consultants, is overseeing an evaluation and revision of our stock based award grant procedures and other related corporate governance issues. We anticipate that our Board will enhance its procedures governing the manner in which future stock based awards will be made. Our restated Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10 K incorporate additional stock based compensation expense, including the income tax impacts related to the restatement adjustments. The total restatement impact, net of tax, for the years ended August 31, 1996 through August 31, 2003, of $20.0 million, has been reflected as an adjustment to retained earnings as of September 1, 2003 and the impact on previously reported net income for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 is presented below. Net Income For the Fiscal Year Year Ended August 31, Retained Earnings As of Sept. 1, 2003 2005 2004 (in thousands) As previously reported $ 231,847 $ 166,900 $ 623,053 Adjustments: Stock compensation expense (35,404 ) 5,756 (24,618 ) Income tax benefit (provision) 7,432 1,074 4,627 Total adjustments (27,972 ) 6,830 (19,991 ) As adjusted $ 203,875 $ 173,730 $ 603,062 47 Table of Contents The table below presents the impact of the individual restatement adjustments, which are explained in further detail following the table (in thousands): 2005 2004 TotalAdjust ments toRetainedEarnings 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 STOCK BASED COMPENSATION (EXPENSE): Incorrect identification of measurement dates $ (24,338 ) $ (4,426 ) $ (8,566 ) $ (4,150 ) $ (2,291 ) $ (791 ) $ (779 ) $ (246 ) $ (123 ) $ (123 ) $ (63 ) Subsequent change to a finalized grant (11,076 ) 10,043 $ (12,189 ) (12,023 ) 1,762 (1,928 ) Stock option grants to a director in his capacity as a consultant 10 139 $ (3,863 ) 23 (114 ) 265 (2,974 ) (941 ) (122 ) Total stock based compensation $ (35,404 ) $ 5,756 $ (24,618 ) $ (16,150 ) $ (643 ) $ (2,454 ) $ (3,753 ) $ (1,187 ) $ (245 ) $ (123 ) $ (63 ) INCOME TAX BENEFIT: Total income tax benefit (expense) $ 7,432 $ 1,074 $ 4,627 $ 1,713 $ 669 $ 259 $ 1,402 $ 440 $ 86 $ 39 $ 19 Total increase (decrease) to consolidated net income $ (27,972 ) $ 6,830 $ (19,991 ) $ (14,437 ) $ 26 $ (2,195 ) $ (2,351 ) $ (747 ) $ (159 ) $ (84 ) $ (44 ) Stock based compensation We have made the adjustments reflected above that relate to stock based compensation because we decided that we had made certain errors in accounting for certain options grants. We reached this conclusion in consultation with accounting experts and legal counsel and in consideration of the findings of the Special Committee and our internal review. The accounting literature in effect during the relevant period was primarily Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25). This guidance focused on the establishment of a measurement date for purposes of determining compensation cost relating to option awards. Under APB 25, measurement date is defined as the first date on which both of the following are known: (1) the number of shares that an individual employee is entitled to receive and (2) the option or purchase price, if any. This accounting guidance provided that companies would not have to record compensation expense in connection with options granted to employees, officers and directors if the quoted market price of the stock at the measurement date of the option award was equal to the amount the employee was required to pay. In contrast, companies would have to record compensation expense to the extent that the quoted market price of the stock at the measurement date exceeded the amount the employee is required to pay. Generally, we as did other companies, historically set the exercise price for our option grants by reference to the closing price of the Companys stock on the day before the date of the grant. With this background, the errors that we made can be categorized as follows: (a) Incorrect identification of measurement dates. As a general proposition, we identified the grant date, which we used to establish the measurement date, as the date that the Compensation Committee (or some other decision maker, as permitted) met or otherwise acted to grant options. However, in some situations, the grant may not have been final, on that date, as defined in the accounting literature, because it may still have been subject to the exercise of discretion as to the individuals who were to receive the options or the amounts they were to receive. To identify these situations, we reviewed documentary and other evidence to determine the dates on which the Compensation Committee (or other decision maker) decided the terms of the grants. In those situations where we determined that the grant had not been finalized until some date after the grant date that the Company previously had used to establish the measurement date for purposes of calculating compensation expense, we used the newly identified grant date to establish the appropriate measurement date, and recalculated compensation expense based on that date. More specifically, the methodology that we used to identify new or to confirm previously identified grant dates, and to recalculate compensation expense, identified the point in time at 48 Table of Contents which the exercise of discretion no longer applied to the grant. Many changes to lists of grant recipients after the originally identified measurement date were administrative in nature, such as changes to an individuals name or employment status. We did not consider such administrative changes to represent the exercise of discretion. We did, however, consider other changes to grant lists to represent the exercise of discretion and recalculated compensation expense accordingly. The types of situations that we considered to be within this latter category included: (i) situations in which there were grants to groups of individuals, but subsequent changes to the grants to some members of those groups, with the continued use of the initial measurement date; (ii) situations in which there was a final grant to certain individuals and a subsequent grant to other individuals, with the use of the same measurement date as the initial grant; (iii) situations in which there was a final grant to individuals and a subsequent decision to grant additional options to some of the same individuals, with the use of the same measurement date as the initial grant; and (iv) a situation in which grants to certain officers and a small group of highly valued non officers were believed to be final when, in fact, they were subject to further discretionary adjustments, yet the Company continued to use the originally identified grant date for purposes of establishing the measurement date. Additionally, there was a situation in which a member of the administrative staff mistakenly believed that a grant had occurred on a particular date, and so identified a measurement date based on that date when the grant, in fact, had occurred on a different date. Other than as described below, the number of employees and grants affected by the errors was minimal. In our fiscal years 2002 and 2003, grants to certain sub groups of non executive employees totaling 187 and 1,563 individuals, respectively, continued to change after the previously identified grant dates. Accordingly, we recalculated the compensation expense associated with those grants based on the date on which the grants to any particular list of employees became final. The 187 individuals impacted in fiscal year 2002 represented a small portion of the total grants issued and the 1,563 individuals impacted in fiscal year 2003 represented substantially all non executive employees receiving a grant. Beginning in our fiscal year 2004, we changed our process for determining option awards to non executive employees. In that year, the Company began to use a job function classification, rather than a salary based formula, to determine these awards. Beginning in our fiscal year 2004, management, acting with the Compensation Committees approval, retained limited discretion to adjust awards within groups of employees. Following these discretionary adjustments (as well as adjustments to reflect administrative changes), management compiled the various lists of employees into a final list and distributed the options. In recognition of this change in process, we have adjusted our methodology for determining the date the list associated with grants to non officer employees issued in those years was final. Accordingly, in determining the measurement date, we have treated lists of grants to 2,180 and 2,262 non executive employees issued in our fiscal years 2004 and 2005, respectively, as not final until they were compiled by management as final, regardless of whether any particular list, in fact, changed. Due to the methodology used in fiscal years 2002 through 2005, changes to the measurement date of a few employees could cause the measurement date for a large number of employees to change. As a result of the aforementioned, our historical financial statements have been restated to increase stock based compensation expense by a total of $37.3 million recognized over the applicable vesting periods through fiscal year 2005. The adjustments have been recorded to selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. (b) Subsequent change to a finalized grant. After the Company decided on October 12, 2000 to grant stock options to approximately 1,510 non executive employees, representing substantially all non executive employees receiving a grant, the price of the Companys stock declined. Rather than issue underwater options, the Company decided on December 22, 2000 to issue new grants. We did not do that with respect to officer grants approved at the same time. We have decided that we should have characterized this as a cancellation and re pricing of the October 12, 2000 grant for non executive employees. Under APB 25, as interpreted by FASB Interpretation No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation (an interpretation of 49 Table of Contents APB Opinion No. 25), and other related interpretations, such a repricing requires variable accounting for the awards until that award is exercised, is forfeited, or expires unexercised. This was not identified in our original financial reporting processes and, therefore, it was not properly accounted for in the financial statements as a variable award, which requires re measurement at each interim reporting period. As a result, our historical financial statements have been restated to increase stock based compensation expense by a total of $13.2 million which has been recognized beginning as of December 22, 2000, the date of modification, and over each interim reporting period thereafter through fiscal year 2005. The adjustments have been recorded to selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. (c) Stock option grants to a director in his capacity as a consultant. We have determined that from fiscal years 1998 through 2002, we did not properly account for stock option awards that were granted to a non employee director who we retained to provide consulting services. These awards were not properly accounted for in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force No. 96 18, Accounting for Equity Instruments That Are Issued to Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services, and related interpretations. As a result, our historical financial statements have been restated to increase stock based compensation expense by a total of $3.7 million which has been recognized through fiscal year 2005. The adjustments have been recorded to selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Income tax benefit We evaluated the impact of the restatements on our global tax provision. We file tax returns in multiple tax jurisdictions around the world. In certain jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, the United States and the United Kingdom, we are able to claim a tax deduction relative to stock options. In those jurisdictions, where a tax deduction is claimed, we have recorded deferred tax benefits, totaling $13.1 million at August 31, 2005, to reflect future tax deductions to the extent that we believe such assets to be recoverable. Because virtually all holders of stock options for which remeasurement was required were not involved in or aware of the circumstances that lead to the remeasurement, we have taken and intend to take certain actions to deal with the adverse tax consequences that may be incurred by the holders of stock options for which remeasurement was required, including amending certain stock option agreements. Such adverse tax consequences relate to the portions of stock options for which remeasurement was required that vest after December 31, 2004 (Section 409A Affected Options) and subject the option holder to a penalty tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A (Section 409A) (and, as applicable, similar penalty taxes under California and other state tax laws). Under Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, these option amendments had to be completed by December 31, 2006 for anyone who was an executive officer when he or she received Section 409A Affected Options. The amendments for non executive officers cannot be offered until after this Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006 is filed and such amendments need to be completed by December 31, 2007. We are investigating the alternatives available to amend these affected options. We intend to compensate certain option holders who have already exercised Section 409A Affected Options for the penalties they incur under Section 409A (and, as applicable, similar state tax laws). We have notified the IRS of our intent to participate in the IRS Compliance Resolution Program (program) for employees other than corporate insiders for additional 2006 taxes arising under Section 409A due to the exercise of stock rights. This program allows us to calculate and remit to the IRS, on behalf of the affected employees, the penalty for calendar year 2006 due to the application of Section 409A to certain options exercised during 2006. Our current estimate for such a penalty is expected to be less than $4.0 million and is expected to be recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. There is one executive officer impacted by the 2006 exercise of Section 409A Affected Options. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has approved the payment of a bonus of approximately $150.0 thousand to cover the penalty for this executive officer as he is prohibited from participation in the program. This bonus was approved as the executive officer was not an officer at the time of the grant and was not involved or aware of the options impact. 50 Table of Contents Two of our executive option holders were subject to the December 31, 2006 deadline described above. Accordingly, in December 2006, we offered to amend the Section 409A Affected Options held by the executive officers to increase the exercise price so that these options will not subject the option holder to a penalty tax under Section 409A. Both individuals accepted our offer. In addition, we have agreed to pay each of the individuals a cash bonus of $2.0 thousand each in fiscal year 2007 equal to the aggregate increase in the exercise prices for the amended options. We plan to take remedial actions with respect to the outstanding Section 409A Affected Options granted to non officers and are currently assessing this transaction. Overview We are one of the leading providers of worldwide electronic manufacturing services and solutions. We provide comprehensive electronics design, production, product management and after market services to companies in the aerospace, automotive, computing, consumer, defense, industrial, instrumentation, medical, networking, peripherals, storage and telecommunications industries. The historical growth of the overall industry over most of the 1990s was driven by the increasing number of companies who chose to outsource their manufacturing requirements. In mid 2001, the industrys revenue declined as a result of significant cut backs in customer production requirements, which was consistent with the overall global economic downturn at that time. Industry revenues generally began to stabilize in 2003 and companies continue to turn to outsourcing versus internal manufacturing. We anticipate that this industry outsourcing trend will continue during the next several years. We derive revenue principally from the product sales of electronic equipment built to customer specifications. We recognize revenue, net of estimated product return costs, generally when goods are shipped, title and risk of ownership have passed, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and recoverability is reasonably assured. The volume and timing of orders placed by our customers vary due to several factors, including: variation in demand for our customers products; our customers attempts to manage their inventory; electronic design changes; changes in our customers manufacturing strategies; and acquisitions of or consolidations among our customers. Demand for our customers products depends on, among other things, product life cycles, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. Our cost of revenue includes the cost of electronic components and other materials that comprise the products we manufacture; the cost of labor and manufacturing overhead; and adjustments for excess and obsolete inventory. As a provider of turnkey manufacturing services, we are responsible for procuring components and other materials. This requires us to commit significant working capital to our operations and to manage the purchasing, receiving, inspection and stocking of materials. Although we bear the risk of fluctuations in the cost of materials and excess scrap, we periodically negotiate cost of materials adjustments with our customers. Net revenue from each product that we manufacture consists of an element based on the costs of materials in that product and an element based on the labor and manufacturing overhead costs allocated to that product. We refer to the portion of the sales price of a product that is based on materials costs as material based revenue, and to the portion of the sales price of a product that is based on labor and manufacturing overhead costs as manufacturing based revenue. Our gross margin for any product depends on the mix between the cost of materials in the product and the cost of labor and manufacturing overhead allocated to the product. We typically realize higher gross margins on manufacturing based revenue than we do on materials based revenue. As we gain experience in manufacturing a product, we usually achieve increased efficiencies, which result in lower labor and manufacturing overhead costs for that product. Our operating results are impacted by the level of capacity utilization of manufacturing facilities; indirect labor costs; and selling, general and administrative expenses. Operating income margins have generally improved during periods of high production volume and high capacity utilization. During periods of low production volume, we generally have idle capacity and reduced operating income margins. As our capacity has grown during recent years through the construction of new greenfield facilities, the expansion of existing facilities and our acquisition of additional facilities, our selling, general and administrative expenses have increased to support this growth. 51 Table of Contents We have consistently utilized advanced circuit design, production design and manufacturing technologies to meet the needs of our customers. To support this effort, our engineering staff focuses on developing and refining design and manufacturing technologies to meet specific needs of specific customers. Most of the expenses associated with these customer specific efforts are reflected in our cost of revenue. In addition, our engineers engage in R&D of new technologies that apply generally to our operations. The expenses of these R&D activities are reflected in the Research and Development line item in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings. An important element of our strategy is the expansion of our global production facilities. The majority of our revenue and materials costs worldwide are denominated in U.S. dollars, while our labor and utility costs in plants outside the United States are denominated in local currencies. We economically hedge these local currency costs, based on our evaluation of the potential exposure as compared to the cost of the hedge, through the purchase of foreign exchange contracts. Changes in the fair market value of such hedging instruments are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. See Risk Factors We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue. A significant reduction in sales to any of our large customers or a customer exerting significant pricing and margin pressures on us would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the past, some of our customers have terminated their manufacturing arrangements with us or have significantly reduced or delayed the volume of manufacturing services ordered from us. There can be no assurance that present or future customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of manufacturing services ordered from us. Any such termination of a manufacturing relationship or change, reduction or delay in orders could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See Risk Factors Because we depend on a limited number of customers, a reduction in sales to any one of our customers could cause a significant decline in our revenue and Note 14 Concentration of Risk and Segment Data to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summary of Results Net revenue for fiscal year 2006 increased approximately 36.4% to $10.3 billion compared to $7.5 billion for fiscal year 2005. Our sales levels during fiscal year 2006 improved across most industry sectors, demonstrating our continued trend of industry sector and customer diversification. The increase in our net revenue base year over year primarily represents stronger market share with our existing programs; and organic growth from new and existing customers as vertical companies continue to convert to an outsourcing model. Additionally, we continue to enhance our business model by adding services in the areas of collaborative design, system integration, order fulfillment and after market. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan to better align our manufacturing capacity in certain higher cost geographies and to properly size our manufacturing sites with perceived current market conditions. Based on the analysis completed to date, we currently expect to recognize approximately $200.0 to $250.0 million in restructuring and impairment charges as a result of the approved restructuring plan. The restructuring charges include pre tax employee severance and benefit costs, contract termination costs and other related restructuring costs. The impairment charges include pre tax fixed asset impairment costs, as well as valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets. We recognized a significant portion of these costs in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and currently expect to recognize the remaining portion over the course of fiscal year 2007 and 2008. The exact timing of the remaining estimated range of restructuring and impairment costs, as well as the remaining estimated cost ranges by category type is subject to revision. This information will be subject to the finalization of the timetables for the transitional functions, consultation with employees and their representatives, as well as the statutory severance requirements of the particular legal jurisdictions impacted. The amount and timing of the actual charges may vary due to a variety of factors. For further discussion of this restructuring program and the restructuring and impairment costs recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of 52 Table of Contents Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Restructuring and Impairment Charges and Note 11 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See also Risk Factors We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal year ended August 31, certain key operating results and other financial information (in thousands, except per share data). Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 (restated) (restated) Net revenue $ 10,265,447 $ 7,524,386 $ 6,252,897 Gross profit $ 764,900 $ 628,506 $ 538,380 Operating income $ 241,807 $ 251,967 $ 221,771 Net income $ 164,518 $ 203,875 $ 173,730 Basic earnings per share $ 0.79 $ 1.01 $ 0.87 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.77 $ 0.98 $ 0.85 Key Performance Indicators Management regularly reviews financial and non financial performance indicators to assess the Companys operating results. The following table sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, certain of managements key financial performance indicators. Three Months Ended August 31, 2006 May 31, 2006 February 28, 2006 November 30, 2005 Sales cycle 14 days 19 days 19 days 15 days Inventory turns 8 turns 8 turns 9 turns 9 turns Days in accounts receivable 39 days 40 days 42 days 41 days Days in inventory 47 days 46 days 42 days 38 days Days in accounts payable 72 days 67 days 65 days 64 days Three Months Ended August 31, 2005 May 31, 2005 February 28, 2005 November 30, 2004 Sales cycle 17 days 20 days 23 days 28 days Inventory turns 9 turns 10 turns 9 turns 9 turns Days in accounts receivable 42 days 42 days 42 days 52 days Days in inventory 39 days 37 days 39 days 40 days Days in accounts payable 64 days 59 days 58 days 64 days The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators. Days in accounts receivable decreased one day to 39 days during the three months ended August 31, 2006 from the prior sequential quarter, primarily due to timing of sales and cash collection efforts during the quarter. During the three months ended May 31, 2006, days in accounts receivable decreased two days to 40 days as a result of timing of sales and cash collection efforts during the quarter. During the three months ended February 28, 2006, days in accounts receivable increased one day to 42 days as a result of the timing of sales during the quarter and there being fewer cash collection days in the month of February. Days in accounts receivable improved one day to 41 days during the three months ended November 30, 2005 primarily due to the sale of receivables to an unrelated third party under our accounts receivable securitization program. See Note 3 Accounts Receivable Securitization to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this program. 53 Table of Contents Days in inventory increased one day during the three months ended August 31, 2006 from the prior sequential quarter, with inventory turns consistent at eight turns. The one day increase in days in inventory during the fourth fiscal quarter was primarily a result of increased inventory from our partnering with an existing customer in a new initiative to improve the customers inventory planning process whereby we assume greater supply chain management responsibilities (new lean manufacturing process) and increased purchasing to meet forecasted demand in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, which includes the seasonal peak for the consumer and automotive industry sectors. During the three months ended May 31, 2006, days in inventory increased four days to 46 days, while inventory turns decreased one turn to eight turns. The increase in days in inventory was primarily a result of approximately $100.0 million of incremental inventory associated with an existing customers new lean manufacturing process and our acquisition of Celetronix International, Ltd. (Celetronix); and the pre positioning of inventory in anticipation of forecasted fourth fiscal quarter demand. During the three months ended February 28, 2006, days in inventory increased four days to 42 days in anticipation of forecasted March demand, while inventory turns remained consistent at nine turns. Days in inventory decreased one day to 38 days as a result of increased sales levels during the three months ended November 30, 2005, while inventory turns remained consistent at nine turns. Days in accounts payable increased five days during the three months ended August 31, 2006 from the prior sequential quarter primarily as a result of increased inventory levels and continued emphasis on extending payment terms with our vendors. During the three months ended May 31, 2006, days in accounts payable increased two days to 67 days as a result of timing of purchases during the quarter and continued emphasis on cash management. During the three months ended February 28, 2006, days in accounts payable increased one day to 65 days as a result of timing of purchases during the quarter. During the three months ended November 20, 2005, days in accounts payable remained consistent with the prior sequential quarter at 64 days. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect our reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various other factors and circumstances. Management believes that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may vary from these estimates and assumptions under different future circumstances. We have identified the following critical accounting policies that affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion of our significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from the product sales of electronic equipment built to customer specifications. We also derive revenue to a lesser extent from after market services, design services and excess inventory sales. Revenue from product sales and excess inventory sales is generally recognized, net of estimated product return costs, when goods are shipped; title and risk of ownership have passed; the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and recoverability is reasonably assured. Service related revenue is recognized upon completion of the services. We assume no significant obligations after product shipment. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts related to receivables not expected to be collected from our customers. This allowance is based on managements assessment of specific customer balances, considering the age of receivables and financial stability of the customer. If there is an adverse change in the financial condition of our customers, or if actual defaults are higher than provided for, an addition to the allowance may be necessary. 54 Table of Contents Inventory Valuation We purchase inventory based on forecasted demand and record inventory at the lower of cost or market. Management regularly assesses inventory valuation based on current and forecasted usage and other lower of cost or market considerations. If actual market conditions or our customers product demands are less favorable than those projected, additional valuation adjustments may be necessary. Long Lived Assets We review property, plant and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of property, plant and equipment is measured by comparing its carrying value to the projected cash flows the property, plant and equipment are expected to generate. If the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset over its respective fair value. The impairment analysis is based on significant assumptions of future results made by management, including revenue and cash flow projections. Circumstances that may lead to impairment of property, plant and equipment include unforeseen decreases in future performance or industry demand and the restructuring of our operations resulting from a change in our business strategy. For further discussion of our current restructuring program, refer to Note 11 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Restructuring and Impairment Charges. We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill, principally based on third party valuations, in connection with business acquisitions. Estimated useful lives of amortizable intangible assets are determined by management based on an assessment of the period over which the asset is expected to contribute to future cash flows. The allocation of amortizable intangible assets impacts the amounts allocable to goodwill. In accordance with SFAS 142, we are required to perform a goodwill impairment test at least on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We completed the annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and determined that no impairment existed as of the date of the impairment test. The impairment test is performed at the reporting unit level, which we have determined to be consistent with our operating segments as defined in Note 14 Concentration of Risk and Segment Data to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The impairment analysis is based on assumptions of future results made by management, including revenue and cash flow projections at the reporting unit level. Circumstances that may lead to impairment of goodwill or intangible assets include unforeseen decreases in future performance or industry demand, and the restructuring of our operations resulting from a change in our business strategy. For further information on our intangible assets, including goodwill, refer to Note 7 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring and Impairment Charges We have recognized restructuring and impairment charges related to reductions in workforce, re sizing and closure of facilities, and the transition of production from certain facilities into other new and existing facilities. These charges were recorded pursuant to formal plans developed and approved by management. The recognition of restructuring and impairment charges requires that we make certain judgments and estimates regarding the nature, timing and amount of costs associated with these plans. The estimates of future liabilities may change, requiring additional restructuring and impairment charges or the reduction of liabilities already recorded. At the end of each reporting period, we evaluate the remaining accrued balances to ensure that no excess accruals are retained and the utilization of the provisions are for their intended purpose in accordance with the restructuring programs. For further discussion of our restructuring programs, refer to Note 11 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Restructuring and Impairment Charges. 55 Table of Contents Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits We have pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities, which are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial valuations require management to make certain judgments and estimates of discount rates and return on plan assets. We evaluate these assumptions on a regular basis taking into consideration current market conditions and historical market data. The discount rate is used to state expected future cash flows at a present value on the measurement date. This rate represents the market rate for high quality fixed income investments. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. When considering the expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets, we take into account current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on plan assets. Other assumptions include demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover. For further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, refer to Note 10 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes We estimate our income tax provision in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, a process that includes estimating exposures related to examinations by taxing authorities. We must also make judgments regarding the ability to realize the deferred tax assets. The carrying value of our net deferred tax assets is based on our belief that it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions to realize these deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance has been established for deferred tax assets that we do not believe meet the more likely than not criteria established by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Our judgments regarding future taxable income may change due to changes in market conditions, changes in tax laws or other factors. If our assumptions and consequently our estimates change in the future, the valuation allowances we have established may be increased or decreased, resulting in a respective increase or decrease in either income tax expense or goodwill. For further discussion related to our income taxes, refer to Note 5 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock Based Compensation In accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123R, Share Based Payment, (SFAS 123R) and the Security and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107), we began recognizing stock based compensation expense in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings on September 1, 2005 based on the fair value of our stock based awards. The fair value of options granted prior to September 1, 2005 were valued using the Black Scholes model while the stock appreciation rights granted after this date were valued using a lattice valuation model. Option pricing models require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the option or stock appreciation right and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Judgment is also required in estimating the number of stock awards that are expected to vest as a result of satisfaction of time based vesting schedules or the achievement of certain performance conditions. If actual results or future changes in estimates differ significantly from our current estimates, stock based compensation could increase or decrease. For further discussion of our stock based compensation, refer to Note 13 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As described in Note 2 Stock Option Litigation and Restatements to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are restating prior fiscal periods within this Form 10 K principally to reflect additional non cash stock based compensation expense relating to adjustments arising from the determinations of a Board appointed independent Special Committee, as well as our internal review relating to our historical financial statements. See Risk Factors We are involved in reviews of our historical stock option grant practices. 56 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain operating data as a percentage of net revenue. The information presented in the following table has been adjusted to reflect the restatement of the Companys financial results which is more fully described in Note 2 Stock Option Litigation and Restatements to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 (restated) (restated) Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 92.5 91.7 91.4 Gross profit 7.5 8.3 8.6 Selling, general and administrative 3.7 4.2 4.1 Research and development 0.4 0.3 0.2 Amortization of intangibles 0.2 0.5 0.7 Acquisition related charges Restructuring and impairment charges 0.8 Operating income 2.4 3.3 3.6 Other expense 0.1 0.1 Interest income (0.2 ) (0.2 ) (0.1 ) Interest expense 0.3 0.3 0.3 Income before income taxes 2.2 3.2 3.3 Income tax expense 0.6 0.5 0.5 Net income 1.6 % 2.7 % 2.8 % Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2006 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2005 Net Revenue. Our net revenue increased 36.4% to $10.3 billion for fiscal year 2006, up from $7.5 billion in fiscal year 2005. The increase was due to increased sales levels across most industry sectors. Specific increases include a 68% increase in the sale of consumer products; a 51% increase in the sale of instrumentation and medical products; a 28% increase in the sale of computing and storage products; a 16% increase in the sale of networking products; and a 27% increase in the sale of peripheral products. The level of sales of automotive products and telecommunications products remained consistent with the prior year. The increased sales levels were due to the addition of new customers and organic growth in these industry sectors. The increase in the consumer industry sector was primarily attributable to new and existing program growth resulting from our product diversification efforts within the sector. The increase in the instrumentation and medical industry sector was primarily attributable to increased sales levels as more vertical companies are electing to outsource their production in these areas. 57 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, revenue by industry sector expressed as a percentage of net revenue. The distribution of revenue across our industry sectors has fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, as a result of numerous factors, including but not limited to the following: increased business from new and existing customers; fluctuations in customer demand; seasonality, especially in the automotive and consumer industry sectors; and increased growth in the automotive, consumer, and instrumentation and medical products industry sectors as more vertical companies are electing to outsource their production in these areas. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 Automotive 5 % 7 % 8 % Computing and storage 12 % 12 % 13 % Consumer 36 % 29 % 25 % Instrumentation and medical 17 % 16 % 12 % Networking 13 % 15 % 20 % Peripherals 7 % 8 % 6 % Telecommunications 6 % 9 % 11 % Other 4 % 4 % 5 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Foreign source revenue represented 82.3% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2006 and 83.8% of net revenue for fiscal year 2005. We currently expect our foreign source revenue to increase as a percentage of net revenue due to expansion in China, Eastern Europe and India. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased to 7.5% of net revenue in fiscal year 2006 from 8.3% in fiscal year 2005. The percentage decrease from the prior fiscal year was primarily due to a higher portion of materials based revenue (driven in part by growth in the consumer industry sector). In addition, certain higher than anticipated expenses were incurred during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2006. These included delays in our ramp up of our electromechanical tooling operations due to resolvable technical issues, management process software and a change in a customers timing needs for tools, which resulted in excess costs; certain material and labor costs associated with the higher than anticipated rate of needed repair on a new program for an existing customer in our after market services operations in the Americas region; and various operational execution issues in one of our U.S. operations, some of which was associated with strong demand and the commencement of new programs. In absolute dollars, gross profit for fiscal year 2006 increased $136.4 million versus fiscal year 2005 due to the increased revenue base. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $382.2 million (3.7% of net revenue) from $314.3 million (4.2% of net revenue) in fiscal year 2005. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to the acquisitions of Varian Electronics Manufacturing (VEM) in March 2005 and Celetronix in March 2006; the recognition of stock based compensation expense resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123R; additional resources to support our continued growth; and incremental legal and professional fees incurred due to the review of our historical stock option practices. See Note 2 Stock Option Litigation and Restatements to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the stock option review. R&D. R&D expenses in fiscal year 2006 increased to $35.0 million (0.4% of net revenue) from $22.5 million (0.3% of net revenue) in fiscal year 2005. The increase is attributed to growth in our product development activities related to new reference and product designs, including networking and server products, cell phone products, wireless and broadband access products, consumer products, and storage products. We also continued efforts in the design of circuit board assembly; mechanical design and the related production design process; and the development of new advanced manufacturing technologies. 58 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangibles. We recorded $24.3 million of amortization of intangibles in fiscal year 2006 as compared to $39.8 million in fiscal year 2005. The decrease was attributable to intangible assets that became fully amortized in fiscal year 2005 and fiscal year 2006, offset by amortization of intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions consummated in fiscal year 2005 and 2006. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Acquisitions and Expansion below, Note 1(f) Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Note 7 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and Note 8 Business Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring and Impairment Charges. As mentioned in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary of Results, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we initiated a restructuring program to realign our manufacturing capacity in certain higher cost geographies and to properly size our manufacturing sites with perceived current market conditions. This current restructuring program resulted in restructuring and impairment charges of $81.9 million for fiscal year 2006 consisting of employee severance and benefit costs of approximately $67.4 million, costs related to lease commitments of approximately $10.1 million, fixed asset impairments of approximately $3.6 million and other restructuring costs of approximately $0.8 million, primarily related to the repayment of government provided subsidies that resulted from the reduction in force in certain locations. These restructuring and impairment charges included cash costs totaling $78.6 million, of which $1.5 million was paid in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006. The cash costs consist of employee severance and benefits costs of approximately $67.6 million, costs related to lease commitments of approximately $10.2 million and other restructuring costs of $0.8 million. Non cash costs of approximately $3.3 million primarily represent fixed asset impairment charges related to our restructuring activities. At August 31, 2006, liabilities of approximately $59.9 million and $13.5 million related to these restructurings activities are expected to be paid out in fiscal years 2007 and 2008, respectively. The remaining liability of $3.7 million for the charge related to a certain lease commitment is expected to be paid out during fiscal years 2009 through 2011. We expect to avoid annual costs of approximately $55.9 million that would otherwise have been incurred if the restructuring activities had not been completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. The avoided costs consist of a reduction in employee related expenses of approximately $49.9 million, a reduction in depreciation expense associated with impaired fixed assets of approximately $1.1 million, and a reduction in rent expense associated with leased buildings that have been vacated of approximately $4.9 million. The majority of these annual cost savings will be reflected in cost of revenue, with a small portion being reflected in selling, general and administrative expense. These annual costs savings are expected to be offset by decreased revenues associated with certain products that are approaching the end of life stage; decreased revenues as a result of shifting production to plants located in lower cost regions where competitive environmental pressures require that we pass those cost savings onto our customers; and incremental employee related costs to be incurred by those lower cost plants that will need to increase employee headcount in order to meet the requirements of the inherited production. After considering these cost savings offsets, we currently expect to realize net annual cost savings of approximately $8.4 million by the end of fiscal year 2007. For further discussion of the current restructuring program, see Overview Summary of Results above, and Note 11 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we made the final cash payment related to our historical restructuring program. A liability balance of approximately $308.0 thousand remained after remittance of the final payment. This remaining liability was recorded as a reduction of the fiscal year 2006 restructuring charge. There were no restructuring and impairment charges incurred during fiscal year 2005. For further discussion of the historical restructuring program, see Note 11 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Expense. We recorded other expense on the sale of accounts receivable under our securitization program totaling $11.9 million and $4.1 million for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in other expense was primarily due to an increase in the amount of receivables sold 59 Table of Contents under the program during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006. Subsequent to January 2005, several amendments increased the net cash proceeds available at any one time under the program from $120.0 million to $250.0 million. For further discussion of our accounts receivable securitization program, see Note 3 Accounts Receivable Securitization to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Income. Interest income increased to $18.7 million in fiscal year 2006 from $13.8 million in fiscal year 2005. The increase was primarily due to higher interest yields on higher levels of operating cash, cash deposits and cash equivalents. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased to $23.5 million in fiscal year 2006 from $20.7 million in fiscal year 2005. The increase was primarily a result of higher borrowing levels under our unsecured revolving credit facility and under other revolving credit facilities and debt agreements in place at a subsidiary level. Additionally, we incurred higher interest on our fixed 5.785% senior notes issued in July of 2003 due to the termination of the interest rate swap agreement in June 2005. The interest rate swap effectively converted the fixed interest rate of the senior notes to a variable rate during the nine months ended May 31, 2005, which was more favorable than the fixed rate of interest incurred subsequent to May 31, 2005. See Note 9 Notes Payable, Long Term Debt and Long Term Lease Obligations to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of 26.9% for fiscal year 2006, as compared to an effective tax rate of 15.4% for fiscal year 2005. The increase is primarily a result of the tax expense associated with recording valuation allowances of $37.1 million on net deferred tax assets as part of our restructuring plan. For further discussion of the restructuring plan, see Note 11 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This increase was partially offset by the tax benefit associated with stock based compensation expense realized in accordance with SFAS 123R, which we adopted in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The tax rate is predominantly a function of the mix of tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Our international operations have historically been taxed at a lower rate than in the United States, primarily due to tax incentives, including tax holidays, granted to our sites in Brazil, China, Hungary, India, Malaysia and Poland that expire at various dates through 2017. Such tax holidays are subject to conditions with which we expect to continue to comply. See Note 5 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In October 2004, the President signed into law the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act). The Act created a temporary incentive for U.S. multinational companies to repatriate accumulated foreign earnings by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain eligible dividends. The deduction was subject to a number of limitations and requirements, including a formal plan for domestic reinvestment of the dividends. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position No. 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (FSP 109 2). FSP 109 2 provided guidance under SFAS 109 with respect to recording the potential impact of the repatriation provisions of the Act on enterprises income tax expense and deferred tax liability. Under FSP 109 2, we had until August 31, 2006 to complete the evaluation of the effect of the Act on our plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS 109. Based upon the completed evaluation, the Company will continue its plan to indefinitely reinvest income from all of its foreign subsidiaries and will not repatriate accumulated foreign earnings to take advantage of the 85% dividends received deduction created by the Act. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2004 Net Revenue. Our net revenue increased 20.3% to $7.5 billion for fiscal year 2005, up from $6.3 billion in fiscal year 2004. The increase was due to increased sales levels across most industry sectors. Specific increases include a 40% increase in the sale of consumer products; a 59% increase in the sale of instrumentation and medical products; a 40% increase in the sale of peripheral products; a 19% increase in the sale of computing and storage products; and a 9% increase in the sale of automotive products. The increased sales levels were due to the 60 Table of Contents addition of new customers, acquisitions and organic growth in these industry sectors. The increase in the consumer industry sector was primarily attributable to new and existing program growth resulting from our product diversification efforts within the sector. The increase in the instrumentation and medical industry sector was primarily attributable to increased sales levels as more vertical companies are electing to outsource their production in these areas, and the acquisition of VEM. These increases were offset by an 8% decrease in the sale of telecommunications products and an 8% decrease in the sale of networking products. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, revenue by industry sector expressed as a percentage of net revenue. The distribution of revenue across our industry sectors has fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, as a result of numerous factors, including but not limited to the following: increased business from new and existing customers; fluctuations in customer demand; seasonality, especially in the automotive and consumer industry sectors; and increased growth in the automotive, consumer, and instrumentation and medical products industry sectors as more vertical companies are electing to outsource their production in these areas. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2005 2004 2003 Automotive 7 % 8 % 9 % Computing and storage 12 % 13 % 15 % Consumer 29 % 25 % 20 % Instrumentation and medical 16 % 12 % 7 % Networking 15 % 20 % 23 % Peripherals 8 % 6 % 8 % Telecommunications 9 % 11 % 14 % Other 4 % 5 % 4 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Foreign source revenue represented 83.8% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2005 and 84.6% of net revenue for fiscal year 2004. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased to 8.3% of net revenue in fiscal year 2005 from 8.6% in fiscal year 2004. The percentage decrease from the prior fiscal year was primarily due to a higher portion of materials based revenue (driven in part by growth in the consumer industry sector), combined with the continued shift of production to lower cost regions. In absolute dollars, gross profit for fiscal year 2005 increased $90.1 million versus fiscal year 2004 due to the increased revenue base. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $314.3 million (4.2% of net revenue) in fiscal year 2005 from $257.7 million (4.1% of net revenue) in fiscal year 2004. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to additional personnel costs related to the realignment of our organizational structure into three regional operating segments, costs related to compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the acquisition of VEM in March 2005 and incremental stock based compensation expense recognized on stock based awards. R&D. R&D expenses in fiscal year 2005 increased to $22.5 million (0.3% of net revenue) from $13.8 million (0.2% of net revenue) in fiscal year 2004. The increase is attributed to growth in our product development activities related to new reference designs, including networking and server products, cell phone products, wireless and broadband access products, consumer products, and storage products. We also continued efforts in the design of circuit board assembly; mechanical design and the related production design process; and the development of new advanced manufacturing technologies. Amortization of Intangibles. We recorded $39.8 million of amortization of intangibles in fiscal year 2005 as compared to $43.7 million in fiscal year 2004. The decrease was attributable to intangible assets that became 61 Table of Contents fully amortized in fiscal year 2005, offset by amortization of intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions consummated in fiscal year 2005. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Acquisitions and Expansion below, Note 1(f) Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Note 7 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and Note 8 Business Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Acquisition related Charges. During fiscal year 2005, we did not incur acquisition related charges. During fiscal year 2004, we incurred $1.3 million in acquisition related charges in connection with the acquisitions of certain operations of Philips and NEC. Restructuring and Impairment Charges. There were no restructuring and impairment charges incurred during fiscal years 2005 and 2004. At August 31, 2005, liabilities related to restructuring activities carried out prior to August 31, 2003 totaled approximately $4.9 million for lease commitment costs, which was expected to be paid out within the next twelve months. Other Expense. We recorded other expense on the sale of accounts receivable under our securitization program totaling $4.1 million and $0.8 million for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The securitization program was initiated in February 2004; therefore fiscal year 2004 includes only two full quarters of expense, while fiscal year 2005 includes four quarters of expense. Additionally, subsequent to January 2005, several amendments increased the net cash proceeds available at any one time under the program from $120.0 million to $175.0 million at August 31, 2005. For further discussion of our securitization program, see Note 3 Accounts Receivable Securitization to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During fiscal year 2004, we also recorded a $6.4 million loss on the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs, which resulted from the redemption of our convertible subordinated notes in May 2004. See Note 9 Notes Payable, Long Term Debt and Long Term Lease Obligations to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the redemption. Interest Income. Interest income increased to $13.8 million in fiscal year 2005 from $7.2 million in fiscal year 2004. The increase was primarily due to higher interest yields on cash deposits and short term investments, and interest income recorded in relation to the note receivable from an unrelated third party. For further discussion of the note receivable, see Note 8 Business Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased to $20.7 million in fiscal year 2005, from $18.5 million in fiscal year 2004. The increase was primarily a result of higher base interest rates related to our $300.0 million 5.875% senior notes issued in July of 2003 (the Senior Notes), as we had an interest rate swap in place that effectively converted the fixed interest rate of the Senior Notes to a variable rate through the interest rate swap termination date of June 3, 2005. The increase was also a result of temporary borrowings under the revolving credit facility and debt agreements entered into during the third quarter of fiscal year 2005 in connection with the VEM acquisition. The increase for fiscal year 2005 was partially offset by the redemption of our Convertible Notes in May 2004. See Note 9 Notes Payable, Long Term Debt and Long Term Lease Obligations to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of 15.4% for fiscal year 2005, as compared to an effective tax rate of 14.5% for fiscal year 2004. The tax rate is predominantly a function of the mix of tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Our international operations have historically been taxed at a lower rate than in the United States, primarily due to tax incentives, including tax holidays, granted to our sites in Brazil, China, Hungary, India, Malaysia and Poland that expire at various dates through 2017 as of August 31, 2005. See Note 5 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 62 Table of Contents Quarterly Results (Unaudited) a. Quarterly financial information The following table sets forth certain unaudited quarterly financial information for the 2006 and 2005 fiscal years. In the opinion of management, this information has been presented on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere, and all necessary adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the unaudited quarterly results when read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. The information presented in the following table has been adjusted to reflect the restatement to our Consolidated Financial Statements which is more fully described in Note 2 Stock Option Litigation and Restatements to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We will not be amending our previously filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, however, we are including in this Form 10 K comparative information reflecting the restatement for the four quarters in the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005. As Previously Reported Fiscal Year 2006 Fiscal Year 2005 Aug. 31, 2006 May 31, 2006 Feb. 28, 2006 Nov. 30, 2005 Aug. 31, 2005 May 31, 2005 Feb. 28, 2005 Nov. 30, 2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Net revenue N/A $ 2,592,464 $ 2,314,962 $ 2,404,407 $ 2,036,590 $ 1,938,415 $ 1,716,006 $ 1,833,375 Cost of revenue N/A 2,404,821 2,130,314 2,208,585 1,865,476 1,776,333 1,575,555 1,678,517 Gross profit N/A 187,643 184,648 195,822 171,114 162,082 140,451 154,858 Selling, general and administrative (2) N/A 93,536 87,063 94,542 72,952 71,688 66,137 68,089 Research and development N/A 9,578 8,577 6,601 4,746 5,667 6,175 5,919 Amortization of intangibles N/A 7,273 5,662 5,856 7,360 11,491 10,365 10,545 Acquisition related charges N/A Restructuring and impairment charges N/A Operating income N/A 77,256 83,346 88,823 86,056 73,236 57,774 70,305 Other expense N/A 3,505 2,860 2,034 1,603 1,116 765 622 Interest income N/A (4,977 ) (5,643 ) (4,985 ) (4,767 ) (4,214 ) (2,928 ) (1,865 ) Interest expense N/A 5,818 5,279 4,258 5,130 5,856 4,917 4,764 Income before income taxes N/A 72,910 80,850 87,516 84,090 70,478 55,020 66,784 Income tax expense (2) N/A 8,684 11,829 10,626 13,558 11,125 8,973 10,869 Net income N/A $ 64,226 $ 69,021 $ 76,890 $ 70,532 $ 59,353 $ 46,047 $ 55,915 Earnings per share: N/A Basic N/A $ 0.31 $ 0.33 $ 0.38 $ 0.35 $ 0.29 $ 0.23 $ 0.28 Diluted N/A $ 0.30 $ 0.32 $ 0.37 $ 0.34 $ 0.29 $ 0.22 $ 0.27 Common shares used in the calculations of earnings per share: Basic N/A 210,441 207,622 204,699 203,941 202,666 201,930 201,467 Diluted N/A 215,808 214,091 209,760 209,813 207,736 206,459 205,843 63 Table of Contents Adjustments Fiscal Year 2006 Fiscal Year 2005 Aug. 31, 2006 May 31, 2006 Feb. 28, 2006 Nov. 30, 2005 Aug. 31, 2005 May 31, 2005 Feb. 28, 2005 Nov. 30, 2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Net revenue N/A N/A N/A N/A $ $ $ $ Cost of revenue N/A N/A N/A N/A Gross profit N/A N/A N/A N/A Selling, general and administrative (2) N/A N/A N/A N/A 16,630 6,843 5,515 6,416 Research and development N/A N/A N/A N/A Amortization of intangibles N/A N/A N/A N/A Acquisition related charges N/A N/A N/A N/A Restructuring and impairment charges N/A N/A N/A N/A Operating income N/A N/A N/A N/A (16,630 ) (6,843 ) (5,515 ) (6,416 ) Other expense N/A N/A N/A N/A Interest income N/A N/A N/A N/A Interest expense N/A N/A N/A N/A Income before income taxes N/A N/A N/A N/A (16,630 ) (6,843 ) (5,515 ) (6,416 ) Income tax expense (2) N/A N/A N/A N/A (4,471 ) (904 ) (1,424 ) (633 ) Net income N/A N/A N/A N/A $ (12,159 ) $ (5,939 ) $ (4,091 ) $ (5,783 ) Earnings per share: Basic N/A N/A N/A N/A $ (0.06 ) $ (0.03 ) $ (0.02 ) $ (0.03 ) Diluted N/A N/A N/A N/A $ (0.06 ) $ (0.03 ) $ (0.02 ) $ (0.03 ) Common shares used in the calculations of earnings per share: Basic N/A N/A N/A N/A Diluted N/A 53 67 101 157 (384 ) (554 ) (157 ) 64 Table of Contents Restated Fiscal Year 2006 Fiscal Year 2005 Aug. 31,2006 May 31,2006 Feb. 28,2006 Nov. 30,2005 Aug. 31,2005 May 31,2005 Feb. 28,2005 Nov. 30,2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Net revenue $ 2,953,614 $ 2,592,464 $ 2,314,962 $ 2,404,407 $ 2,036,590 $ 1,938,415 $ 1,716,006 $ 1,833,375 Cost of revenue 2,756,827 2,404,821 2,130,314 2,208,585 1,865,476 1,776,333 1,575,555 1,678,517 Gross profit 196,787 187,643 184,648 195,822 171,114 162,082 140,451 154,858 Selling, general and administrative (2) 107,069 93,536 87,063 94,542 89,582 78,531 71,652 74,505 Research and development 10,219 9,578 8,577 6,601 4,746 5,667 6,175 5,919 Amortization of intangibles 5,532 7,273 5,662 5,856 7,360 11,491 10,365 10,545 Acquisition related charges Restructuring and impairment charges 81,585 Operating income (7,618 ) 77,256 83,346 88,823 69,426 66,393 52,259 63,889 Other expense 3,519 3,505 2,860 2,034 1,603 1,116 765 622 Interest income (3,129 ) (4,977 ) (5,643 ) (4,985 ) (4,767 ) (4,214 ) (2,928 ) (1,865 ) Interest expense 8,152 5,818 5,279 4,258 5,130 5,856 4,917 4,764 Income before income taxes (16,160 ) 72,910 80,850 87,516 67,460 63,635 49,505 60,368 Income tax expense (2) 29,459 8,684 11,829 10,626 9,087 10,221 7,549 10,236 Net income $ (45,619 ) $ 64,226 $ 69,021 $ 76,890 $ 58,373 $ 53,414 $ 41,956 $ 50,132 Earnings per share: Basic $ (0.22 ) $ 0.31 $ 0.33 $ 0.38 $ 0.29 $ 0.26 $ 0.21 $ 0.25 Diluted $ (0.22 )(1) $ 0.30 $ 0.32 $ 0.37 $ 0.28 $ 0.26 $ 0.20 $ 0.24 Common shares used in the calculations of earnings per share: Basic 206,866 210,441 207,622 204,699 203,941 202,666 201,930 201,467 Diluted 209,442 215,861 214,158 209,861 209,970 207,352 205,905 205,686 (1) For the three months ended August 31, 2006, all outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the Company is in a loss position. (2) See the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I of this Form 10 K and Note 2 Stock Option Litigation and Restatements to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of the adjustments that resulted from our and the Special Committees review of stock based compensation expense relating to stock option grants. 65 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain financial information stated as a percentage of net revenue: Fiscal Year 2006 Fiscal Year 2005 Aug. 31, 2006 May 31, 2006 Feb. 28, 2006 Nov. 30, 2005 Aug. 31, 2005 May 31, 2005 Feb. 28, 2005 Nov. 30, 2004 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated) Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 93.3 92.8 92.0 91.9 91.6 91.6 91.8 91.6 Gross profit 6.7 7.2 8.0 8.1 8.4 8.4 8.2 8.4 Selling, general and administrative 3.7 3.6 3.8 3.9 4.4 4.1 4.2 4.0 Research and development 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.3 Amortization of intangibles 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.6 0.6 Acquisition related charges Restructuring and impairment charges 2.8 Operating income (0.3 ) 2.9 3.6 3.7 3.4 3.4 3.0 3.5 Other expense 0.1 0.1 0.2 Interest income (0.1 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) (0.1 ) Interest expense 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 Income before income taxes (0.6 ) 2.8 3.5 3.6 3.3 3.2 2.9 3.3 Income tax expense 1.0 0.3 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.6 Net income (1.6 )% 2.5 % 3.0 % 3.2 % 2.9 % 2.7 % 2.4 % 2.7 % b. Results of operations discussion for quarterly restated periods The following paragraphs discuss our comparative results of operations for the quarterly periods in fiscal year 2006 as compared to fiscal year 2005 which reflect the restatement to our previously filed Forms 10 Q for the quarterly periods in fiscal year 2005. Quarter ended May 31, 2006 compared to quarter ended May 31, 2005 (as restated) Net Revenue. Our net revenue for the three months ended May 31, 2006 increased 33.7% to $2.6 billion, from $1.9 billion for the three months ended May 31, 2005. The increase for the three months ended May 31, 2006 from the same period of the previous fiscal year was due to increased sales levels across most industry sectors. Specific increases include an 86% increase in the sale of consumer products; a 38% increase in the sale of instrumentation and medical products; a 50% increase in the sale of peripheral products; and a 22% increase in the sale of computing and storage products. The increased sales levels were due to the addition of new customers and organic growth in these industry sectors. The increase in the consumer industry sector was primarily attributable to new and existing program growth resulting from our product diversification efforts within this sector. The increase in the instrumentation and medical industry sector was primarily attributable to increased sales levels as more vertical companies in this industry sector are electing to outsource their production. These increases were partially offset by a 5% decrease in the sale of automotive products; a 23% decrease in the sale of networking products; and a 14% decrease in the sale of telecommunications products. The decrease in the networking industry sector was primarily attributable to our partnering with an existing customer in a new lean manufacturing process. The decrease in the telecommunications industry sector was primarily due to the end of production for Lucent Technologies, Inc. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased to 7.2% of net revenue for the three months ended May 31, 2006, from 8.4% of net revenue for the three months ended May 31, 2005. The percentage decrease for the three months 66 Table of Contents ended May 31, 2006 versus the same period of fiscal year 2005 was primarily due to several factors, including a higher portion of materials based revenue (driven in part by growth in the consumer industry sector). In addition, as described above, certain higher than anticipated expenses were incurred during the three months ended May 31, 2006. These included a delay in the ramping of specific electromechanical tooling operations, which resulted in excess costs; certain material and labor costs associated with the ramping of a new program for an existing customer in our repair and warranty operations in the Americas region; and various operational execution issues in one of our U.S. operations, some of which was associated with strong demand and the ramping of new programs. In absolute dollars, gross profit for the three months ended May 31, 2006 increased $25.6 million versus the same period of fiscal 2005 due to the increased revenue base, offset by the specific circumstances mentioned above. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended May 31, 2006 increased to $93.5 million (3.6% of net revenue) compared to $78.5 million (4.1% of net revenue) for the three months ended May 31, 2005. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to the recognition of stock based compensation expense resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123R and the acquisitions of VEM in March 2005 and Celetronix in March 2006. Research and Development. Research and development expenses for the three months ended May 31, 2006 increased to $9.6 million (0.4% of net revenue) from $5.7 million for the three months ended May 31, 2005 (0.3% of net revenue). The absolute dollar increase is attributed to growth in our product development activities related to new reference designs, including networking and server products, cell phone products, wireless and broadband access products, consumer products, and storage products. We also continued efforts in the design of circuit board assembly, mechanical design and the related production design process; and the development of new advanced manufacturing technologies. Amortization of Intangibles. We recorded $7.3 million of amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended May 31, 2006, as compared to $11.5 million for the three months ended May 31, 2005. The decrease is attributed to several acquisition related contractual agreements that were fully amortized prior to the three months ended May 31, 2006. Other Expense. We recorded other expense on the sale of accounts receivable under our securitization program totaling $3.5 million for the three months ended May 31, 2006, which is compared to other expense of $1.1 million for the three months ended May 31, 2005. This increase in other expense was primarily due to an increase in the amount of receivables sold under the program during the three months ended May 31, 2006. Subsequent to January 2005, several amendments increased the net cash proceeds available at any one time under the program from $120.0 million to $250.0 million. Interest Income. Interest income increased to $5.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2006 from $4.2 million for the three months ended May 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to higher interest yields on higher levels of operating cash, cash deposits and cash equivalents. Additionally, interest income was recorded in relation to the Celetronix note receivable from March 31, 2005 through the March 31, 2006 acquisition date. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased slightly to $5.8 million for the three months ended May 31, 2006 from $5.9 million for the three months ended May 31, 2005. The decrease was primarily a result of less borrowing under our revolving credit facility, offset by less capitalized interest, during the three months ended May 31, 2006 compared to May 31, 2005. Income Taxes. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of 11.9% for the three months ended May 31, 2006, as compared to an effective rate of 16.1% for the three months ended May 31, 2005. The decrease is primarily a result of the tax benefit associated with stock based compensation expense realized in accordance with SFAS 123R, which we adopted in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, and lower than expected income 67 Table of Contents levels from our operations in the United States and western Europe. The tax rate is predominantly a function of the mix of tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Our international operations have historically been taxed at a lower rate than in the United States, primarily due to tax incentives, including tax holidays, granted to our sites in Malaysia, China, Brazil, Poland, Hungary, and India that expire at various dates through 2017. Such tax holidays are subject to conditions with which we expect to continue to comply. Quarter ended February 28, 2006 compared to quarter ended February 28, 2005 (as restated) Net Revenue. Our net revenue for the three months ended February 28, 2006 increased 34.9% to $2.3 billion, from $1.7 billion for the three months ended February 28, 2005. The increase for the three months ended February 28, 2006 from the same period of the previous fiscal year was due to increased sales levels across most industry sectors. Specific increases include an 86% increase in the sale of consumer products; a 57% increase in the sale of instrumentation and medical products; a 36% increase in the sale of peripheral products; a 17% increase in the sale of computing and storage products; and a 5% increase in the sale of telecommunications products. The increased sales levels were due to the addition of new customers and organic growth in these industry sectors. The increase in the consumer industry sector was primarily attributable to new and existing program growth resulting from our product diversification efforts within this sector. The increase in the instrumentation and medical industry sector was primarily attributable to increased sales levels as more vertical companies in this industry sector are electing to outsource their production and the acquisition of VEM in March 2005. These increases were partially offset by a 7% decrease in the sale of automotive products and a 1% decrease in the sale of networking products. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased to 8.0% of net revenue for the three months ended February 28, 2006, from 8.2% of net revenue for the three months ended February 28, 2005. The percentage decrease for the three months ended February 28, 2006 versus the same period of fiscal year 2005 was primarily due to a higher portion of materials based revenue (driven in part by growth in the consumer industry sector), combined with the continued shift of production to lower cost regions. In absolute dollars, gross profit for the three months ended February 28, 2006 increased $44.2 million versus the same period of fiscal 2005 due to the increased revenue base. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended February 28, 2006 increased to $87.1 million (3.8% of net revenue) compared to $71.7 million (4.2% of net revenue) for the three months ended February 28, 2005. The absolute dollar increase for the three months ended February 28, 2006 was primarily due to the recognition of stock based compensation expense resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123R and the acquisition of VEM in March 2005. Research and Development. Research and development expenses for the three months ended February 28, 2006 increased to $8.6 million (0.4% of net revenue) from $6.2 million (0.4% of net revenue) for the three months ended February 28, 2005. The absolute dollar increase is attributed to growth in our product development activities related to new reference designs, including networking and server products, cell phone products, wireless and broadband access products, consumer products, and storage products. We also continued efforts in the design of circuit board assembly, mechanical design and the related production design process; and the development of new advanced manufacturing technologies. Amortization of Intangibles. We recorded $5.7 million of amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended February 28, 2006, as compared to $10.4 million for the three months ended February 28, 2005. The decrease is attributed to several acquisition related contractual agreements that were fully amortized prior to the three months ended February 28, 2006. Other Expense. We recorded other expense on the sale of accounts receivable under our securitization program totaling $2.9 million for the three months ended February 28, 2006, which is compared to other expense of $0.8 million for the three months ended February 28, 2005. This increase in other expense was due to an 68 Table of Contents increase in the amount of receivables sold under the program during the three months ended February 28, 2006. Subsequent to January 2005, several amendments increased the net cash proceeds available at any one time under the program from $120.0 million to $250.0 million. Interest Income. Interest income increased to $5.6 million for the three months ended February 28, 2006, from $2.9 million for the three months ended February 28, 2005. The increase was primarily due to higher interest yields on higher levels of operating cash, cash deposits and cash equivalents, and interest income recorded in relation to the note receivable from an unrelated third party. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased to $5.3 million for the three months ended February 28, 2006 from $4.9 million for the three months ended February 28, 2005. The increase for the three months ended February 28, 2006 was primarily a result of greater interest expense recognized on our $300.0 million 5.875% senior notes issued in July of 2003 (the Senior Notes) due to the termination of our interest rate swap agreement in June 2005. The interest rate swap effectively converted the fixed interest rate of the Senior Notes to a variable rate, which was more favorable than the fixed rate for the three months ended February 28, 2006. Income Taxes. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of 14.6% for the three months ended February 28, 2006, as compared to an effective rate of 15.2% for the three months ended February 28, 2005. The decrease is primarily a result of the tax benefit associated with stock based compensation expense realized in accordance with SFAS 123R, which we adopted in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The tax rate is predominantly a function of the mix of tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Our international operations have historically been taxed at a lower rate than in the United States, primarily due to tax incentives, including tax holidays, granted to our sites in Malaysia, China, Brazil, Poland, Hungary, and India that expire at various dates through 2017. Such tax holidays are subject to conditions with which we expect to continue to comply. Quarter ended November 30, 2005 compared to quarter ended November 30, 2004 (as restated) Net Revenue. Our net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2005 increased 31.1% to $2.4 billion, from $1.8 billion for the three months ended November 30, 2004. The increase for the three months ended November 30, 2005 from the same period of the previous fiscal year was due to increased sales levels across most industry sectors. Specific increases include a 63% increase in the sale of consumer products; a 52% increase in the sale of instrumentation and medical products; a 19% increase in the sale of peripheral products; a 10% increase in the sale of computing and storage products; a 4% increase in the sale of networking products; and a 9% increase in the sale of automotive products. The increased sales levels were due to the addition of new customers and organic growth in these industry sectors. The increase in the instrumentation and medical industry sector was primarily attributable to increased sales levels as more vertical companies in this industry sector are electing to outsource their production and the acquisition of VEM in March 2005. The increase in the consumer industry sector was primarily attributable to new and existing program growth resulting from our product diversification efforts within this sector. These increases were partially offset by a 1% decrease in the sale of telecommunications products. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased to 8.1% of net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2005, from 8.4% of net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2004. The percentage decrease for the three months ended November 30, 2005 versus the same period of fiscal year 2005 was primarily due to a higher portion of materials based revenue (driven in part by growth in the consumer industry sector), combined with the continued shift of production to lower cost regions. In absolute dollars, gross profit for the three months ended November 30, 2005 increased $41.0 million versus the same period of fiscal 2005 due to the increased revenue base. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended November 30, 2005 increased to $94.5 million (3.9% of net revenue) compared to $74.5 million (4.1% of 69 Table of Contents net revenue) for the three months ended November 30, 2004. The absolute dollar increase and decrease as a percentage of net revenue for the three months ended November 30, 2005 were primarily due to the recognition of stock based compensation expense resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123R and the acquisition of VEM in March 2005. Research and Development. Research and development expenses for the three months ended November 30, 2005 increased to $6.6 million (0.3% of net revenue) from $5.9 million (0.3% of net revenue) for the three months ended November 30, 2004. The increase is attributed to growth in our product development activities related to new reference designs, including networking and server products, cell phone products, wireless and broadband access products, consumer products, and storage products. We also continued efforts in the design of circuit board assembly, mechanical design and the related production design process; and the development of new advanced manufacturing technologies. Amortization of Intangibles. We recorded $5.9 million of amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended November 30, 2005 as compared to $10.5 million for the three months ended November 30, 2004. The decrease is attributed to several acquisition related contractual agreements that were fully amortized prior to the three months ended November 30, 2005. Other Expense. We recorded other expense on the sale of accounts receivable under our securitization program totaling $2.0 million for the three months ended November 30, 2005, which is compared to other expense of $0.6 million for the three months ended November 30, 2004. This increase in other expense was due to an increase in the amount of receivables sold under the program during the three months ended November 30, 2005. Subsequent to January 2005, several amendments increased the net cash proceeds available at any one time under the program from $120.0 million to $250.0 million. Interest Income. Interest income increased to $5.0 million for the three months ended November 30, 2005 from $1.9 million for the three months ended November 30, 2004. The increase was primarily due to higher interest yields on higher levels of operating cash, cash deposits and cash equivalents, and interest income recorded in relation to the note receivable from an unrelated third party. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased to $4.3 million for the three months ended November 30, 2005 from $4.8 million for the three months ended November 30, 2004. The decrease was primarily a result of less interest expense recognized on our $300.0 million 5.875% senior notes issued in July of 2003 (the Senior Notes) due to the termination of our interest rate swap agreement in June 2005. The interest rate swap effectively converted the fixed interest rate of the Senior Notes to a variable rate, which was more favorable than the fixed rate for the three months ended February 28, 2006. Income Taxes. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of 12.1% for the three months ended November 30, 2005 as compared to an effective rate of 17.0% for the three months ended November 30, 2004. The decrease is primarily a result of the tax benefit associated with stock based compensation expense realized in accordance with SFAS 123R, which we adopted in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The tax rate is predominantly a function of the mix of tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Our international operations have historically been taxed at a lower rate than in the United States, primarily due to tax incentives, including tax holidays, granted to our sites in Malaysia, China, Brazil, Poland, Hungary, and India that expire at various dates through 2017. Such tax holidays are subject to conditions with which we expect to continue to comply. 70 Table of Contents c. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets for quarterly restated periods The following table sets forth the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets for the four quarters in the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005. As discussed above, we will not be amending our previously filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, however, we are including in this Form 10 K comparative information reflecting the restatement for the four quarters in the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005. As Previously Reported Fiscal Year 2005 August 31, 2005 May 31, 2005 February 28, 2005 November 30, 2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Assets Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 796,071 $ 681,042 $ 779,776 $ 619,836 Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $3,967, $5,922, $6,496 and $6,469, respectively 955,353 899,427 795,432 1,066,416 Inventories 818,435 739,111 677,087 751,127 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 75,335 85,174 80,562 85,177 Deferred income taxes 40,741 44,045 51,971 56,915 Total current assets 2,685,935 2,448,799 2,384,828 2,579,471 Property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $714,149, $684,132, $655,229 and $613,522, respectively 880,736 831,269 803,734 807,297 Goodwill 384,239 381,579 310,606 310,583 Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $134,367, $127,007, $115,513 and $105,148, respectively 69,062 76,317 42,334 49,923 Deferred income taxes 24,727 15,280 23,571 14,572 Other assets 32,563 29,580 13,664 13,330 Total assets $ 4,077,262 $ 3,782,824 $ 3,578,737 $ 3,775,176 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Current liabilities: Current installments of notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations $ 674 $ 637 $ 644 $ 1,966 Accounts payable 1,339,866 1,165,720 1,009,467 1,213,068 Accrued expenses 224,766 213,442 195,535 253,498 Income taxes payable 2,823 1,360 10,699 11,691 Total current liabilities 1,568,129 1,381,159 1,216,345 1,480,223 Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations, less current installments 326,580 311,881 289,888 294,993 Other liabilities 47,336 43,690 51,785 51,771 Total liabilities 1,942,045 1,736,730 1,558,018 1,826,987 Stockholders equity: Common stock 204 203 202 202 Additional paid in capital 1,041,884 1,012,861 1,001,072 989,149 Retained earnings 1,021,800 951,268 891,915 845,868 Unearned compensation (8,774 ) (9,014 ) (9,524 ) (10,048 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income 80,103 90,776 137,054 123,018 Total stockholders equity 2,135,217 2,046,094 2,020,719 1,948,189 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 4,077,262 $ 3,782,824 $ 3,578,737 $ 3,775,176 71 Table of Contents Adjustments Fiscal Year 2005 August 31, 2005 May 31, 2005 February 28, 2005 November 30, 2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Assets Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ $ $ $ Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts Inventories Prepaid expenses and other current assets Deferred income taxes Total current assets Property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation Goodwill Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization Deferred income taxes 10,724 7,267 6,580 5,264 Other assets Total assets $ 10,724 $ 7,267 $ 6,580 $ 5,264 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Current liabilities: Current installments of notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations $ $ $ $ Accounts payable Accrued expenses Income taxes payable Total current liabilities Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations, less current installments Other liabilities Total liabilities Stockholders equity: Common stock Additional paid in capital 51,857 36,241 29,615 24,208 Retained earnings (41,133 ) (28,974 ) (23,035 ) (18,944 ) Unearned compensation Accumulated other comprehensive income Total stockholders equity 10,724 7,267 6,580 5,264 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 10,724 $ 7,267 $ 6,580 $ 5,264 72 Table of Contents As Restated Fiscal Year 2005 August 31, 2005 May 31, 2005 February 28, 2005 November 30, 2004 (in thousands, except per share data) Assets Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 796,071 $ 681,042 $ 779,776 $ 619,836 Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $3,967, $5,922, $6,496 and $6,469, respectively 955,353 899,427 795,432 1,066,416 Inventories 818,435 739,111 677,087 751,127 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 75,335 85,174 80,562 85,177 Deferred income taxes 40,741 44,045 51,971 56,915 Total current assets 2,685,935 2,448,799 2,384,828 2,579,471 Property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $714,149, $684,132, $655,229 and $613,522, respectively 880,736 831,269 803,734 807,297 Goodwill 384,239 381,579 310,606 310,583 Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $134,367, $127,007, $115,513 and $105,148, respectively 69,062 76,317 42,334 49,923 Deferred income taxes 35,451 22,547 30,151 19,836 Other assets 32,563 29,580 13,664 13,330 Total assets $ 4,087,986 $ 3,790,091 $ 3,585,317 $ 3,780,440 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Current liabilities: Current installments of notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations $ 674 $ 637 $ 644 $ 1,966 Accounts payable 1,339,866 1,165,720 1,009,467 1,213,068 Accrued expenses 224,766 213,442 195,535 253,498 Income taxes payable 2,823 1,360 10,699 11,691 Total current liabilities 1,568,129 1,381,159 1,216,345 1,480,223 Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations, less current installments 326,580 311,881 289,888 294,993 Other liabilities 47,336 43,690 51,785 51,771 Total liabilities 1,942,045 1,736,730 1,558,018 1,826,987 Stockholders equity: Common stock 204 203 202 202 Additional paid in capital 1,093,741 1,049,102 1,030,687 1,013,357 Retained earnings 980,667 922,294 868,880 826,924 Unearned compensation (8,774 ) (9,014 ) (9,524 ) (10,048 ) Accumulated other comprehensive income 80,103 90,776 137,054 123,018 Total stockholders equity 2,145,941 2,053,361 2,027,299 1,953,453 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 4,087,986 $ 3,790,091 $ 3,585,317 $ 3,780,440 73 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Expansion We have made a number of acquisitions that were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Our consolidated financial statements include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition. See Risk Factors We may not achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions. For further discussion of our recent and planned acquisitions, see Note 8 Business Acquisitions and Note 17 Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have substantially completed and commenced operations in our new manufacturing facilities in Ranjangaon, India and Wuxi, China, and we will continue to invest in these facilities as production ramps into fiscal year 2007. We recently began construction of a new facility in Uzhgorod, Ukraine and currently expect to commence operations in this facility in the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. We have begun construction on an expansion to our existing manufacturing facility in Kwidzyn, Poland during the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. The additional capacity is currently expected to be available toward the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. We also began construction on a new manufacturing facility in Chennai, India during the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. Operations in this new facility are currently expected to commence in the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. We entered into a merger agreement on November 22, 2006 with Taiwan Green Point Enterprises Co., Ltd. (Green Point), pursuant to which Green Point agreed to merge with and into an existing Jabil entity in Taiwan. The legal merger was effective on April 24, 2007. The legal merger was primarily achieved through a tender offer that we made to acquire 100% of the outstanding shares of Green Point for 109.0 New Taiwan dollars per share. The tender offer was launched on November 23, 2006 and remained open for a period of 50 days. During the tender offer period, we acquired approximately 260.9 million shares, representing 97.6% of the outstanding shares of Green Point. On January 16, 2007, we paid cash of approximately $870.7 million (in U.S. dollars) to acquire the tendered shares. Subsequent to the completion of the tender offer and prior to the completion of the acquisition, we acquired approximately 2.1 million Green Point shares in block trades for a price of 109.0 New Taiwan dollars per share (or approximately $7.0 million in U.S. dollars). On April 24, 2007, pursuant to the November 22, 2006 merger agreement, we acquired the approximately 4.1 million remaining outstanding Green Point shares that were not tendered during the tender offer period, for 109.0 New Taiwan dollars per share (or approximately $13.3 million in U.S. dollars). In total, we paid a total cash amount of approximately $891.0 million in U.S. dollars to complete the merger with Green Point. To fund the acquisition, we entered into a $1.0 billion, 364 day senior unsecured bridge loan facility with a global financial institution on December 21, 2006. See Note 17 Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Seasonality Production levels for our consumer and automotive industry sectors are subject to seasonal influences. We may realize greater net revenue during our first fiscal quarter due to high demand for consumer products during the holiday selling season. Dividends During fiscal year 2006, on May 4, 2006 and August 2, 2006, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend to common stockholders of $0.07 per share. The May 4, 2006 declared cash dividend, totaling approximately $14.9 million, was paid on June 1, 2006 to stockholders of record on May 15, 2006. The August 2, 2006 declared cash dividend, totaling approximately $14.3 million, was paid on September 1, 2006 to stockholders of record on August 15, 2006. During fiscal year 2007, the Companys Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend to common stockholders of $0.07 per share on November 2, 2006, January 22, 2007 and April 30, 2007. The November 2, 2006 declared cash dividend, totaling approximately $14.4 million, was paid on December 1, 2006 to stockholders of record on November 15, 2006. The January 22, 2006 declared cash 74 Table of Contents dividend, totaling approximately $14.4 million, was paid on March 1, 2007 to stockholders of record on February 15, 2007. The April 30, 2007 declared cash dividend will be paid on June 1, 2007 to stockholders of record on May 15, 2007. We currently expect to continue to declare and pay quarterly dividends of an amount similar to our past declarations. However, the declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance. Liquidity and Capital Resources At August 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalent balances totaling $773.6 million, total notes payable, long term debt and capital lease obligations of $393.3 million and $512.2 million available for borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization program. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal year ended August 31 selected consolidated cash flow information (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 448,176 $ 590,001 $ 451,241 Net cash used in investing activities (417,470 ) (488,694 ) (205,593 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (67,906 ) 60,940 (318,440 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 14,692 12,502 (5,634 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (22,508 ) $ 174,749 $ (78,426 ) Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2006 was $448.2 million. This consisted primarily of $164.5 million of net income, $198.7 million of depreciation and amortization, $80.7 million of non cash restructuring charges, $43.8 million of non cash stock based compensation expense, and $868.2 million from increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses. The increase in accounts payable was due to the increase in inventory and timing of purchases near year end. Additionally, accrued compensation and employee benefits increased over the prior fiscal year primarily due to the increase in number of employees at August 31, 2006. These sources of cash were partially offset by increases in inventory of $577.9 million, increases in accounts receivable of $299.4 million and increases in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $38.9 million. The increase in inventory was due primarily to incremental inventory associated with our partnering with an existing customer in a new lean manufacturing process; and the pre positioning of inventory in anticipation of forecasted first quarter demand. The increase in accounts receivable was due primarily to the increased revenue base, partially offset by the sale of an incremental $63.5 million of receivables under our securitization program. The increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets was due primarily to an increase in refundable value added taxes. Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal year 2006 was $417.5 million. This consisted primarily of our capital expenditures of $279.9 million for manufacturing and computer equipment to support our ongoing business across all segments and for expansion activities in China, Eastern Europe and India; and net cash of $166.7 million paid for the acquisition of Celetronix and several other immaterial business acquisitions. These expenditures were partially offset by $29.1 million of proceeds from the sale of certain excess property, plant and equipment. Net cash used in financing activities for fiscal year 2006 was $67.9 million. This resulted from $477.3 million of payments toward debt agreements and capital lease obligations, which primarily included $418.5 million toward repayment of borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and $51.0 million toward payment of certain debt obligations assumed in the acquisition of Celetronix. These cash payments were partially 75 Table of Contents offset by approximately $131.6 million of net proceeds received upon the issuance of common stock under option plans and employee stock purchase plans; approximately $5.7 million associated with the tax benefit of options exercised; and approximately $487.0 million of proceeds from borrowings under debt agreements. These borrowings primarily included $418.5 million of borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility to partially fund the acquisition of Celetronix in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, and for the common stock repurchase and working capital needs for operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. See Note 9 Notes Payable, Long Term Debt and Long Term Lease Obligations and Note 13 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We may need to finance future growth and any corresponding working capital needs with additional borrowings under our revolving credit facilities described below, as well as additional public and private offerings of our debt and equity. During the first quarter of fiscal year 1999, we filed a $750.0 million shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of debt and equity securities in the future, from time to time, to augment our liquidity and capital resources. In June 2000, we sold 13.0 million shares of our common stock pursuant to our shelf registration statement, which generated net proceeds of $525.4 million. In August 2000, we increased the amount of securities available to be issued under a shelf registration statement to $1.5 billion. In May 2001, we issued a total of $345.0 million, 20 year, 1.75% convertible subordinated notes (the Convertible Notes) at par, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $337.5 million. The Convertible Notes were issued pursuant to our shelf registration statement. The Convertible Notes were to mature on May 15, 2021 and paid interest semiannually on May 15 and November 15. Under the terms of the Convertible Notes, the Note holders had the right to require us to purchase all or a portion of their Convertible Notes on May 15 in the years 2004, 2006, 2009 and 2014 at par plus accrued interest. Additionally, we had the right to redeem all or a portion of the Convertible Notes for cash at any time on or after May 18, 2004. On May 17, 2004, we paid $70.4 million par value to certain note holders who exercised their right to require us to purchase their Convertible Notes. On May 18, 2004, we paid $274.6 million par value upon exercise of our right to redeem the remaining Convertible Notes outstanding. In addition to the par value of the Convertible Notes, we paid accrued and unpaid interest of approximately $3.1 million to the note holders. As a result of these transactions, we recognized a loss of $6.4 million on the write off of unamortized issuance costs associated with the Convertible Notes. This loss was recorded as other expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2004. In July 2003, we issued a total of $300.0 million, seven year, 5.875% senior notes (5.875% Senior Notes) at 99.803% of par, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $297.2 million. The 5.875% Senior Notes were offered pursuant to our shelf registration statement. The 5.875% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2010 and pay interest semiannually on January 15 and July 15. See Note 17 Subsequent Events for discussion surrounding our failure to meet the condition of the indenture that requires delivery of our annual and quarterly financial statements to the bond trustee within 15 days after the deadline for filing such financial statements with the SEC (as extended by Form 12b 25). In July 2003, we entered into an interest rate swap transaction to effectively convert the fixed interest rate of our 5.875% Senior Notes to a variable rate. The swap, which was to expire in 2010, was accounted for as a fair value hedge under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities (SFAS 133). The notional amount of the swap was $300.0 million, which is related to the 5.875% Senior Notes. Under the terms of the swap, we paid an interest rate equal to the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rate, set in arrears, plus a fixed spread of 1.945%. In exchange, we received a fixed rate of 5.875%. The swap transaction qualified for the shortcut method of recognition under SFAS 133, therefore no portion of the swap was treated as ineffective. The interest rate swap was terminated on June 3, 2005. The fair value of the interest rate swap of $4.5 million was recorded in long term liabilities, with the corresponding offset recorded as a decrease to the carrying value of the 5.875% Senior Notes, on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at the termination date. In addition, we had recorded $0.4 million of interest 76 Table of Contents receivable from the issuing bank as of the termination date. Upon termination, Jabil made a net $4.1 million cash payment to the issuing bank to derecognize the interest rate swap and the accrued interest. The $4.5 million decrease to the carrying value of the 5.875% Senior Notes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet will be amortized to earnings through interest expense over the remaining term of the debt. Approximately $855.0 million of securities remain registered with the SEC under our shelf registration statement at August 31, 2006. The Securities Act of 1933 (the Act) Offering Reform, which was effective on December 1, 2005, has significantly modified the registration and offering process under the Act. Based on the new registration and offering regime, we may file a new shelf registration statement to replace the existing shelf. Under the new rules, we anticipate that once we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 for one year from the date we become current on those filings, Jabil will be classified as a well known seasoned issuer, thereby allowing the Company to take advantage of the simplified registration procedures. At this time, the Company is still evaluating whether to file a new shelf registration statement. As a result of our delayed filing of Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, we will be ineligible to issue shares under our shelf registration until we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 for one year from the date we become current on those filings. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we renewed our existing 0.6 billion Japanese yen (approximately $5.1 million based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2006) credit facility for a Japanese subsidiary with a Japanese bank. Under the terms of the renewed facility, we pay interest on outstanding borrowings based on the Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread of 0.50%. The renewed credit facility expired on December 2, 2006 and all outstanding borrowings were fully paid. At August 31, 2006, there were no borrowings outstanding under this facility. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003, we amended and revised our then existing credit facility and established a three year, $400.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks (the Amended Revolver). Under the terms of the Amended Revolver, borrowings could be made under either floating rate loans or Eurodollar rate loans. Interest is accrued on outstanding floating rate loans at the greater of the agents prime rate or 0.50% plus the federal funds rate. Interest is accrued on outstanding Eurodollar loans at the LIBOR in effect at the loan inception plus a spread of 0.65% to 1.35%. A facility fee based on the committed amount of the Amended Revolver was payable at a rate equal to 0.225% to 0.40%. A usage fee was also payable if our borrowings on the Amended Revolver exceeded 33 1/3% of the aggregate commitment. The usage fee rate ranged from 0.125% to 0.25%. The interest spread, facility fee and usage fee were determined based on our general corporate rating or rating of our senior unsecured long term indebtedness as determined by Standard and Poors Rating Service (S&P) and Moodys Investor Service (Moodys). The Amended Revolver had an expiration date of July 14, 2006 when outstanding borrowings would then be due and payable. The Amended Revolver required compliance with several financial covenants including a fixed charge coverage ratio, consolidated net worth threshold and indebtedness to EBITDA ratio, as defined in the Amended Revolver. The Amended Revolver required compliance with certain operating covenants, which limited, among other things, our incurrence of additional indebtedness. On March 10, 2005, we borrowed $80.0 million under the Amended Revolver to partially fund the acquisition of VEM, which was consummated on March 11, 2005. This borrowing was repaid in full during the third quarter of fiscal year 2005 from cash provided by operations. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, we replaced the Amended Revolver and established a five year, $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks (the Unsecured Revolver). The Unsecured Revolver, which expires on May 11, 2010, may be increased to a maximum of $750.0 million at the request of the Company if approved by the lenders. Such requests must be for an increase of at least $50.0 million or an integral multiple thereof, and may only be made once per calendar year. Interest and fees on Unsecured Revolver advances are based on the Companys senior unsecured long term indebtedness rating as determined by S&P and Moodys. Interest is charged at either the base rate or a rate equal to 0.50% to 0.95% 77 Table of Contents above the Eurocurrency rate, where the base rate, available for U.S. dollar advances only, represents the greater of the agents prime rate or 0.50% plus the federal funds rate, and the Eurocurrency rate represents the applicable LIBOR, each as more fully defined in the Unsecured Revolver. Fees include a facility fee based on the total commitments of the lenders, a letter of credit fee based on the amount of outstanding letters of credit, and a utilization fee to be added to the interest rate and the letter of credit fee during any period when the aggregate amount of outstanding advances and letters of credit exceeds 50% of the total commitments of the lenders. Based on the Companys current senior unsecured long term indebtedness rating as determined by S&P and Moodys, the current rate of interest plus the applicable facility and utilization fee on a full Eurocurrency rate draw would be 1.25% above the Eurocurrency rate as defined above. Among other things, the Unsecured Revolver contains financial covenants establishing a debt to EBITDA ratio and interest coverage ratio; and contains operating covenants, which limit, among other things, our incurrence of indebtedness at the subsidiary level, and the incurrence of liens at all levels. The various covenants, limitations and events of default included in the Unsecured Revolver are currently customary for similar facilities for similarly rated borrowers. The Company was in compliance with the respective covenants at August 31, 2006. See Note17 Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of covenant waivers that were obtained subsequent to August 31, 2006. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, we borrowed $67.0 million against the Unsecured Revolver, which included $40.0 million to partially fund the acquisition of Celetronix on March 31, 2006. These borrowings were repaid in full during the third quarter of fiscal year 2006 from cash provided by operations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we borrowed $351.5 million against the Unsecured Revolver, which was used primarily for the common stock repurchase and working capital needs for operations. These borrowings were repaid in full during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 from cash provided by operations. At August 31, 2006, there were no borrowings outstanding on the Unsecured Revolver. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, we entered into an asset backed securitization program with a bank, which originally provided for net cash proceeds at any one time of an amount up to $100.0 million on the sale of eligible accounts receivable of certain domestic operations. As a result of an amendment in April 2004, the program was increased to an amount up to $120.0 million of net cash proceeds at any one time. As a result of a second amendment in February 2005, the program was renewed and increased to an amount up to $145.0 million of net cash proceeds at any one time. The program was increased to an amount up to $175.0 million of net cash proceeds at any one time by a third amendment in May 2005. A fourth amendment in November 2005 increased the program to an amount up to $250.0 million of net cash proceeds at any one time. As a result of a fifth amendment in February 2006, the program was renewed. Under this agreement, we continuously sell a designated pool of trade accounts receivable to a wholly owned subsidiary, which in turn sells an ownership interest in the receivables to a conduit, administered by an unaffiliated financial institution. This wholly owned subsidiary is a separate bankruptcy remote entity and its assets would be available first to satisfy the claims of the conduit. As the receivables sold are collected, we are able to sell additional receivables up to the maximum permitted amount under the program. The securitization program requires compliance with several financial covenants including an interest coverage ratio and debt to EBITDA ratio, as defined in the securitization agreements, as amended. The securitization agreements, as amended, expire in February 2007 and may be extended on an annual basis. For each pool of eligible receivables sold to the conduit, we retain a percentage interest in the face value of the receivables, which is calculated based on the terms of the agreement. Net receivables sold under this program are excluded from accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. We continue to service, administer and collect the receivables sold under this program. We pay facility fees of 0.18% per annum of 102% of the average purchase limit and program fees of up to 0.18% of outstanding amounts. The investors and the securitization conduit have no recourse to the Companys assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. As of August 31, 2006, we had sold $348.3 million of eligible accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total outstanding receivables at that date. In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $238.5 million and retained an interest in the receivables of approximately $109.8 million. In connection with the securitization program, we recognized pretax losses on the sale of receivables of approximately $11.9 million, $4.1 million and $0.8 million during the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which are recorded as other expense on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. See 78 Table of Contents Note 17 Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion surrounding amendments to the securitization program that occurred subsequent to August 31, 2006 and for covenant waivers obtained subsequent to August 31, 2006. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, we entered into an agreement with an unrelated third party for the factoring of specific accounts receivable of a foreign subsidiary. Under the terms of the factoring agreement, we transfer ownership of eligible accounts receivable without recourse to the third party purchaser in exchange for cash. Proceeds on the transfer reflect the face value of the account less a discount. The discount is recorded as a loss on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the period of the sale. The factoring agreement expired in March 2007 and was extended for a six month period. The receivables sold pursuant to this factoring agreement are excluded from accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. We continue to service, administer and collect the receivables sold under this program. The third party purchaser has no recourse to our assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. At August 31, 2006, we had sold $29.8 million of accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total outstanding receivables at that date. In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $29.8 million. The accounts receivable sold under this factoring agreement and the resulting loss on the sale were insignificant for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2006 and 2005. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, we negotiated a five year, 400.0 million Indian rupee construction loan for an Indian subsidiary with an Indian branch of a global bank. Under the terms of the loan, we pay interest on outstanding borrowings based on a fixed rate of 7.45%. The construction loan expires on April 15, 2010 and all outstanding borrowings are then due and payable. The 400.0 million Indian rupee principal outstanding is equivalent to approximately $8.6 million based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2006. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, we negotiated a five year, 25.0 million Euro construction loan for a Hungarian subsidiary with a Hungarian branch of a global bank. Under the terms of the loan facility, we pay interest on outstanding borrowings based on the Euro Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread of 0.925%. Quarterly principal repayments begin in September 2006 to repay the amount of proceeds drawn under the construction loan. The construction loan expires on April 13, 2010. At August 31, 2006, proceeds of 21.3 million Euros (approximately $27.2 million based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2006) had been drawn under the construction loan. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we negotiated a short term, 225.0 million Indian rupee credit facility for an Indian subsidiary with an Indian branch of a global bank. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, this facility was increased to 750.0 million Indian rupees. Under the terms of the facility, we pay interest on outstanding borrowings based on a fixed rate mutually agreed with the bank at the time of borrowing. At August 31, 2006, borrowings of 633.9 million Indian rupees (approximately $13.6 million based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2006) were outstanding under this facility and incurring interest at an average rate of 7.8%. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, we acquired the operations of Celetronix as discussed in Note 8 Business Acquisitions. Through the acquisition we assumed certain liabilities, including a short term financing obligation of approximately $51.1 million at the date of acquisition. This financing obligation was associated with an accounts receivable discounting agreement with a global bank, which was discontinued at the closing of the acquisition on March 31, 2006. Cash collected on the related accounts receivable was remitted to the bank to satisfy the obligation and all outstanding amounts were paid in full by the expiration date of July 15, 2006. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, we assumed a short term Chinese yuan renmimbi credit facility for an acquired Chinese subsidiary with a Chinese bank. Under the terms of the facility, the bank determines the maximum borrowing limit and applicable fixed interest rate at the time of borrowing. At the date of acquisition, there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility. At August 31, 2006, borrowings of 15.0 million 79 Table of Contents Chinese yuan renmimbi (approximately $1.9 million based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2006) were outstanding under this facility and incurring interest at a fixed rate of 5.4%. The outstanding amount, which was determined by the bank to be the maximum borrowing limit, is due and payable by November 9, 2006. This facility was canceled in the second quarter of fiscal year 2007. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, we entered into a sale leaseback transaction involving our facility in Ayr, Scotland. We continue to occupy the facility through a three year leasing arrangement with the third party purchaser, which requires quarterly lease payments of 62.5 thousand pounds sterling (approximately $119.0 thousand based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2006). We received cash proceeds of approximately 2.8 million pounds sterling (approximately $4.8 million based on currency exchange rates on the date of the transaction) and retained a right to receive additional consideration upon resale of the facility at a later date. Due primarily to our continuing involvement in the property, we were precluded from recording the transaction as a sale under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, as required by relevant accounting standards, the cash proceeds were recorded as a financing obligation. A portion of the quarterly lease payments are recorded as interest expense, based on an effective yield of 5.875%, and the remainder is recorded as a reduction of the financing obligation. At August 31, 2006, the balance of the financing obligation is approximately 2.7 million pounds sterling (approximately $5.2 million based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2006). During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we entered into a short term, $45.0 million working capital facility for an Indian subsidiary with an Indian branch of a global bank. Borrowings under this facility are revolving in nature and are outstanding for a period of up to 180 days. Under the terms of the facility, we pay interest on outstanding borrowings based on LIBOR plus a spread of 0.5%. At August 31, 2006, borrowings of $40.4 million were outstanding under this facility. Due to the delay in filing our Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, as well as the delay in filing our Form 10 Q for the fiscal periods ended November 30, 2006 and February 28, 2007, we have obtained all of the necessary covenant waivers for all other material debt instruments that have not been previously discussed above. See Note 2 Stock Option Litigation and Restatements to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into a $1.0 billion unsecured bridge credit agreement with a syndicate of banks (the Bridge Facility). The Bridge Facility expires on December 20, 2007. Of the Bridge Facility, $900.0 million is designated for use as a one time borrowing (which may be taken down in increments) to finance the tender offer for our merger with Taiwan Green Point Enterprises Co., Ltd., which is further discussed below, along with any related costs and expenses, and the remaining $100.0 million of the Bridge Facility is a revolving facility to be used for general corporate purposes. See Note 17 Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the Bridge Facility. In addition, see Risk Factor We must refinance or repay our Bridge Facility on or before December 20, 2007 which will require additional financing that we cannot assure you will be available to us on attractive terms unless we issue additional equity. At August 31, 2006, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash, available borrowings under our credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization program. Our working capital requirements and capital expenditures could continue to increase in order to support future expansions of our operations through construction of greenfield operations or acquisitions. It is possible that future expansions may be significant and may require the payment of cash. Future liquidity needs will also depend on fluctuations in levels of inventory and shipments, changes in customer order volumes and timing of expenditures for new equipment. We currently anticipate that during the next twelve months, our capital expenditures will be in the range of $200.0 million to $250.0 million, principally for machinery and equipment across all segments, and expansion in Eastern Europe. We believe that our level of resources, which include cash on hand, available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our accounts receivable securitization program 80 Table of Contents and funds provided by operations, will be adequate to fund these capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, the payment of approximately $59.9 million for current restructuring activities, and our working capital requirements for the next twelve months. We entered into a merger agreement on November 22, 2006 with Taiwan Green Point Enterprises Co., Ltd. (Green Point), pursuant to which Green Point agreed to merge with and into an existing Jabil entity in Taiwan. The legal merger was effective on April 24, 2007. The legal merger was primarily achieved through a tender offer that we made to acquire 100% of the outstanding shares of Green Point for 109.0 New Taiwan dollars per share. The tender offer was launched on November 23, 2006 and remained open for a period of 50 days. During the tender offer period, we acquired approximately 260.9 million shares, representing 97.6% of the outstanding shares of Green Point. On January 16, 2007, we paid cash of approximately $870.7 million (in U.S. dollars) to acquire the tendered shares. Subsequent to the completion of the tender offer and prior to the completion of the acquisition, we acquired approximately 2.1 million Green Point shares in block trades for a price of 109.0 New Taiwan dollars per share (or approximately $7.0 million in U.S. dollars). On April 24, 2007, pursuant to the November 22, 2006 merger agreement, we acquired the approximately 4.1 million remaining outstanding Green Point shares that were not tendered during the tender offer period, for 109.0 New Taiwan dollars per share (or approximately $13.3 million in U.S. dollars). In total, we paid a total cash amount of approximately $891.0 million in U.S. dollars to complete the merger with Green Point. As discussed above, to fund the acquisition, we entered into a $1.0 billion Bridge Facility on December 21, 2006. See Note 17 Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Should we desire to consummate significant additional acquisition opportunities or undertake significant additional expansion activities, our capital needs would increase and could possibly result in our need to increase available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities or access public or private debt and equity markets. There can be no assurance, however, that we would be successful in raising additional debt or equity on terms that we would consider acceptable. Our contractual obligations for short and long term debt arrangements, future interest on notes payable and long term debt, and future minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating lease arrangements as of August 31, 2006 are summarized below. We do not participate in, or secure financing for any unconsolidated limited purpose entities. We generally do not enter into non cancelable purchase orders for materials until we receive a corresponding purchase commitment from our customer. Non cancelable purchase orders do not typically extend beyond the normal lead time of several weeks at most. Purchase orders beyond this time frame are typically cancelable. Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations $ 393,333 $ 63,813 $ 19,244 $ 310,276 $ Future interest on notes payable and long term debt 78,375 19,705 39,264 19,406 Operating lease obligations 184,600 51,111 67,077 33,335 33,077 Estimated future benefit plan payments 59,707 4,149 10,134 11,359 34,065 Total contractual cash obligations $ 716,015 $ 138,778 $ 135,719 $ 374,376 $ 67,142 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Risks We transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. All derivative instruments are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at their respective fair market values in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended (SFAS 133). The Company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify as an accounting hedge and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The aggregate notional amount of outstanding contracts at August 31, 2006 was $580.7 million. The fair value of these contracts amounted to a $3.8 million asset recorded in prepaid and other current assets and a $6.8 million liability recorded in accrued expenses on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The forward contracts will generally expire in less than four months, with five months being the maximum term of the contracts outstanding at August 31, 2006. The forward contracts will settle in British pounds, Euro dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Hungarian forints, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Polish zloty, Singapore dollars, Swedish krona, and U.S. dollars. We entered into several individual Taiwanese dollar foreign currency swap arrangements in connection with our tender offer for Taiwan Green Point Enterprises Co., Ltd. (Green Point). These New Taiwan dollar foreign currency swap arrangements had a notional value of 18.4 billion New Taiwan dollars as of March 31, 2007 (approximately $557.7 million based on currency exchange rates at March 31, 2007) and the related non deliverable forward contracts had a notional value of 10.0 billion New Taiwan dollars as of March 31, 2007 (approximately $302.5 million based on currency exchange rates at March 31, 2007). See Note 17 Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the Green Point acquisition. Interest Rate Risk A portion of our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our domestic investment portfolio. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. We place cash and cash equivalents with various major financial institutions. We protect our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. We mitigate default risk by generally investing in investment grade securities and by frequently positioning the portfolio to try to respond appropriately to a reduction in credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository to levels below the credit ratings dictated by our investment policy. The portfolio typically includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to ensure portfolio liquidity. At August 31, 2006, we had no outstanding investments. We pay interest on outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facilities at interest rates that fluctuate based upon changes in various base interest rates. These facilities include our Unsecured Revolver, our 0.6 billion Japanese yen credit facility and our short term Indian working capital facilities. There were no borrowings outstanding under these revolving credit facilities at August 31, 2006. We pay interest on outstanding borrowings under our 25.0 million Euro loan agreement for a Hungarian subsidiary at interest rates that fluctuate based upon changes in various base interest rates. There was 21.3 million Euro (approximately $27.2 million based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2006) outstanding under this loan agreement at August 31, 2006. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Risk Factors We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our international operations, which may be 82 Table of Contents subject to a number of risks and often require more management time and expense to achieve profitability than our domestic operations, and An adverse change in the interest rates for our borrowings could adversely affect our financial condition. See Note 1(q) Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Derivative Instruments, Note 9 Notes Payable, Long Term Debt and Long Term Lease Obligations and Note 15 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
