Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview We are one of the leading providers of worldwide electronic manufacturing services and solutions. We provide comprehensive electronics design, production, product management and aftermarket services to companies in the aerospace, automotive, computing, consumer, defense, industrial, instrumentation, medical, networking, peripherals, solar, storage and telecommunications industries. The industry in which we operate is composed of companies that provide a range of manufacturing and design services to companies that utilize electronics components in their products. The industry experienced rapid change and growth through the 1990s as an increasing number of companies chose to outsource an increasing portion, and, in some cases, all of their manufacturing requirements. In mid 2001, the industrys revenue declined as a result of significant cut backs in customer production requirements, which was consistent with the overall downturn in the technology sector at the time. In response to this downturn in the technology sector, we implemented restructuring programs to reduce our cost structure and further align our manufacturing capacity with the geographic production demands of our customers. Industry revenues generally began to stabilize in 2003 and companies turned to outsourcing versus internal manufacturing. In addition, the number of industries serviced, as well as the market penetration in certain industries, by electronic manufacturing service providers has increased over the past several years. After several years of growth, our net revenues for fiscal year 2009 declined by approximately 8.6% to $11.7 billion as compared to $12.8 billion for fiscal year 2008. This decline was largely the result of a deteriorating macro economic environment within this past year which resulted in illiquidity in the overall credit markets and a significant economic downturn in the North American, European and Asian markets. Though significant uncertainty remains regarding the extent and timing of the economic recovery, we are beginning to see signs of stabilization as the overall credit markets have significantly improved and it appears that the global economic stimulus programs put in place are starting to have a positive impact, particularly in China. We will continue to monitor the current economic environment and its potential impact on both the customers that we serve as well as our end markets and closely manage our costs and capital resources so that we can respond appropriately as circumstances continue to change. Such economic conditions led us to implement the 2009 Restructuring Plan discussed below. Also, as a result of recent economic conditions, some of our customers have moved a portion of their manufacturing from us in order to more fully utilize their excess internal manufacturing capacity. This movement, and possible future movements, may negatively impact our results of operations. We manage our business and operations in three divisions Consumer, EMS and AMS. We believe that these divisions provide cost effective solutions for our customers by grouping business units with similar needs together into divisions, each with full accountability for design, operations, supply chain management and delivery. Our Consumer division has dedicated resources designed to meet the particular needs of the consumer products industry and focuses on cell phones and mobile products, televisions, set top boxes and peripheral products such as printers. Our EMS division focuses on business sectors such as, aerospace, automotive, computing, defense, industrial, instrumentation, medical, networking, solar, storage and telecommunications businesses. Our AMS division provides warranty and repair services to customers in a broad range of industries, including certain of our manufacturing customers. We derive revenue principally from the product sales of electronic equipment built to customer specifications. We recognize revenue, net of estimated product return costs, generally when goods are shipped, title and risk of ownership have passed, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and recoverability is reasonably assured. The volume and timing of orders placed by our customers vary due to several factors, including: variation in demand for our customers products; our customers attempts to manage their inventory; electronic design changes; changes in our customers manufacturing strategies; and acquisitions of or consolidations among our customers. Demand for our customers products depends on, among other things, product life cycles, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. 35 Table of Contents Our cost of revenue includes the cost of electronic components and other materials that comprise the products we manufacture; the cost of labor and manufacturing overhead; and adjustments for excess and obsolete inventory. As a provider of turnkey manufacturing services, we are responsible for procuring components and other materials. This requires us to commit significant working capital to our operations and to manage the purchasing, receiving, inspection and stocking of materials. Although we bear the risk of fluctuations in the cost of materials and excess scrap, we periodically negotiate cost of materials adjustments with our customers. Net revenue from each product that we manufacture consists of an element based on the costs of materials in that product and an element based on the labor and manufacturing overhead costs allocated to that product. We refer to the portion of the sales price of a product that is based on materials costs as material based revenue, and to the portion of the sales price of a product that is based on labor and manufacturing overhead costs as manufacturing based revenue. Our gross margin for any product depends on the mix between the cost of materials in the product and the cost of labor and manufacturing overhead allocated to the product. We typically realize higher gross margins on manufacturing based revenue than we do on materials based revenue. As we gain experience in manufacturing a product, we usually achieve increased efficiencies, which result in lower labor and manufacturing overhead costs for that product. Our operating results are impacted by the level of capacity utilization of manufacturing facilities; indirect labor costs; and selling, general and administrative expenses. Operating income margins have generally improved during periods of high production volume and high capacity utilization. During periods of low production volume, we generally have idle capacity and reduced operating income margins. As our capacity has grown during recent years through the construction of new greenfield facilities, the expansion of existing facilities and our acquisition of additional facilities, our selling, general and administrative expenses have increased to support this growth. We have consistently utilized advanced circuit design, production design and manufacturing technologies to meet the needs of our customers. To support this effort, our engineering staff focuses on developing and refining design and manufacturing technologies to meet specific needs of specific customers. Most of the expenses associated with these customer specific efforts are reflected in our cost of revenue. In addition, our engineers engage in RD of new technologies that apply generally to our operations. The expenses of these RD activities are reflected in the Research and Development line item in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. An important element of our strategy is the expansion of our global production facilities. The majority of our revenue and materials costs worldwide are denominated in U.S. dollars, while our labor and utility costs in plants outside the U.S. are denominated in local currencies. We economically hedge these local currency costs, based on our evaluation of the potential exposure as compared to the cost of the hedge, through the purchase of foreign exchange contracts. Changes in the fair market value of such hedging instruments are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Risk Factors We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue. A significant reduction in sales to any of our large customers or a customer exerting significant pricing and margin pressures on us would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the past, some of our customers have terminated their manufacturing arrangements with us or have significantly reduced or delayed the volume of manufacturing services ordered from us. There can be no assurance that present or future customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of manufacturing services ordered from us. Any such termination of a manufacturing relationship or change, reduction or delay in orders could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See Risk Factors Because we depend on a limited number of customers, a reduction in sale to any one of our customers could cause a significant decline in our revenue, Risk Factors Most of our customers do not commit to long term production schedules, which makes it difficult for us to schedule production and achieve maximum efficiency of our manufacturing capacity, Risk Factors Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities, delay production or change their sourcing strategy and Note 13 Concentration of Risk and Segment Data to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summary of Results Net revenues for fiscal year 2009 decreased approximately 8.6% to $11.7 billion compared to $12.8 billion for fiscal year 2008 due to decreases in all of our sectors, except for the mobility sector and the AMS division. These decreases were largely due to the reductions in customer demand resulting from the downturn in the global macro economic environment. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan to better align our manufacturing capacity in certain geographies and to reduce our worldwide workforce by approximately 3,000 employees in order to reduce operating expenses (the 2009 Restructuring Plan). These restructuring activities were intended to address market conditions and properly size our manufacturing facilities to increase the efficiencies of our operations. Based on the analysis completed to date, we currently expect to recognize approximately $64.0 million in pre tax restructuring and impairment costs and reduce our world wide headcount by approximately 4,500 employees over the course of our fiscal years 2009 and 2010. We have also recorded a valuation allowance of $13.1 million on certain deferred tax assets. The restructuring charges include pre tax employee severance and termination benefit costs, contract termination costs and other related restructuring costs. The impairment charges include pre tax 36 Table of Contents fixed asset impairment costs, as well as valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets. This information will be subject to the finalization of timetables for the transition of functions, consultation with employees and their representatives as well as the statutory severance requirements of the particular legal jurisdictions impacted, and the amount and timing of the actual charges may vary due to a variety of factors. Based on the ongoing assessment of market conditions, it is possible that we may perform additional restructuring activities in the future. For further discussion of this restructuring program and the restructuring and impairment costs recognized, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Restructuring and Impairment Charges and Note 10 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See also Risk Factors We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal year ended August 31, certain key operating results and other financial information (in thousands, except per share data). Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net revenue $ 11,684,538 $ 12,779,703 $ 12,290,592 Gross profit $ 718,815 $ 867,801 $ 812,030 Operating (loss) income $ (910,201 ) $ 251,397 $ 181,939 Net (loss) income $ (1,165,212 ) $ 133,892 $ 73,236 (Loss) earnings per share basic $ (5.63 ) $ 0.65 $ 0.36 (Loss) earnings per share diluted $ (5.63 ) $ 0.65 $ 0.35 Key Performance Indicators Management regularly reviews financial and non financial performance indicators to assess the Companys operating results. The following table sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, certain of managements key financial performance indicators. Three Months Ended August 31, May 31, February 28, November 30, 2009 2009 2009 2008 Sales cycle 16 days 22 days 20 days 24 days Inventory turns 9 turns 8 turns 8 turns 8 turns Days in accounts receivable 41 days 40 days 36 days 44 days Days in inventory 42 days 46 days 46 days 46 days Days in accounts payable 67 days 64 days 62 days 66 days Three Months Ended August 31, May 31, February 29, November 30, 2008 2008 2008 2007 Sales cycle 20 days 21 days 23 days 22 days Inventory turns 8 turns 8 turns 8 turns 8 turns Days in accounts receivable 40 days 39 days 39 days 42 days Days in inventory 45 days 47 days 47 days 42 days Days in accounts payable 65 days 65 days 63 days 62 days The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators. Days in accounts receivable increased one day to 41 days during the three months ended August 31, 2009 from the prior sequential quarter which was primarily due to timing of sales and cash collection efforts during the quarter. During the three months ended May 31, 2009, days in accounts receivable increased four days to 40 days from the prior sequential quarter as a result of lower utilization of our accounts receivable securitization program at the end of the quarter. During the three months ended February 28, 2009, days in accounts receivable decreased eight days to 36 days from the prior sequential quarter as a result of the timing of sales and focused efforts on cash collection during the quarter, as well as related seasonality factors. During the three months ended November 30, 2008 days in accounts receivable increased four days to 44 days from the prior sequential quarter as a result of consumer sector seasonal demand, the launch of new product volumes late in the quarter, and the reduction in the sales of receivables under our North American Securitization Program. Days in inventory decreased four days to 42 days during the three months ended August 31, 2009 from the prior sequential quarter as a result of improved inventory management. Days in inventory remained consistent at 46 days during the three months ended May 31, 2009, the three months ended February 28, 2009, and the three months ended November 30, 2008. Inventory turns increased to 9 turns during the three months ended August 31, 2009 from 8 turns during the prior sequential quarters. 37 Table of Contents Days in accounts payable increased three days to 67 days during the three months ended August 31, 2009 from the prior sequential quarter. Days in accounts payable increased two days to 64 days during the three months ended May 31, 2009 from the prior sequential quarter, decreased four days to 62 days during the three months ended February 28, 2009 from the prior sequential quarter and increased one day to 66 days during the three months ended November 30, 2008 from the prior sequential quarter. These fluctuations in days in accounts payables during fiscal year 2009 were primarily a result of timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the respective quarters. The sales cycle was 16 days during the three months ended August 31, 2009, 22 days during the three months ended May 31, 2009, 20 days during the three months ended February 28, 2009 and 24 days during the three months ended November 30, 2008. The changes in the sales cycle are due to the changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable and inventory that are discussed above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect our reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various other factors and circumstances. Management believes that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may vary from these estimates and assumptions under different future circumstances. It has been difficult to make predictions and estimates based on our historical experience due to the uncertain economic circumstances present in the macro economic environment. We have identified the following critical accounting policies that affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion of our significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from the product sales of electronic equipment built to customer specifications. We also derive revenue to a lesser extent from aftermarket services, design services and excess inventory sales. Revenue from product sales and excess inventory sales is generally recognized, net of estimated product return costs, when goods are shipped; title and risk of ownership have passed; the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and recoverability is reasonably assured. Aftermarket service related revenue is recognized upon completion of the services. Design service related revenue is generally recognized upon completion and acceptance by the respective customer. We assume no significant obligations after product shipment. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts related to receivables not expected to be collected from our customers. This allowance is based on managements assessment of specific customer balances, considering the age of receivables and financial stability of the customer. If there is an adverse change in the financial condition and circumstances of our customers, or if actual defaults are higher than provided for, an addition to the allowance may be necessary. Inventory Valuation We purchase inventory based on forecasted demand and record inventory at the lower of cost or market. Management regularly assesses inventory valuation based on current and forecasted usage, customer inventory related contractual obligations and other lower of cost or market considerations. If actual market conditions or our customers product demands are less favorable than those projected, additional valuation adjustments may be necessary. Long Lived Assets We review property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of property, plant and equipment is measured by comparing its carrying value to the undiscounted projected cash flows that the asset(s) or asset group(s) are expected to generate. If the carrying amount of an asset or an asset group is not recoverable, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset over its respective fair value, which is generally determined as either the present value of estimated future cash flows or the appraised value. The impairment analysis is based on significant assumptions of future results made by management, including revenue and cash flow projections. Circumstances that may lead to impairment of property, plant and equipment include unforeseen decreases in future performance or industry demand and the restructuring of our operations resulting from a change in our business strategy or adverse economic conditions. For further discussion of our current restructuring program, refer to Note 10 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Restructuring and Impairment Charges. We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill, in connection with business acquisitions. Estimated useful lives of amortizable intangible assets are determined by management based on an assessment of the period over which the asset is expected to contribute to future cash flows. The allocation of amortizable intangible assets impacts the amounts allocable to goodwill. 38 Table of Contents In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), we perform a goodwill impairment analysis using the two step method on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level, which we have determined to be consistent with our operating segments by comparing the reporting units carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair market value of the reporting unit. We consistently determine the fair market value of our reporting units based on an average weighting of both projected discounted future results and the use of comparative market multiples. The use of comparative market multiples (the market approach) allows us to compare ourselves to companies based on valuation multiples to arrive at a fair value. We regularly evaluate our Company and our divisions relative to our competitors and we believe the judgments used to arrive at these comparable companies are reasonable. The use of projected discounted future results (discounted cash flow approach) is based on assumptions that are consistent with our estimates of future growth and the strategic plan used to manage the underlying business and also includes a probability weighted expectation as to our future cash flows. Factors requiring significant judgment include assumptions related to future growth rates, discount factors, and tax rates, amongst other considerations. Changes in economic and operating conditions that occur after the annual impairment analysis or an interim impairment analysis, and that impact these assumptions, may result in a future goodwill impairment charge. Based upon a combination of factors, including a significant and sustained decline in our market capitalization below our carrying value, the deteriorating macro economic environment, which resulted in a significant decline in customer demand, and illiquidity in the overall credit markets, we concluded that sufficient indicators of impairment existed and, accordingly, performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis during the first quarter and again in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, we determined that the goodwill related to the Consumer reporting unit was impaired and recorded a preliminary non cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $317.7 million. The income tax expense associated with the preliminary goodwill impairment charge was $4.4 million. This included a tax benefit of $30.6 million for the write off of tax deductible goodwill and tax expense of $35.0 million resulting from the recognition of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we no longer believe are more likely than not to be realized. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, and prior to finalizing the preliminary non cash goodwill impairment charge recorded at November 30, 2008, related to the Consumer reporting unit, we concluded that additional impairment indicators were present. As a result of that analysis, we determined that the goodwill related to the Consumer reporting unit was fully impaired and recorded an additional non cash goodwill impairment charge of the remaining approximately $82.7 million. Further, we also determined that the goodwill related to the EMS reporting unit was fully impaired and recorded a preliminary non cash goodwill impairment charge of the remaining approximately $622.4 million. The income tax expense associated with the goodwill impairment was $111.8 million for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2009. This included a tax benefit of $9.0 million for the write off of tax deductible goodwill and income tax expense of $120.8 million resulting from the recognition of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we no longer believe are more likely than not to be realized. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, we finalized the valuation of the tangible and intangible assets and the allocation of fair value to the assets and liabilities of the EMS reporting unit with no additional impairment charges recorded. After recognition of the above non cash goodwill impairment charge, no goodwill remained with the Consumer and EMS reporting units, respectively. The non cash goodwill impairment charge of $1.0 billion for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009 did not impact our cash balance or debt covenant compliance. The impairment evaluation for indefinite lived intangible assets, which for us is a trade name, is conducted during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired. As a result of the impairment indicators described above, during the first quarter and again in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, we evaluated our trade name for impairment by comparing the discounted estimates of future revenue projections to its carrying value and determined that there was no impairment. Additionally, we noted that there were no impairment indicators present during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2009. Significant judgments inherent in this analysis included assumptions regarding appropriate revenue growth rates, discount rates and royalty rates. We completed the annual impairment test for goodwill, which consisted of approximately $25.1 million related to the AMS reporting unit, and indefinite lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 and determined that no impairment existed as of the date of the impairment test. We review long lived assets, including intangible assets subject to amortization, which for us are our contractual agreements, customer relationships and intellectual property, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of long lived assets is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset group to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by those assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment charge recognized is the amount by which the carrying amounts of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. As a result of the impairment indicators described above, during the first quarter and again in the second 39 Table of Contents quarter of fiscal year 2009, we tested our long lived assets for impairment and determined that there was no impairment. Additionally, no impairment indicators were present during the third or fourth quarters of fiscal year 2009. Restructuring and Impairment Charges We have recognized restructuring and impairment charges related to reductions in workforce, re sizing and closure of certain facilities, and the transition of production from certain facilities into other new and existing facilities. These charges were recorded pursuant to formal plans developed and approved by management and our Board of Directors. The recognition of restructuring and impairment charges requires that we make certain judgments and estimates regarding the nature, timing and amount of costs associated with these plans. The estimates of future liabilities may change, requiring additional restructuring and impairment charges or the reduction of liabilities already recorded. At the end of each reporting period, we evaluate the remaining accrued balances to ensure that no excess accruals are retained and the utilization of the provisions are for their intended purpose in accordance with the restructuring programs. For further discussion of our restructuring programs, refer to Note 10 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Restructuring and Impairment Charges. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits We have pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities in certain foreign locations that are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial valuations require management to make certain judgments and estimates of discount rates, compensation rate increases and return on plan assets. We evaluate these assumptions on a regular basis taking into consideration current market conditions and historical market data. The discount rate is used to state expected future cash flows at a present value on the measurement date. This rate represents the market rate for high quality fixed income investments. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. When considering the expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets, we take into account current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on plan assets. Other assumptions include demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover. For further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, refer to Note 9 Postretirement Benefits to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes We estimate our income tax provision in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, a process that includes estimating exposures related to examinations by taxing authorities. We must also make judgments regarding the ability to realize the deferred tax assets. The carrying value of our net deferred tax assets is based on our belief that it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions to realize these deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance has been established for deferred tax assets that we do not believe meet the more likely than not criteria established by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). Our judgments regarding future taxable income may change due to changes in market conditions, changes in tax laws or other factors. If our assumptions and consequently our estimates change in the future, the valuation allowances we have established may be increased or decreased, resulting in a respective increase or decrease in income tax expense. As discussed above, during fiscal year 2009, we realized a tax benefit of $39.6 million for the write off of tax deductible goodwill and income tax expense of $155.8 million resulting from the recognition of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we no longer believe are more likely than not to be realized. In June of 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. For further discussion related to our income taxes, refer to Note 4 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock Based Compensation In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share Based Payments (SFAS 123R) and the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107), we began recognizing stock based compensation expense in our consolidated statement of operations on September 1, 2005. The fair value of options granted prior to September 1, 2005 were valued using the Black Scholes model while the stock appreciation rights granted after this date were valued using a lattice valuation model. Option pricing models require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the option or stock appreciation right, risk free rate, expected dividend yield and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Judgment is also required in estimating the number of stock awards that are expected to vest as a result of satisfaction of time based vesting schedules or the achievement of certain performance conditions. If actual results or future changes in estimates differ significantly from our current estimates, stock based compensation could increase or decrease. For further discussion of our stock based compensation, refer to Note 12 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Risk Factors The matters relating to the Special Committees review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our 40 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements have resulted in litigation and regulatory inquiries and may result in future litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 15 New Accounting Pronouncements to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of net revenue: Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 93.8 93.2 93.4 Gross profit 6.2 6.8 6.6 Selling, general and administrative 4.3 3.8 4.0 Research and development 0.2 0.3 0.3 Amortization of intangibles 0.3 0.3 0.2 Restructuring and impairment charges 0.4 0.4 0.6 Goodwill impairment charges 8.8 0.0 0.0 Operating (loss) income (7.8 ) 2.0 1.5 Other expense 0.2 0.1 0.1 Interest income (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Interest expense 0.7 0.8 0.7 (Loss) income before income taxes and minority interest (8.6 ) 1.2 0.8 Income tax expense 1.4 0.2 0.2 Minority interest, net of tax 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net (loss) income (10.0 %) 1.0 % 0.6 % Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2008 Net Revenue. Our net revenue decreased 8.6% to $11.7 billion for fiscal year 2009, down from $12.8 billion in fiscal year 2008. Specific decreases include a 45% decrease in the sale of display products; a 27% decrease in the sale of networking products; a 25% decrease in the sale of automotive products; an 18% decrease in the sale of computing and storage products; a 9% decrease in the sale of telecommunication products; a 5% decrease in the sale of peripheral products; a 5% decrease in the sale of instrumentation and medical products; and a 35% decrease in the sale of other products. These decreases were largely driven by reduced production levels as a result of softened customer demand due to the weakened macro economic environment. Specific increases include an 8% increase in aftermarket services and a 50% increase in the sale of mobility products predominately related to the production of new products with an existing customer within the sector. Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition. Accordingly, we do not differentiate or report separately revenue increases generated by acquisitions as opposed to existing business. In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, revenue by industry sector expressed as a percentage of net revenue. The distribution of revenue across our industry sectors has fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, as a result of numerous factors, including but not limited to the following: fluctuations in customer demand as a result of the weakened macro economic environment; our continuing efforts to de emphasize the economic performance of certain sectors, most specifically in the automotive and display sectors; seasonality in our business; and business growth from new and existing customers, including production of new products in the mobility sector. 41 Table of Contents Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 2008 2007 EMS Automotive 3 % 4 % 5 % Computing and storage 11 % 13 % 11 % Instrumentation and medical 19 % 18 % 19 % Networking 17 % 21 % 20 % Telecommunications 6 % 6 % 5 % Other 2 % 2 % 2 % Total EMS 58 % 64 % 62 % Consumer Display 4 % 7 % 8 % Mobility 20 % 12 % 16 % Peripherals 12 % 12 % 10 % Total Consumer 36 % 31 % 34 % AMS 6 % 5 % 4 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Foreign source revenue represented 83.8% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2009 and 79.6% of net revenue for fiscal year 2008. We currently expect our foreign source revenue to slightly increase as a percentage of net revenue over the course of fiscal year 2010 due to expansion in Asia and Eastern Europe. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased to $718.8 million (6.2% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2009 from $867.8 million (6.8% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2008. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue from the prior fiscal year was primarily due to our revenues decreasing at a higher rate than certain of our fixed costs as we continue to seek to reduce our cost structure in order to align with lower demand levels and our excess capacity given current macro economic conditions. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $495.9 million (4.3% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2009 from $491.3 million (3.8% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2008. On an absolute dollar basis, selling general and administrative expenses remained relatively constant. Certain of our selling, general and administrative costs are generally necessary to support our business and the need for such support does not immediately change as a result of our revenues increasing or decreasing. On a percentage basis, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, therefore, was primarily due to our revenues decreasing at a higher rate than certain of our selling, general and administrative costs as compared to the twelve months ended August 31, 2008. Research and Development. Research and development (RD) expenses for fiscal year 2009 decreased to $27.3 million (0.2% of net revenue) from $33.0 million (0.3% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2008. The decrease is attributed primarily to the de emphasis of original design manufacture in certain consumer sectors. Amortization of Intangibles. We recorded $31.0 million of amortization of intangibles in fiscal year 2009 as compared to $37.3 million in fiscal year 2008. The decrease was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets that became fully amortized since August 31, 2008. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Acquisitions and Expansion below, Note 1(f) Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and Note 7 Business Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring and Impairment Charges. a. 2009 Restructuring Plan In conjunction with the 2009 Restructuring Plan, we currently expect to recognize approximately $64.0 million in total restructuring and impairment costs, excluding valuation allowances of $13.1 million on certain deferred tax assets, primarily over the course of fiscal years 2009 and 2010. Of this expected total, we charged $53.7 million in fiscal year 2009 to the Consolidated Statement of Operations. These charges related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan include $47.1 million related to employee severance and termination benefit costs, $0.1 million related to lease commitments, $6.4 million related to fixed asset impairments, and $0.1 million related to other restructuring costs. 42 Table of Contents These $53.7 million restructuring and impairment charges related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan incurred through August 31, 2009 include cash costs totaling $47.3 million, of which $19.2 million was paid in fiscal year 2009. The cash costs of $47.3 million consist of employee severance and termination benefit costs of approximately $47.1 million, $0.1 million related to lease commitments, and approximately $0.1 million related to other restructuring costs. Non cash costs of approximately $6.4 million primarily represent fixed asset impairment charges related to our restructuring activities. At August 31, 2009, accrued liabilities of approximately $27.8 million related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan are expected to be paid over the next twelve months. The remaining liability of $3.0 million is expected to be paid primarily through fiscal year 2011. Upon its completion, the 2009 Restructuring Plan is expected to yield annualized cost savings of approximately $55.0 million. The majority of these annual cost savings are expected to be reflected as a reduction in cost of revenue, with a small portion being reflected as a reduction of selling, general and administrative expense. These expected annualized cost savings reflect a reduction in employee expense of approximately $40.8 million, a reduction in depreciation expense of approximately $5.9 million, a reduction in lease commitment costs of approximately $0.1 million, a reduction of other manufacturing costs of approximately $4.8 million and a reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses of approximately $3.4 million. Of the $55.0 million of expected annualized cost savings, we have realized a cumulative annual cost savings of approximately $14.0 million by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. As part of the 2009 Restructuring Plan, we have determined that it was more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets would not be realized as a result of the contemplated restructuring activities. Therefore, we recorded a valuation allowance of $13.1 million on deferred tax assets as a result of the 2009 Restructuring Plan. The valuation allowances are excluded from the restructuring and impairment charge of $53.7 million for fiscal year 2009 as they were recorded through the provision for income taxes on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. b. 2006 Restructuring Plan Upon the approval by our Board of Directors, we initiated a restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 (the 2006 Restructuring Plan). We have substantially completed restructuring activities under this plan and expect to incur the remaining costs over the remainder of fiscal year 2010 with certain contract termination costs to be incurred through fiscal year 2011. We recorded a reversal of restructuring and impairment costs of $1.8 million during fiscal year 2009 and a charge of restructuring and impairment costs of $54.8 million in fiscal year 2008. The reversal of restructuring and impairment costs for fiscal year 2009 include $2.7 million related to less employee severance and termination benefit costs than originally anticipated, offset by additional lease commitment charges of $0.9 million. At August 31, 2009, liabilities of approximately $4.2 million related to the 2006 Restructuring Plan are expected to be paid out over the next twelve months. The remaining liability of $4.0 million relates primarily to the charge for certain lease commitments and employee severance and termination benefits payments and is expected to be paid primarily during the remainder of fiscal year 2010 through fiscal year 2011. As of August 31, 2009, as a result of the restructuring activities related to the 2006 Restructuring Plan, we expect to avoid annual costs of approximately $151.5 million that would otherwise have been incurred if the restructuring activities had not been completed. The expected avoided annual costs consist of a reduction in employee related expenses of approximately $137.7 million, a reduction in depreciation expense associated with impaired fixed assets of approximately $8.5 million, and a reduction in rent expense associated with leased buildings that have been vacated of approximately $5.3 million. The majority of these annual cost savings will be reflected as a reduction in cost of revenue, with a small portion being reflected as a reduction in selling, general and administrative expense. These annual costs savings are expected to be offset by decreased revenues associated with certain products that are approaching the end of life stage; decreased revenues as a result of shifting production to plants located in lower cost regions where competitive environmental pressures require that we pass those cost savings onto our customers; and incremental employee related costs expected to be incurred by those plants to which the production will be shifted. After considering these cost savings offsets, we began to realize the full net annualized cost savings of approximately $39.0 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. For further discussion of the restructuring programs, see Note 10 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Charge. We recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge in the amount of $1.0 billion for fiscal year 2009 to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill to its estimated fair value based upon the results of two interim impairment tests conducted during the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2009. We performed these impairment tests based upon a combination of factors, including a significant and sustained decline in our market capitalization below our carrying value, the deteriorating macro economic environment, which resulted in a significant decline in customer demand and illiquidity in the overall credit markets. The total goodwill impairment charge included $400.4 million in the Consumer reporting segment and $622.4 million in the EMS reporting segment. After recognition of these charges, no goodwill remained with the Consumer and EMS reporting units, respectively. A further significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our 43 Table of Contents expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates, however, could result in the need to perform an impairment analysis under SFAS 142 in future periods. For further discussion of goodwill impairment charges recorded, see Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Long Lived Assets. Other Expense. We recorded other expense totaling $20.1 million and $11.9 million for the fiscal years ending August 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in other expense was primarily due to recognizing a loss of $10.5 million on the extinguishment of $294.9 million of our 5.875% Senior Notes and recording a loss on the impairment of a note receivable for $4.2 million. This increase was primarily offset by a decrease in the loss on the sale of accounts receivable under our North American securitization program of $6.6 million which was primarily due to a decrease in the amount of receivables sold under the program during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009, as well as a decrease in the interest rates during the period. The net cash proceeds available at any one time under the North American asset backed securitization program was decreased from $280.0 million to $250.0 million during fiscal year 2009. For further discussion of our accounts receivable securitization program, see Note 2 Accounts Receivable Securitizations to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Income. Interest income decreased to $7.4 million in fiscal year 2009 from $12.0 million in fiscal year 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower overall interest rates during the year. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased to $82.2 million in fiscal year 2009 from $94.3 million in fiscal year 2008. The decrease was primarily a result of lower variable interest rates and lower utilization of the foreign asset backed securitization program during the twelve months ended August 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2008. Income Taxes. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of (16.0)% for fiscal year 2009, as compared to an effective tax rate of 16.0% for fiscal year 2008. The effective tax rate differs from the previous period due to the impairment of non deductible goodwill and the corresponding valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets that are no longer more likely than not to be realized. The tax rate is predominantly a function of the mix of tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Most of our international operations have historically been taxed at a lower rate than in the U.S., primarily due to tax incentives granted to our sites in Brazil, China, Hungary, India, Malaysia and Poland that expire at various dates through 2020. Such tax incentives are subject to conditions with which we expect to continue to comply. See Risk Factors We are subject to the risk of increased taxes and Note 4 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2008 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2007 Net Revenue. Our net revenue increased 4.0% to $12.8 billion for fiscal year 2008, up from $12.3 billion in fiscal year 2007. The increase in our net revenue base year over year primarily represents stronger market share with our existing programs, organic growth from new and existing customers as vertical companies continue to convert to an outsourcing model, and additional sales related to certain recent business acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by decreased levels of production with a major customer in the mobility sector and reduced demand in certain other sectors due to a softening market. See Note 7 Business Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion on our recent business acquisitions. Specific increases include a 40% increase in the sale of telecommunication products; a 20% increase in the sale of peripheral products; a 16% increase in the sale of other products; a 13% increase in aftermarket services; a 12% increase in the sale of networking products; and a 12% increase in the sale of computing and storage products. Specific decreases include a 23% decrease in the sale of mobility products; a 6% decrease in the sale of automotive products; a 5% decrease in the sale of display products; and a 1% decrease in the sale of instrumentation and medical products. 44 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, revenue by industry sector expressed as a percentage of net revenue. The distribution of revenue across our industry sectors has fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, as a result of numerous factors, including but not limited to the following: increased business from new and existing customers; fluctuations in customer demand; seasonality, especially in the consumer industry sectors; and increased growth in the automotive, consumer, and instrumentation and medical products industry sectors as more vertical companies are electing to outsource their production in these areas. 2008 2007 EMS Automotive 4 % 5 % Computing and storage 13 % 11 % Instrumentation and medical 18 % 19 % Networking 21 % 20 % Telecommunications 6 % 5 % Other 2 % 2 % Total EMS 64 % 62 % Consumer Display 7 % 8 % Mobility 12 % 16 % Peripherals 12 % 10 % Total Consumer 31 % 34 % AMS 5 % 4 % Total 100 % 100 % Foreign source revenue represented 79.6% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2008 and 78.8% of net revenue for fiscal year 2007. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased to $867.8 million (6.8% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2008 from $812.0 million (6.6% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2007. The percentage increase from the prior fiscal year was partially due to factors that decreased gross profit in fiscal year 2007, but have since been resolved. The factors that contributed to decreased gross profit in fiscal year 2007 included inefficiencies in our consumer model which adversely impacted margins, shifting to a more integrated model with one customer and shifting to a more vertical solution that integrated our Green Point services for another significant customer. In addition, we have exited production of certain targeted products in the consumer sector. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to $491.3 million (3.8% of net revenue) from $492.0 million (4.0% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2007. The slight absolute dollar decrease was due to several factors including a $14.5 million decrease in legal and accounting expenses incurred during fiscal year 2007 related to the independent stock option review that was performed; a $14.0 million reversal of previously recognized stock based compensation expense as a result of a change in estimate related to performance based restricted stock awards that are no longer expected to vest; and a decrease of $4.9 million in stock based compensation expense incurred during fiscal year 2007 related to certain 2006 personal tax liabilities incurred by certain option holders who have exercised Section 409A affected options as defined under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. These decreases were offset by an increase of $7.4 million as a result of Green Point being consolidated for a full year in fiscal year 2008; an increase of $13.1 million related to the NSN acquisition; and an increase of $13.1 million stock based compensation expense associated with our annual grant of stock based awards to employees. RD. RD expenses for fiscal year 2008 decreased to $33.0 million (0.3% of net revenue) from $36.4 million (0.3% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2007. The decrease is attributed primarily to an increased level of customer funded design projects, along with the repositioning of certain design resources to lower cost regions. Amortization of Intangibles. We recorded $37.3 million of amortization of intangibles in fiscal year 2008 as compared to $29.3 million in fiscal year 2007. The increase was primarily attributable to amortization of intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions consummated in fiscal year 2007, offset by certain fully amortized intangible assets. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Acquisitions and Expansion below, Note 1(f) Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and Note 7 Business Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring and Impairment Charges. As mentioned in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary of Results, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we initiated the 2006 Restructuring Plan. 45 Table of Contents We have substantially completed restructuring activities and expect to incur the remaining costs over the course of fiscal year 2009 with certain contract termination costs to be incurred through fiscal year 2011. For fiscal year 2008, the 2006 Restructuring Plan resulted in restructuring and impairment charges of $54.8 million consisting of employee severance and benefit costs of approximately $46.7 million, costs related to lease commitments of approximately $7.3 million, fixed asset impairments of approximately $0.3 million and other restructuring costs of approximately $0.5 million. For fiscal year 2007, the 2006 Restructuring Plan resulted in restructuring and impairment charges of $72.4 million, consisting of employee severance and benefit costs of approximately $31.3 million, costs related to lease commitments of approximately $2.7 million, fixed asset impairments of approximately $45.6 million and other restructuring costs of approximately $1.1 million, offset by $8.3 million of proceeds received in connection with facility closure costs. Through August 31, 2008, the 2006 Restructuring Plan has resulted in restructuring and impairment charges of $209.1 million. These charges include cash costs totaling $160.2 million, of which $1.5 million was paid in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006, $64.8 million was paid in fiscal year 2007 and $57.2 million was paid in fiscal year 2008. The cash costs consist of employee severance and benefits costs of approximately $146.4 million, costs related to lease commitments of approximately $20.0 million and other restructuring costs of $2.1 million. These cash costs were offset by $8.3 million of cash proceeds received in connection with a facility closure. Non cash costs of approximately $48.9 million primarily represent fixed asset impairment charges related to our restructuring activities. Other Expense. We recorded other expense on the sale of accounts receivable under our North American securitization program totaling $11.9 million and $15.9 million for the fiscal years ending August 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in other expense was primarily due to a decrease in the amount of receivables sold under the program during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008. For further discussion of our accounts receivable securitization program, see Note 2 Accounts Receivable Securitizations to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Income. Interest income decreased to $12.0 million in fiscal year 2008 from $14.5 million in fiscal year 2007. The decrease was primarily due to lower interest yields on operating cash, cash deposits and cash equivalents. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased to $94.3 million in fiscal year 2008 from $86.1 million in fiscal year 2007. The increase was primarily a result of higher overall average debt levels due to acquisition related debt being outstanding for a full fiscal year. Income Taxes. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of 16.0% for fiscal year 2008, as compared to an effective tax rate of 22.6% for fiscal year 2007. The decrease is primarily a result of increased income in jurisdictions with lower tax rates. The tax rate is predominantly a function of the mix of tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Our international operations have historically been taxed at a lower rate than in the U.S., primarily due to tax incentives, including tax holidays, granted to our sites in Brazil, China, Hungary, India, Malaysia and Poland that expire at various dates through 2017. Such tax holidays are subject to conditions with which we expect to continue to comply. See Risk Factors We are subject to the risk of increased taxes and Note 4 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Quarterly Results (Unaudited) The following table sets forth certain unaudited quarterly financial information for the 2009 and 2008 fiscal years. In the opinion of management, this information has been presented on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere, and all necessary adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the unaudited quarterly results when read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. 46 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2009 Fiscal Year 2008 Aug. 31, May 31, Feb. 28, Nov. 30, Aug. 31, May 31, Feb. 29, Nov. 30, 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 (in thousands, except per share data) Net revenue $ 2,799,528 $ 2,615,101 $ 2,887,400 $ 3,382,509 $ 3,264,874 $ 3,088,269 $ 3,058,613 $ 3,367,947 Cost of revenue 2,608,561 2,466,512 2,731,854 3,158,796 3,034,874 2,878,087 2,870,708 3,128,233 Gross profit 190,967 148,589 155,546 223,713 230,000 210,182 187,905 239,714 Selling, general and administrative 127,807 125,419 111,053 131,662 123,707 126,557 124,910 116,150 Research and development 8,714 7,198 5,754 5,655 8,603 8,006 9,863 6,512 Amortization of intangibles 7,719 7,612 7,673 8,035 9,653 9,058 9,722 8,855 Restructuring and impairment charges 3,582 16,167 31,524 621 262 3,470 41,789 9,287 Goodwill impairment charges 705,121 317,700 Operating (loss) income 43,145 (7,807 ) (705,579 ) (239,960 ) 87,775 63,091 1,621 98,910 Other expense 15,942 948 857 2,364 2,087 2,010 3,320 4,485 Interest income (2,112 ) (1,087 ) (1,920 ) (2,307 ) (2,759 ) (3,051 ) (3,152 ) (3,052 ) Interest expense 19,393 19,043 20,077 23,734 23,807 21,213 23,711 25,585 (Loss) income before income taxes and minority interest 9,922 (26,711 ) (724,593 ) (263,751 ) 64,640 42,919 (22,258 ) 71,892 Income tax (benefit) expense 3,989 2,528 142,018 12,363 7,729 4,657 3,102 9,631 Minority interest, net of tax 426 (477 ) (511 ) (257 ) (580 ) (183 ) (1,315 ) 260 Net (loss) income $ 5,507 $ (28,762 ) $ (866,100 ) $ (275,857 ) $ 57,491 $ 38,445 $ (24,045 ) $ 62,001 (Loss) earnings per share: Basic $ 0.03 $ (0.14 ) $ (4.19 ) $ (1.34 ) $ 0.28 $ 0.19 $ (0.12 ) $ 0.30 Diluted $ 0.03 $ (0.14 )(1) $ (4.19 )(1) $ (1.34 )(1) $ 0.28 $ 0.19 $ (0.12 )(1) $ 0.30 Common shares used in the calculations of (loss)/earnings per share: Basic 207,696 207,190 206,711 206,411 205,889 205,463 205,082 204,649 Diluted 208,846 207,190 206,711 206,411 206,804 206,077 205,082 206,605 (1) For the three months ended May 31, 2009, February 28, 2009, November 30, 2008 and February 29, 2008 all outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the Company was in a loss position. 47 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain financial information stated as a percentage of net revenue: Fiscal Year 2009 Fiscal Year 2008 Aug. 31, May 31, Feb. 28, Nov. 30, Aug. 31, May 31, Feb. 29, Nov. 30, 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 93.2 94.3 94.6 93.4 93.0 93.2 93.9 92.9 Gross profit 6.8 5.7 5.4 6.6 7.0 6.8 6.1 7.1 Selling, general and administrative 4.6 4.8 3.8 3.9 3.8 4.1 4.0 3.4 Research and development 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 Amortization of intangibles 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Restructuring and impairment charges 0.1 0.6 1.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 1.4 0.3 Goodwill impairment charges 0.0 0.0 24.4 9.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Operating income 1.5 (0.3 ) (24.4 ) (7.1 ) 2.6 2.0 0.1 2.9 Other expense 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Interest income (0.1 ) 0.0 (0.0 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Interest expense 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.8 Income (loss) before income taxes and minority interest 0.3 (1.0 ) (25.1 ) (7.8 ) 1.9 1.3 (0.7 ) 2.1 Income tax (benefit) expense 0.1 0.1 4.9 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 Minority interest, net of tax 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net income (loss) 0.2 % (1.1 )% (30.0 )% (8.2 )% 1.8 % 1.2 % (0.8 )% 1.8 % Acquisitions and Expansion We have made a number of acquisitions that were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Our consolidated financial statements include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition. See Risk Factors We may not achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions. For further discussion of our recent and planned acquisitions, see Note 7 Business Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources At August 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalent balances totaling $876.3 million, total notes payable, long term debt and capital lease obligations of $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facilities and amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization programs. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal year ended August 31 selected consolidated cash flow information (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 557,309 $ 420,002 $ 183,889 Net cash used in investing activities (286,175 ) (384,720 ) (1,054,422 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (195,913 ) 85,000 715,140 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 28,128 (10,984 ) 45,455 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 103,349 $ 109,298 $ (109,938 ) Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009 was approximately $557.3 million. This resulted primarily from a $1.0 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge, $292.0 million in non cash depreciation and amortization expense, a $51.9 million restructuring and impairment charge, a decrease of $169.7 million in trade accounts receivable, a $283.8 48 Table of Contents million decrease in inventories, a change in deferred income taxes of $102.4 million principally related to valuation allowances recorded against certain deferred tax assets and certain other items of net cash provided by operating activities offset by a $1.2 billion net loss and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $292.7 million. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses was primarily driven by the timing of purchases and cash payments and the reduction in sales levels during fiscal year 2009. The decrease in accounts receivable was predominately attributable to a reduction in sales levels and focused efforts to improve cash collections that was partially offset by reduced utilization of our securitization program. The decrease in inventories was primarily due to focused efforts during fiscal year 2009 to reduce inventory levels to better align with current customer demand. Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009 was $286.2 million. This consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $292.2 million for investments in capacity to support the ongoing production of new programs within the mobility sector and information and technology infrastructure and $4.2 million for cash payments related to recent business acquisitions. These expenditures were offset by $10.2 million of proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. Net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009 was $195.9 million. This resulted from our receipt of approximately $4.3 billion of proceeds from borrowings under existing debt agreements, which primarily included an aggregate of $3.6 billion of borrowings under the revolving portion of the Credit Facility, $239.3 million of borrowings under our short term Indian working capital facilities and $300.0 million of borrowings under the issuance of the 7.750% Senior Notes in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. This was offset by repayments in an aggregate amount of $4.4 billion during fiscal year 2009, which primarily included $3.6 billion toward repayment of borrowings under the revolving portion of the Credit Facility, $274.4 million toward repayment of borrowings under our short term Indian working capital facilities and $294.9 million toward the repayment of most of our 5.875% Senior Notes. We paid $59.6 million of dividends to stockholders during fiscal year 2009. We incurred $9.3 million in financing fees related to the extinguishment of our 5.875% Senior Notes and incurred $7.1 million in bond issuance costs related to the 7.750% Senior Notes that were issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. We may need to finance day to day working capital needs, as well as future growth and any corresponding working capital needs, with additional borrowings under our revolving credit facilities described below, as well as additional public and private offerings of our debt and equity. Currently, we have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future, from time to time, to augment our liquidity and capital resources. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, we entered into an asset backed securitization program with a bank, which originally provided for net cash proceeds at any one time of an amount up to $100.0 million on the sale of eligible trade accounts receivable of certain domestic operations. Subsequent to fiscal year 2004, several amendments have increased the net cash proceeds available at any one time under the securitization program up to an amount of $250.0 million and extended the program until March 17, 2010. Under this agreement, we continuously sell a designated pool of trade accounts receivable to a wholly owned subsidiary, which in turn sells an ownership interest in the receivables to a conduit, administered by an unaffiliated financial institution. This wholly owned subsidiary is a separate bankruptcy remote entity and its assets would be available first to satisfy the claims of the conduit. As the receivables sold are collected, we are able to sell additional receivables up to the maximum permitted amount under the program. The securitization program requires compliance with several financial covenants including an interest coverage ratio and debt to EBITDA ratio, as defined in the securitization agreements. For each pool of eligible receivables sold to the conduit, we retain a percentage interest in the face value of the receivables, which is calculated based on the terms of the agreement. Net receivables sold under this program are excluded from trade accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. We continue to service, administer and collect the receivables sold under this program. We pay a fee on the unused portion of the facility ranging between 0.875% and 0.925% per annum based on the average daily unused aggregate capital during the period. Further, we pay a usage fee on the utilized portion of the facility equal to 1.75% per annum on the average daily outstanding aggregate capital during the immediately preceding calendar month. The securitization conduit and the investors in the conduit have no recourse to our assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. At August 31, 2009, we had sold $331.2 million of eligible trade accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total outstanding receivables at that date. In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $108.9 million and retained an interest in the receivables of approximately $222.3 million. In connection with the securitization program, we recognized pretax losses on the sale of receivables of approximately $5.3 million, $11.9 million, and $15.9 million during fiscal the years ended August 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, which are recorded as other expense on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, we entered into an agreement with an unrelated third party for the factoring of specific trade accounts receivable of a foreign subsidiary. Under the terms of the factoring agreement, we transfer ownership of eligible trade accounts receivable without recourse to the third party purchaser in exchange for cash. Proceeds on the transfer reflect the face value of the account less a discount. The discount is recorded as a loss on the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the period of the sale. In April 2009, the factoring agreement was extended for a six month period. The receivables sold pursuant to this factoring agreement are excluded from trade accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. We continue to service, administer and collect the receivables sold under this program. The third party purchaser has no recourse to our assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. At 49 Table of Contents August 31, 2009, we had sold $18.1 million of trade accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total outstanding receivables at that date. In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $18.0 million. The resulting loss on trade accounts receivable sold under this factoring agreement was $0.1 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations outstanding at August 31, 2009 and 2008 are summarized below (in thousands): August 31, August 31, 2009 2008 5.875% Senior Notes due 2010 (a) $ 5,064 $ 298,198 7.750% Senior Notes due 2016 (b) 300,063 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 (c) 396,758 396,377 Short term factoring debt (d) 1,468 617 Borrowings under credit facilities (e) 21,313 55,579 Borrowings under loans (f) 384,485 447,647 Securitization program obligations (g) 125,291 170,975 Miscellaneous borrowings 6 17 Total notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations $ 1,234,448 $ 1,369,410 Less current installments of notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations 197,575 269,937 Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations, less current installments $ 1,036,873 $ 1,099,473 (a) During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003, we issued a total of $300.0 million, seven year, publicly registered 5.875% Senior Notes (the 5.875% Senior Notes) at 99.803% of par, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $297.2 million. The 5.875% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2010 and pay interest semiannually on January 15 and July 15. We are subject to covenants such as: limitation upon our consolidation, merger or sale; limitation upon our liens; limitation upon our sales and leasebacks; limitation upon our subsidiaries funded debt; limitation on guarantees given by our subsidiaries for our indebtedness; our corporate existence; reports; and compliance and notice requirements. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we repurchased $294.9 million in aggregate principal amount of the 5.875% Senior Notes, pursuant to a public cash tender offer, in which we also paid an early tender premium, accrued interest and associated fees and expenses. The extinguishment of those 5.875% Senior Notes that were validly tendered resulted in a charge of $10.5 million which was recorded to other expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the twelve months ended August 31, 2009. (b) During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we completed our offering of $312.0 million in aggregate principal amount of publicly registered 7.750% senior unsecured notes (the 7.750% Senior Notes). The net proceeds from the offering were $300.0 million. The 7.750% Senior Notes will mature on July 15, 2016. Interest on the 7.750% Senior Notes is payable on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2010. The 7.750% Senior Notes are our senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations. We are subject to such covenants as limitations on our and or our subsidiaries ability to: create certain liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee funded debt (which only applies to our restricted subsidiaries); guarantee any of our indebtedness (which only applies to our subsidiaries); and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets to, another person. We are also subject to a covenant regarding our repurchase of the 7.750% Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event. (c) During the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2008, we completed our offerings of $250.0 million and $150.0 million, respectively, in aggregate principal amount of 8.250% senior unsecured unregistered notes due March 15, 2018, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $245.7 million and $148.5 million, respectively. On July 18, 2008, we completed an exchange whereby all of the outstanding unregistered 8.250% Notes were exchanged for registered 8.250% Notes (collectively the 8.250% Senior Notes) that are substantially identical to the unregistered notes except that the 8.25% Senior Notes are registered under the Securities Act and do not have any transfer restrictions, registration rights or rights to additional special interest. The 8.250% Senior Notes will mature on March 15, 2018. Interest on the 8.250% Senior Notes is payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2008. The interest rate payable on the 8.250% Senior Notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the credit ratings assigned to the 8.250% Senior Notes increase or decrease, as provided in the 8.250% Senior Notes. The 8.250% Senior Notes are our senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations. 50 Table of Contents We are subject to certain covenants limiting our ability and or our subsidiaries ability to: create certain liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee any funded debt (which only applies to our restricted subsidiaries); guarantee any of our indebtedness (which only applies to our subsidiaries); and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of our assets to, another person. We are also subject to a covenant regarding our repurchase of the 8.250% Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into forward interest rate swap transactions to hedge the fixed interest rate payments for an anticipated debt issuance. The swaps were accounted for as a cash flow hedge under SFAS 133. The notional amount of the swaps was $400.0 million. Concurrently with the pricing of the first $250.0 million of the 8.250% Senior Notes, we settled $250.0 million of the swaps by our payment of $27.5 million. We also settled the remaining $150.0 million of swaps during the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 by our payment of $15.6 million. As a result, we settled the amount recognized as a current liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We also recorded $0.7 million in interest expense (as ineffectiveness) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations during the three months ended February 29, 2008, with the remainder recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. On May 19, 2008, we issued the remaining $150.0 million of 8.250% Senior Notes and recorded no additional interest expense (as ineffectiveness) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The effective portion of the swaps remaining on our Consolidated Balance Sheets will be amortized to interest expense on the Consolidated Statement of Operations over the life of the 8.250% Senior Notes. (d) During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we entered into separate agreements with an unrelated third party for the factoring of specific trade accounts receivable of a foreign subsidiary. The factoring of trade accounts receivable under these agreements does not meet the criteria for recognition as a sale in accordance with SFAS 140. Under the terms of these agreements, we transfer ownership of eligible trade accounts receivable to the third party purchaser in exchange for cash, however, as these transactions do not qualify as a sale, the relating trade accounts receivable are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets until the cash is received by the purchaser from our customer for the trade accounts receivable. We had an outstanding liability of $1.5 million and $0.6 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at August 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively related to these agreements. 51 Table of Contents (e) Various of our foreign subsidiaries have entered into several credit facilities to finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs. These credit facilities are denominated in various foreign currencies, including Indian rupees, as well as U.S. dollars. At August 31, 2009, only one such facility was outstanding in the amount of $21.3 million, which incurs interest at a variable rate of 3.91%. (f) During the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, we negotiated a five year, 400.0 million Indian rupee construction loan for an Indian subsidiary with an Indian branch of a global bank. Under the terms of the loan, we pay interest on outstanding borrowings based on a fixed rate of 7.45%. The construction loan expires on April 15, 2010 and all outstanding borrowings are then due and payable. The 400.0 million Indian rupee principal outstanding is equivalent to approximately $8.2 million based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2009. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, we negotiated a five year, 25.0 million Euro construction loan for a Hungarian subsidiary with a Hungarian branch of a global bank. Under the terms of the loan facility, we pay interest on outstanding borrowings based on the Euro Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread of 0.925%. Quarterly principal repayments began in September 2006 to repay the amount of proceeds drawn under the construction loan. The construction loan expires on April 13, 2010. At August 31, 2009, borrowings of 4.3 million Euros (approximately $6.2 million based on currency exchange rates at August 31, 2009) were outstanding under the construction loan. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into a three year loan agreement to borrow $20.3 million from a software vendor in connection with various software licenses that we purchased from them. The software licenses were capitalized and are being amortized over a three year period. The loan agreement is non interest bearing and payments are due quarterly through October 2009. At August 31, 2009, $1.7 million is outstanding under this loan agreement. Through the acquisition of a Taiwanese subsidiary in fiscal year 2007, we assumed certain liabilities, including short and long term debt obligations totaling approximately $102.2 million at the date of acquisition. At August 31, 2009, approximately $5.8 million of debt is outstanding under these short term mortgage and credit facilities, with current interest rates ranging from 2.1% to 2.4%. At August 31, 2009, approximately $0.4 million of fixed assets, including buildings and land, were pledged as collateral on the mortgage facility outstanding. At August 31, 2009, approximately $0.1 million of long term debt is outstanding and is classified as long term on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The long term debt amount represents a credit facility outstanding and denominated in New Taiwan dollars which will mature in fiscal year 2011 and incurs interest at a rate that fluctuates based upon changes in various base rate interest rates. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into the five year Credit Facility. This agreement provides for a revolving credit portion in the initial amount of $800.0 million, subject to potential increases up to $1.0 billion, and provides for a term portion in the amount of $400.0 million. Some or all of the lenders under the Credit Facility and their affiliates have various other relationships with us and our subsidiaries involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, loans, letter of credit and bank guarantee facilities, investment banking and trust services. We, along with some of our subsidiaries, have entered into foreign exchange contracts and other derivative arrangements with certain of the lenders and their affiliates. In addition, many, if not most, of the agents and lenders under the Credit Facility held positions as agent and or lender under our old revolving credit facility and the Bridge Facility. The revolving credit portion of the Credit Facility terminates on July 19, 2012, and the term loan portion of the Credit Facility requires payments of principal in annual installments of $20.0 million each, with a final payment of the remaining principal due on July 19, 2012. Interest and fees on Credit Facility advances are based on our unsecured long term indebtedness rating as determined by SP and Moodys. Interest is charged at a rate equal to either 0% to 0.75% above the base rate or 0.375% to 1.75% above the Eurocurrency rate, where the base rate represents the greater of Citibank, N.A.s prime rate or 0.50% above the federal funds rate, and the Eurocurrency rate represents the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate, each as more fully defined in this credit agreement. Fees include a facility fee based on the revolving credit commitments of the lenders, a letter of credit fee based on the amount of outstanding letters of credit, and a utilization fee to be added to the revolving credit interest rate and any letter of credit fee during any period when the aggregate amount of outstanding advances and letters of credit exceeds 50% of the total revolving credit commitments of the lenders. Based on our current senior unsecured long term indebtedness rating as determined by SP and Moodys, the current rate of interest (including the applicable facility and utilization fee) on a full draw under the revolving credit would be 0.275% above the base rate or 0.875% above the Eurocurrency rate, and the current rate of interest on the term portion would be the base rate or 0.875% above the Eurocurrency rate. We, along with our subsidiaries, are subject to the following financial covenants: (1) a maximum ratio of (a) Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to (b) Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) and (2) a minimum ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA to (b) interest payable on, and amortization of debt discount in respect of, debt and loss on sales of trade accounts receivables pursuant to our securitization program. In addition, we are subject to other covenants, such as: limitation upon liens; limitation upon mergers, etc; limitation upon accounting changes; limitation upon subsidiary debt; limitation upon sales, etc of assets; limitation upon changes in nature of business; payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; compliance with laws, etc; payment of taxes, etc; maintenance of insurance; preservation of corporate existence, etc; visitation rights; keeping of books; maintenance of properties, etc; transactions with affiliates; and reporting requirements (collectively referred to herein as Restrictive Financial Covenants). During fiscal year 2009, we borrowed $3.6 billion against the revolving credit portion of the Credit Facility. These borrowings were repaid in full during the fiscal year. A draw in the amount of $400.0 million has been made under the term portion of the Credit Facility and $360.0 million remains outstanding at August 31, 2009 In addition to the loans described above, at August 31, 2009, we have additional loans outstanding to fund working capital needs. These additional loans total approximately $2.5 million and are denominated in Euros. The loans are due and payable within 12 months and are classified as short term on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 52 Table of Contents (g) On April 7, 2008, we entered into a foreign asset backed securitization program with a bank conduit. In connection with the foreign securitization program certain of our foreign subsidiaries sell, on an ongoing basis, an undivided interest in designated pools of trade accounts receivable to a special purpose entity, which in turn borrows up to $200.0 million from the bank conduit to purchase those receivables and in which it grants security interests as collateral for the borrowings. The securitization program is accounted for as a borrowing under SFAS 140. The loan balance is calculated based on the terms of the securitization program agreements. The foreign securitization program requires compliance with several covenants including a limitation on certain corporate actions such as mergers, consolidations and sale of substantially all assets. We pay interest at designated commercial paper rates plus a spread. The foreign securitization program expires on March 18, 2010. At August 31, 2009, we had $125.3 million of debt outstanding under the program. In addition, we incurred interest expense of $3.9 million and $2.8 million in our Consolidated Statement of Operations during the twelve months ended August 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At August 31, 2009, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash, available borrowings under our credit facilities and our asset backed securitization programs. At August 31, 2009 and 2008, we were in compliance with all Restrictive Financial Covenants under the Credit Facility and our securitization programs. Our working capital requirements and capital expenditures could continue to increase in order to support future expansions of our operations through construction of greenfield operations or acquisitions. It is possible that future expansions may be significant and may require the payment of cash. Future liquidity needs will also depend on fluctuations in levels of inventory and shipments, changes in customer order volumes and timing of expenditures for new equipment. We currently anticipate that during the next twelve months, our capital expenditures will be in the range of $175.0 million to $225.0 million, principally for maintenance levels of machinery and equipment, machinery and equipment for new business and for information technology infrastructure upgrades. We believe that our level of resources, which include cash on hand, available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our accounts receivable securitization program and funds provided by operations, will be adequate to fund these capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, payments for current and future restructuring activities, and our working capital requirements for the next twelve months. Our $250.0 million U.S. asset backed securitization program and our $200.0 million foreign asset backed securitization program expire, however, in March 2010 and we may be unable to renew one or both of them. Should we desire to consummate significant additional acquisition opportunities or undertake significant additional expansion activities, our capital needs would increase and could possibly result in our need to increase available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities or access public or private debt and equity markets. There can be no assurance, however, that we would be successful in raising additional debt or equity on terms that we would consider acceptable. Our contractual obligations for short and long term debt arrangements, future interest on notes payable and long term debt, future minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating lease arrangements estimated future benefit plan payments and capital commitments as of August 31, 2009 are summarized below. We do not participate in, or secure financing for, any unconsolidated limited purpose entities. We generally do not enter into non cancelable purchase orders for materials until we receive a corresponding purchase commitment from our customer. Non cancelable purchase orders do not typically extend beyond the normal lead time of several weeks at most. Purchase orders beyond this time frame are typically cancelable. Payments due by period (in thousands) Less than 1 After 5 Total year 1 3 years 4 5 years years Contractual Obligations Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations $ 1,234,448 $ 197,575 $ 340,051 $ $ 696,822 Future interest on notes payable and long term debt 465,675 61,946 123,881 115,631 164,217 Operating lease obligations 187,343 51,466 65,972 43,846 26,059 Estimated future benefit payments to plan 57,066 4,679 9,556 10,197 32,634 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,944,532 $ 315,666 $ 539,460 $ 169,674 $ 919,732 (a) During the first fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company committed $10.0 million to an independent private equity limited partnership which invests in companies that address resource limits in energy, water and materials (commonly referred to as the CleanTech sector). Of that amount, the Company has invested $2.0 million at August 31, 2009. The remaining commitment of $8.0 million is callable over the next five years by the general partner. As the timing of capital calls have no specified dates, this commitment has been excluded from the above table as we cannot currently determine when such commitment calls will occur. 53 Table of Contents (b) At August 31, 2009, we have $4.3 million recorded as a current liability for uncertain tax positions under FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of long term payments, or the amount by which our liability will increase or decrease over time; therefore, the long term portion of our FIN 48 liability of $78.3 million has not been included in the contractual obligations table. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Risks We transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. All derivative instruments are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their respective fair market values in accordance with SFAS 133. Except for certain foreign currency contracts, with a notional amount outstanding at August 31, 2009 of $29.3 million and a fair value of $1.0 million, which are recorded in prepaid and other current assets at August 31, 2009, we have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required for the transactions to qualify as accounting hedges and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The aggregate notional amount of outstanding contracts at August 31, 2009 that do not qualify as accounting hedges was $841.0 million. The fair value of these contracts amounted to a $9.9 million asset recorded in prepaid and other current assets and a $5.5 million liability recorded in accrued expenses on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The forward contracts will generally expire in less than four months, with five months being the maximum term of the contracts outstanding at August 31, 2009. Upon expiration of the contracts, the change in fair value will be reflected in cost of revenue on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The forward contracts are denominated in British pounds, Chinese yuan renminbi, Euros, Hungarian forints, Indian Rupee, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgits, Mexican pesos, Polish Zloty, Singapore dollars, Taiwanese dollars and U.S. dollars. Interest Rate Risk A portion of our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our domestic investment portfolio. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. We place cash and cash equivalents with various major financial institutions. We protect our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. We mitigate these risks by generally investing in investment grade securities and by frequently positioning the portfolio to try to respond appropriately to a reduction in credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository to levels below the credit ratings dictated by our investment policy. The portfolio typically includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to ensure portfolio liquidity. At August 31, 2009, there were no significant outstanding investments. We pay interest on several of our outstanding borrowings at interest rates that fluctuate based upon changes in various base interest rates. There were $512.8 million in borrowings outstanding under these facilities at August 31, 2009. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 8 Notes Payable, Long Term Debt and Long Term Lease Obligations to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our outstanding debt obligations. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap related to $100.0 million of our variable rate debt. The swap is accounted for as a cash flow hedge under SFAS 133. The interest rate swap transaction effectively locks in a fixed interest rate for variable rate interest payments that are expected to be made from January 28, 2009 through January 28, 2010. Under the terms of the swap, we will pay a fixed rate and will receive a variable rate based on the one month USD LIBOR rate plus a credit spread. 54 Table of Contents 
 
