Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview We are one of the leading providers of worldwide electronic manufacturing services and solutions. We provide comprehensive electronics design, production, product management and aftermarket services to companies in the aerospace, automotive, computing, consumer, defense, industrial, instrumentation, medical, networking, peripherals, solar, storage and telecommunications industries. The industry in which we operate is composed of companies that provide a range of manufacturing and design services to companies that utilize electronics components. The industry experienced rapid change and growth through the 1990s as an increasing number of companies chose to outsource an increasing portion, and, in some cases, all of their manufacturing requirements. In mid 2001, the industrys revenue declined as a result of significant cut backs in customer production requirements, which was consistent with the overall downturn in the technology sector at the time. In response to this downturn in the technology sector, we implemented restructuring programs to reduce our cost structure and further align our manufacturing capacity with the geographic production demands of our customers. Industry revenues generally began to stabilize in 2003 and companies turned to outsourcing versus internal manufacturing. In addition, the number of industries serviced, as well as the market penetration in certain industries, by electronic manufacturing service providers has increased over the past several years. In mid 2008, the industrys revenue declined when a deteriorating macro economic environment resulted in illiquidity in the overall credit markets and a significant economic downturn in the North American, European and Asian markets. In response to this downturn, we implemented additional restructuring programs to reduce our cost structure and further align our manufacturing capacity with the geographic production demands of our customers. Though significant uncertainty remains regarding the extent and timing of the economic recovery, we continue to see signs of stabilization as the overall credit markets have significantly improved and it appears that the global economic stimulus programs put in place are having a positive impact, particularly in China. We will continue to monitor the current economic environment and its potential impact on both the customers that we serve as well as our end markets and closely manage our costs and capital resources so that we can respond appropriately as circumstances continue to change. Also, as a result of recent economic conditions, some of our customers have moved a portion of their manufacturing from us in order to more fully utilize their excess internal manufacturing capacity. This movement, and possible future movements, may negatively impact our results of operations. At August 31, 2010 our reportable operating segments consisted of three segments Consumer, EMS and AMS. On September 1, 2010, we re organized our business into the following three groups: DMS, EI and HVS. Our DMS group is composed of dedicated resources to manage higher complexity global products in regulated industries and bring materials and process technologies including design and aftermarket services to our global 38 Table of Contents customers. Our EI and HVS groups offer integrated global supply chain solutions designed to provide cost effective solutions for our customers. Our EI group is focused on our customers primarily in the computing and storage, networking and telecommunication sectors. Our HVS group is focused on the particular needs of the consumer products industry, including mobility, set top boxes and peripheral products such as printers and point of sale terminals. We derive revenue principally from the product sales of electronic equipment built to customer specifications. We also derive revenue to a lesser extent from aftermarket services, design services and excess inventory sales. Revenue from product sales and excess inventory sales is generally recognized, net of estimated product return costs, when goods are shipped; title and risk of ownership have passed; the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and recoverability is reasonably assured. Aftermarket service related revenue is recognized upon completion of the services. Design service related revenue is generally recognized upon completion and acceptance by the respective customer. We assume no significant obligations after product shipment. Our cost of revenue includes the cost of electronic components and other materials that comprise the products we manufacture; the cost of labor and manufacturing overhead; and adjustments for excess and obsolete inventory. As a provider of turnkey manufacturing services, we are responsible for procuring components and other materials. This requires us to commit significant working capital to our operations and to manage the purchasing, receiving, inspection and stocking of materials. Although we bear the risk of fluctuations in the cost of materials and excess scrap, we periodically negotiate cost of materials adjustments with our customers. Net revenue from each product that we manufacture consists of an element based on the costs of materials in that product and an element based on the labor and manufacturing overhead costs allocated to that product. We refer to the portion of the sales price of a product that is based on materials costs as material based revenue, and to the portion of the sales price of a product that is based on labor and manufacturing overhead costs as manufacturing based revenue. Our gross margin for any product depends on the mix between the cost of materials in the product and the cost of labor and manufacturing overhead allocated to the product. We typically realize higher gross margins on manufacturing based revenue than we do on materials based revenue. As we gain experience in manufacturing a product, we usually achieve increased efficiencies, which result in lower labor and manufacturing overhead costs for that product. Our operating results are impacted by the level of capacity utilization of manufacturing facilities; indirect labor costs; and selling, general and administrative expenses. Operating income margins have generally improved during periods of high production volume and high capacity utilization. During periods of low production volume, we generally have idle capacity and reduced operating income margins. We have consistently utilized advanced circuit design, production design and manufacturing technologies to meet the needs of our customers. To support this effort, our engineering staff focuses on developing and refining design and manufacturing technologies to meet specific needs of specific customers. Most of the expenses associated with these customer specific efforts are reflected in our cost of revenue. In addition, our engineers engage in RD of new technologies that apply generally to our operations. The expenses of these RD activities are reflected in the research and development line item in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. An important element of our strategy is the expansion of our global production facilities. The majority of our revenue and materials costs worldwide are denominated in U.S. dollars, while our labor and utility costs in operations outside the U.S. are denominated in local currencies. We economically hedge these local currency costs, based on our evaluation of the potential exposure as compared to the cost of the hedge, through the purchase of foreign exchange contracts. Changes in the fair market value of such hedging instruments are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Risk Factors We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue and upon their growth, viability and financial stability. A significant reduction in sales to any of our large customers or a customer exerting significant pricing and margin pressures on us would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the past, some of our customers have terminated their manufacturing arrangements with us or have significantly reduced or delayed the volume of manufacturing services ordered from us. There can be no assurance that present or future customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of manufacturing services 39 Table of Contents ordered from us. Any such termination of a manufacturing relationship or change, reduction or delay in orders could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See Risk Factors Because we depend on a limited number of customers, a reduction in sales to any one of our customers could cause a significant decline in our revenue , Risk Factors Most of our customers do not commit to long term production schedules, which makes it difficult for us to schedule production and capital expenditures, and to maximize the efficiency of our manufacturing capacity, Risk Factors Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities, delay production or change their sourcing strategy and Note 12 Concentration of Risk and Segment Data to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summary of Results Net revenues for fiscal year 2010 increased approximately 14.8% to $13.4 billion compared to $11.7 billion for fiscal year 2009 largely due to increases in all of our sectors, except for our telecommunications and other sectors (which includes our automotive business and certain of our other businesses). These increases are primarily due to increased revenue from existing customers and programs as our customers confidence in their markets strengthen and their end customers demand levels increase, as well as new customer wins and new program wins with existing customers. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan to better align our manufacturing capacity in certain geographies and to reduce our worldwide workforce by approximately 3,000 employees in order to reduce operating expenses (the 2009 Restructuring Plan). These restructuring activities were intended to address market conditions and properly size our manufacturing facilities to increase the efficiencies of our operations. Based on the analysis completed to date, we currently expect to recognize approximately $64.0 million in pre tax restructuring and impairment costs and reduce our worldwide headcount by a total of approximately 4,000 employees which costs and headcount reduction were recognized primarily over the course of fiscal years 2009 and 2010. In addition, we recorded a valuation allowance of $14.8 million on certain net deferred tax assets related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan. The restructuring charges include pre tax employee severance and termination benefit costs, contract termination costs and other related restructuring costs. The impairment charges include pre tax fixed asset impairment costs, as well as valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets. This information will be subject to the finalization of timetables for the transition of functions, consultation with employees and their representatives as well as the statutory severance requirements of the particular legal jurisdictions impacted, and the amount and timing of the actual charges may vary due to a variety of factors. Based on the ongoing assessment of market conditions, it is possible that we may perform additional restructuring activities in the future. For further discussion of this restructuring program and the restructuring and impairment costs recognized, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Restructuring and Impairment Charges and Note 9 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See also Risk Factors We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal year ended August 31, certain key operating results and other financial information (in thousands, except per share data). Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net revenue $ 13,409,411 $ 11,684,538 $ 12,779,703 Gross profit $ 1,004,144 $ 718,815 $ 867,801 Operating income (loss) $ 327,566 $ (910,201 ) $ 251,397 Net income (loss) attributable to Jabil Circuit, Inc $ 168,840 $ (1,165,212 ) $ 133,892 Income (loss) per share basic $ 0.79 $ (5.63 ) $ 0.64 Income (loss) per share diluted $ 0.78 $ (5.63 ) $ 0.64 40 Table of Contents Key Performance Indicators Management regularly reviews financial and non financial performance indicators to assess the Companys operating results. The following table sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, certain of managements key financial performance indicators. Three Months Ended August 31, May 31, February 28, November 30, 2010 2010 2010 2009 Sales cycle 17 days 16 days 17 days 16 days Inventory turns 7 turns 7 turns 7 turns 8 turns Days in trade accounts receivable 33 days 33 days 35 days 41 days Days in inventory 53 days 50 days 51 days 45 days Days in accounts payable 69 days 67 days 69 days 70 days Three Months Ended August 31, May 31, February 28, November 30, 2009 2009 2009 2008 Sales cycle 16 days 22 days 20 days 24 days Inventory turns 9 turns 8 turns 8 turns 8 turns Days in trade accounts receivable 41 days 40 days 36 days 44 days Days in inventory 42 days 46 days 46 days 46 days Days in accounts payable 67 days 64 days 62 days 66 days The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in trade accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators. During the three months ended August 31, 2010, days in trade accounts receivable remained consistent at 33 days as compared to the prior sequential quarter. During the three months ended May 31, 2010, days in trade accounts receivable decreased two days to 33 days as compared to the prior sequential quarter as a result of the sale of trade accounts receivable under the uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, timing of sales and focused efforts on cash collection during the quarter. During the three months ended February 28, 2010, days in trade accounts receivable decreased six days to 35 days from the prior sequential quarter as a result of the timing of sales and focused efforts on cash collection during the quarter, as well as related seasonality factors. During the three months ended November 30, 2009 days in trade accounts receivable remained consistent at 41 days as compared to the prior sequential quarter. During the three months ended August 31, 2010, days in inventory increased three days to 53 days and inventory turns remained consistent at seven turns as compared to the prior sequential quarter primarily due to increased inventory levels as a result of the following: (1) positioning ourselves to meet the upcoming quarterly demand levels and (2) carrying higher levels of certain raw materials in order to meet customer demand due to the constrained materials environment which has caused material component lead times to be extended. For further discussion of material shortages see Risk Factors We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components that are critical to our manufacturing processes. A shortage of these components or an increase in their price could interrupt our operations and reduce our profits, increase our inventory carrying costs, increase our risk of exposure to inventory obsolescence and cause us to purchase components of a lesser quality. During the three months ended May 31, 2010, days in inventory decreased one day to 50 days and inventory turns remained constant at seven turns as compared to the prior sequential quarter primarily due to increased sales during the period. During the three months ended February 28, 2010, days in inventory increased six days to 51 days and inventory turns decreased one turn to seven turns as compared to the prior sequential quarter as a result of a ramp up of inventory levels to support new business wins, as well as raw material shortages due to an unforeseen constrained materials environment which caused material component lead times to be extended. During the three months ended November 30, 2009, days in inventory increased three days to 45 days and inventory turns decreased one turn to eight turns as compared to the 41 Table of Contents prior sequential quarter primarily due to increased inventory levels to support higher demand for consumer products during the holiday selling season. During the three months ended August 31, 2010, days in accounts payable increased two days to 69 days from the prior sequential quarter. During the three months ended May 31, 2010, days in accounts payable decreased two days to 67 days as compared to the prior sequential quarter. During the three months ended February 28, 2010, days in accounts payable decreased one day to 69 days as compared to the prior sequential quarter. During the three months ended November 30, 2010, days in accounts payable increased three days to 70 days as compared to the prior sequential quarter. These fluctuations in days in accounts payables during fiscal year 2010 were primarily a result of timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the respective quarters. The sales cycle was 17 days during the three months ended August 31, 2010, 16 days during the three months ended May 31, 2010, 17 days during the three months ended February 28, 2010 and 16 days during the three months ended November 30, 2009. The changes in the sales cycle are due to the changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable and inventory that are discussed above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect our reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various other factors and circumstances. Management believes that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may vary from these estimates and assumptions under different future circumstances. We have identified the following critical accounting policies that affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. For further discussion of our significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from the product sales of electronic equipment built to customer specifications. We also derive revenue to a lesser extent from aftermarket services, design services and excess inventory sales. Revenue from product sales and excess inventory sales is generally recognized, net of estimated product return costs, when goods are shipped; title and risk of ownership have passed; the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and recoverability is reasonably assured. Aftermarket service related revenue is recognized upon completion of the services. Design service related revenue is generally recognized upon completion and acceptance by the respective customer. We assume no significant obligations after product shipment. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts related to receivables not expected to be collected from our customers. This allowance is based on managements assessment of specific customer balances, considering the age of receivables and financial stability of the customer. If there is an adverse change in the financial condition and circumstances of our customers, or if actual defaults are higher than provided for, an addition to the allowance may be necessary. Inventory Valuation We purchase inventory based on forecasted demand and record inventory at the lower of cost or market. Management regularly assesses inventory valuation based on current and forecasted usage, customer inventory related contractual obligations and other lower of cost or market considerations. If actual market conditions or our customers product demands are less favorable than those projected, additional valuation adjustments may be necessary. 42 Table of Contents Long Lived Assets We review property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of property, plant and equipment is measured by comparing its carrying value to the undiscounted projected cash flows that the asset(s) or asset group(s) are expected to generate. If the carrying amount of an asset or an asset group is not recoverable, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset over its respective fair value, which is generally determined as either the present value of estimated future cash flows or the appraised value. The impairment analysis is based on significant assumptions of future results made by management, including revenue and cash flow projections. Circumstances that may lead to impairment of property, plant and equipment include unforeseen decreases in future performance or industry demand and the restructuring of our operations resulting from a change in our business strategy or adverse economic conditions. For further discussion of our current restructuring program, refer to Note 9 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Restructuring and Impairment Charges. We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill, in connection with business acquisitions. Estimated useful lives of amortizable intangible assets are determined by management based on an assessment of the period over which the asset is expected to contribute to future cash flows. The allocation of amortizable intangible assets impacts the amounts allocable to goodwill. We perform a goodwill impairment analysis using the two step method on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level, which we have determined to be consistent with our operating segments, by comparing the reporting units carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair market value of the reporting unit. We consistently determine the fair market value of our reporting units based on an average weighting of both projected discounted future results and the use of comparative market multiples. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and a second test is performed to measure the amount of loss, if any. We completed our annual impairment test for goodwill during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 and determined that the fair value of our reporting units are substantially in excess of the carrying values and that no impairment existed as of the date of the impairment test. Restructuring and Impairment Charges We have recognized restructuring and impairment charges related to reductions in workforce, re sizing and closure of certain facilities and the transition of production from certain facilities into other new and existing facilities. These charges were recorded pursuant to formal plans developed and approved by management and our Board of Directors. The recognition of restructuring and impairment charges requires that we make certain judgments and estimates regarding the nature, timing and amount of costs associated with these plans. The estimates of future liabilities may change, requiring additional restructuring and impairment charges or the reduction of liabilities already recorded. At the end of each reporting period, we evaluate the remaining accrued balances to ensure that no excess accruals are retained and the utilization of the provisions are for their intended purpose in accordance with the restructuring programs. For further discussion of our restructuring programs, refer to Note 9 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Restructuring and Impairment Charges. Retirement Benefits We have pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities in certain foreign locations that are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial valuations require management to make certain judgments and estimates of discount rates, compensation rate increases and return on plan assets. We evaluate these assumptions on a regular basis taking into consideration current market conditions and historical market data. The discount rate is used to state expected future cash flows at a present value on the measurement date. This rate represents the market rate for 43 Table of Contents high quality fixed income investments. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension expense. When considering the expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets, we take into account current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on plan assets. Other assumptions include demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover. For further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, refer to Note 8 Postretirement and Other Employee Benefits to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes We estimate our income tax provision in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, a process that includes estimating exposures related to examinations by taxing authorities. We must also make judgments regarding the ability to realize the deferred tax assets. The carrying value of our net deferred tax assets is based on our belief that it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions to realize these deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance has been established for deferred tax assets that we do not believe meet the more likely than not criteria. We assess whether an uncertain tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return meets the threshold for recognition and measurement in the consolidated financial statements. Our judgments regarding future taxable income as well as tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return may change due to changes in market conditions, changes in tax laws or other factors. If our assumptions and consequently our estimates change in the future, the valuation allowances and or tax reserves established may be increased or decreased, resulting in a respective increase or decrease in income tax expense. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) completed its field examination of our tax returns for the fiscal years 2003 through 2005 and issued a Revenue Agents Report (RAR) on April 30, 2010 proposing adjustments primarily related to: (1) certain costs that we treated as corporate expenses and that the IRS proposes be charged out to our foreign affiliates and (2) certain purported intangible values the IRS felt were transferred to certain of our foreign subsidiaries free of charge. If the IRS ultimately prevails in its positions, our additional income tax payment due for the fiscal years 2003 through 2005 would be approximately $70.2 million before utilization of any tax attributes arising in periods subsequent to fiscal year 2005. In addition, the IRS will likely make similar claims in future audits with respect to these types of transactions (at this time, determination of the additional income tax due for these later years is not practicable). Also, the IRS has proposed interest and penalties with respect to fiscal years 2003 through 2005 and we anticipate the IRS may seek to impose interest and penalties in subsequent years with respect to the same types of issues. We disagree with the proposed adjustments and intend to vigorously contest this matter through applicable IRS and judicial procedures, as appropriate. As the final resolution of the proposed adjustments remains uncertain, we continue to provide for the uncertain tax position based on the more likely than not standards. Accordingly, we did not record any significant additional tax liabilities related to this RAR on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for fiscal year 2010. While the resolution of the issues may result in tax liabilities, interest and penalties, which are significantly higher than the amounts provided for this matter, we currently believe that the resolution will not have a material effect on our financial position or liquidity. Despite this belief, an unfavorable resolution, particularly if the IRS successfully asserts similar claims for later years, could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition (particularly in the quarter in which any adjustment is recorded or any tax is due or paid). For further discussion related to our income taxes, refer to Note 4 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Risk Factors We are subject to the risk of increased taxes. Stock Based Compensation We began recognizing stock based compensation expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations on September 1, 2005. The fair value of options granted prior to September 1, 2005 were valued using the Black Scholes model while the stock appreciation rights granted after this date were valued using a lattice model. Option pricing models require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the option or stock appreciation right, risk free rate, expected dividend yield and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Judgment is also required in estimating the number of stock awards that are expected to vest as a result of satisfaction of time based vesting schedules or the achievement of certain performance conditions. If actual results or future changes in estimates differ significantly from our current estimates, stock based compensation expense could 44 Table of Contents increase or decrease. For further discussion of our stock based compensation, refer to Note 11 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 15 New Accounting Pronouncements to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of net revenue: Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 92.5 93.8 93.2 Gross profit 7.5 6.2 6.8 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 4.4 4.3 3.8 Research and development 0.2 0.2 0.3 Amortization of intangibles 0.2 0.3 0.3 Restructuring and impairment charges 0.1 0.4 0.4 Goodwill impairment charges 8.8 0.0 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 0.2 Operating income (loss) 2.4 (7.8 ) 2.0 Other expense 0.0 0.2 0.1 Interest income (0.0 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Interest expense 0.6 0.7 0.8 Income (loss) before income tax 1.8 (8.6 ) 1.2 Income tax expense 0.5 1.4 0.2 Net income (loss) 1.3 (10.0 ) 1.0 Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of income tax expense 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net income (loss) attributable to Jabil Circuit, Inc 1.3 % (10.0 )% 1.0 % Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 Net Revenue. Our net revenue increased 14.8% to $13.4 billion for fiscal year 2010, up from $11.7 billion in fiscal year 2009. Specific increases include a 38% increase in the sale of instrumentation and medical products; a 16% increase in the sale of networking products; an 18% increase in the sale of mobility products; a 12% increase in the sale of aftermarket services; a 7% increase in the sale of digital home office products; and a 3% increase in the sale of computing and storage products. These increases are primarily due to increased revenue from existing customers and programs as our customers confidence in their markets strengthen and their end customers demand levels increase, as well as new customer wins and new program wins with existing customers. These increases were partially offset by a 3% decrease in the sale of telecommunications products and a 14% decrease in the sale of other products primarily due to our decision to largely exit the automotive sector in conjunction with the sale of our subsidiary Jabil Circuit Automotive, SAS. Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition. Accordingly, we do not differentiate or report separately revenue 45 Table of Contents increases generated by acquisitions as opposed to existing business. In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, revenue by industry sector expressed as a percentage of net revenue. The distribution of revenue across our industry sectors has fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, as a result of numerous factors, including but not limited to the following: fluctuations in customer demand as a result of the recent recessionary conditions and current, relatively weak recovery (despite our relatively recent increase in revenue due to increases from existing customer programs, new customer wins and new program wins with existing customers); efforts to de emphasize the economic performance of certain sectors, most specifically, our former automotive sector; seasonality in our business; and business growth from new and existing customers, including production of new products in the mobility sector. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, we began to report the display and peripheral sectors as a combined sector called digital home office. In addition, the automotive sector is no longer reported separately and has been combined in the other sector. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 2009 2008 EMS Computing and storage 10 % 11 % 13 % Instrumentation and medical 23 % 19 % 18 % Networking 17 % 17 % 21 % Telecommunications 5 % 6 % 6 % Other 4 % 5 % 6 % Total EMS 59 % 58 % 64 % Consumer Digital home office 20 % 16 % 19 % Mobility 15 % 20 % 12 % Total Consumer 35 % 36 % 31 % AMS 6 % 6 % 5 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Foreign source revenue represented 84.7% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2010 and 83.8% of net revenue for fiscal year 2009. We currently expect our foreign source revenue to remain relatively consistent as compared to current levels over the course of the next 12 months. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased to $1.0 billion (7.5% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2010 from $718.8 million (6.2% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2009. The increase in gross profit on an absolute basis and as a percentage of net revenue from the prior fiscal year was primarily due to increased revenue from existing customers and programs as our customers confidence in their markets strengthen and their end customers demand levels increase as well as new customer wins and new program wins with existing customers which allow us to better utilize capacity and absorb fixed costs. Further, we have realized certain cost savings associated with initiatives that we commenced in fiscal year 2009 to reduce our cost structure in order to better align with lower demand levels and increased capacity utilization which allows us to better leverage our cost structure. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $589.7 million (4.4% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2010 from $495.9 million (4.3% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2009. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses on an absolute basis and as a percentage of net revenue from the prior fiscal year was largely due to increases in stock based compensation expense of $60.6 million primarily due to a change in the estimated vesting of performance based restricted stock awards and incremental expense recognized related to the modification of certain existing equity awards to include retirement eligibility provisions, $19.6 million related to additional salary and bonus expense due to increased headcount and 46 Table of Contents results of operations in the current fiscal year and $13.5 million related to professional fees associated with multiple internal strategic and cost saving initiatives. Research and Development. Research and development (RD) expenses for fiscal year 2010 increased to $28.1 million (0.2% of net revenue) from $27.3 million (0.2% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2009. The increase is attributed primarily due to our increased focus on vertical integration capabilities in our mobility sector and increased capabilities and proficiencies in digital home office and printer markets. Amortization of Intangibles. We recorded $25.9 million of amortization of intangibles in fiscal year 2010 as compared to $31.0 million in fiscal year 2009. The decrease is primarily attributable to certain intangible assets that became fully amortized since August 31, 2009. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Acquisitions and Expansion below, Note 1(f) Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring and Impairment Charges. a. 2009 Restructuring Plan In conjunction with the 2009 Restructuring Plan, we currently expect to recognize approximately $64.0 million in total restructuring and impairment costs, excluding valuation allowances of $14.8 million on certain deferred tax assets, which has been recognized primarily over the course of fiscal years 2009 and 2010. Of this expected total, we charged $7.7 million and $53.7 million of restructuring and impairment costs during the 12 months ended August 31, 2010 and August 31, 2009, respectively, to our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The charges related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan during fiscal year 2010 include approximately $3.7 million related to employee severance and termination benefit costs, $3.4 million related to lease commitments and $0.6 million related to fixed asset impairments. The $61.4 million of restructuring and impairment charges related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan incurred through August 31, 2010 include cash costs totaling $54.4 million, of which $32.9 million was paid in fiscal year 2010. The cash costs of approximately $54.4 million consist of employee severance and termination benefit costs of approximately $50.8 million, lease commitment costs of approximately $3.4 million and other restructuring costs of approximately $0.2 million. Non cash costs of approximately $7.0 million primarily represent fixed asset impairment charges related to our restructuring activities. At August 31, 2010, accrued liabilities of approximately $1.2 million related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan are expected to be paid over the next 12 months. Upon its completion, the 2009 Restructuring Plan is expected to yield annualized cost savings of approximately $55.0 million. The majority of these annual cost savings are expected to be reflected as a reduction in cost of revenue, with a small portion being reflected as a reduction of selling, general and administrative expense. These expected annualized cost savings reflect a reduction in employee expense of approximately $41.8 million, a reduction in depreciation expense of approximately $5.9 million, a reduction in lease commitment costs of approximately $0.1 million, a reduction of other manufacturing costs of approximately $3.8 million and a reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses of approximately $3.4 million. Of the $55.0 million of expected annualized cost savings, we have realized a cumulative cost savings of approximately $46.0 million by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. As part of the 2009 Restructuring Plan, we have determined that it was more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets would not be realized as a result of the contemplated restructuring activities. Therefore, we recorded a valuation allowance of $14.8 million on net deferred tax assets related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan. The valuation allowance is excluded from the restructuring and impairment charge of $61.4 million incurred through August 31, 2010 as it was recorded through income tax expense on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 47 Table of Contents b. 2006 Restructuring Plan Upon the approval by our Board of Directors, we initiated a restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 (the 2006 Restructuring Plan). We have substantially completed restructuring activities under this plan with certain contract termination costs to be incurred through fiscal year 2011. We recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $0.5 million during fiscal year 2010 and a reversal of restructuring and impairment costs of $1.8 million in fiscal year 2009. The restructuring and impairment costs for fiscal year 2010 primarily include additional lease commitment charges. At August 31, 2010, liabilities of approximately $1.0 million related to the 2006 Restructuring Plan are expected to be paid out over the next 12 months. The remaining liability of $2.1 million relates primarily to the charge for certain lease commitments and employee severance and termination benefits payments. As of August 31, 2010, as a result of the restructuring activities related to the 2006 Restructuring Plan, we expect to avoid annual costs of approximately $151.5 million that would otherwise have been incurred if the restructuring activities had not been completed. The expected avoided annual costs consist of a reduction in employee related expenses of approximately $137.7 million, a reduction in depreciation expense associated with impaired fixed assets of approximately $8.5 million, and a reduction in rent expense associated with leased buildings that have been vacated of approximately $5.3 million. The majority of these annual cost savings will be reflected as a reduction in cost of revenue, with a small portion being reflected as a reduction in selling, general and administrative expense. These annual costs savings are expected to be partially offset by decreased revenues associated with certain products that are approaching the end of life stage; decreased revenues as a result of shifting production to operations located in lower cost regions where competitive environmental pressures require that we pass those cost savings onto our customers; and incremental employee related costs expected to be incurred by those operations to which the production will be shifted. After considering these cost savings offsets, we began to realize the full net annualized cost savings of approximately $39.0 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. For further discussion of the restructuring programs, see Note 9 Restructuring and Impairment Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Charges. We recorded non cash goodwill impairment charges of $1.0 billion for the full fiscal year ended August 31, 2009 (of which the entire $1.0 billion charge was incurred in the first two quarters) to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill to its estimated fair value based upon the results of two interim impairment tests conducted during the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2009. We performed these impairment tests based upon a combination of factors, including a significant and sustained decline in our market capitalization below our carrying value, the deteriorating macro economic environment, which resulted in a significant decline in customer demand, and illiquidity in the overall credit markets. After recognition of these charges, no goodwill remained with the Consumer and EMS reporting units, respectively, and approximately $25.1 million remained with the AMS reporting unit. For further discussion of goodwill impairment charges recorded, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Long Lived Assets and Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Loss on Disposal of Subsidiaries. On October 27, 2009, we sold the operations of Jabil Circuit Automotive, SAS, an automotive electronic manufacturing subsidiary located in Western Europe to an unrelated third party. In connection with this sale, we recorded a loss on disposition of approximately $15.7 million, which includes approximately $4.2 million in transaction costs incurred in connection with the sale. On July 16, 2010, we sold our operations in Italy as well as our remaining operations in France to an unrelated third party. Divested operations, inclusive of four sites and approximately 1,500 employees, had net revenues and an operating loss of $298.6 million and $39.6 million, respectively from the beginning of the 2010 fiscal year through the date of disposition. In connection with this transaction, we provided an aggregate $25.0 million working capital loan to the disposed operations and agreed to provide for the aggregate potential reimbursement of up to $10.0 million in restructuring costs dependent upon the occurrence of certain future events. The working capital loan bears interest on a quarterly basis at LIBOR plus 500 basis points and is repayable over approximately 44 months dependent upon 48 Table of Contents the achievement of certain specified quarterly financial results of the operations being disposed, which if not met would result in the forgiveness of all or a portion of the loan. Accordingly, dependent on the occurrence of such future events, we may incur up to an additional $28.5 million of charges. As a result of this sale, we recorded a loss on disposition of $8.9 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, which included transaction related costs of $1.7 million and a charge of $6.5 million in order to record the working capital loan at its respective fair market value at August 31, 2010 based upon a discounted cash flow analysis. These costs are recorded to loss on disposal of subsidiaries on our Consolidated Statements of Operations, which is a component of operating income. Other Expense. We recorded other expense totaling $4.1 million and $20.1 million for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease in other expense for fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to the recognition of a $10.5 million loss on the extinguishment of $294.9 million of our 5.875% Senior Notes and a $4.2 million loss on the impairment of a note receivable in fiscal year 2009 as well as a decrease in the loss on the sale of accounts receivable under our asset backed securitization program of $1.4 million in fiscal year 2010 which was primarily due to a decrease in borrowing costs. For further discussion of our accounts receivable securitization program, see Note 2 Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Income. Interest income decreased to $3.0 million in fiscal year 2010 from $7.4 million in fiscal year 2009. The decrease was primarily due to lower overall interest rates during fiscal year 2010. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased to $79.2 million in fiscal year 2010 from $82.2 million in fiscal year 2009. The decrease was primarily due to lower overall interest rates during fiscal year 2010. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of 30.9% for fiscal year 2010, as compared to an effective tax rate of (16.0)% for fiscal year 2009. The effective tax rate differs from the previous period due to the impairment of non deductible goodwill and the corresponding valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets that were no longer more likely than not to be realized in fiscal year 2009. The tax rate is predominantly a function of the mix of tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Most of our international operations have historically been taxed at a lower rate than in the U.S., primarily due to tax incentives granted to our sites in Brazil, China, Hungary, Malaysia, Poland, Singapore and Vietnam. The material tax incentives expire at various dates through 2020. Such tax incentives are subject to conditions with which we expect to continue to comply. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Income Taxes, Risk Factors We are subject to the risk of increased taxes and Note 4 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2008 Net Revenue. Our net revenue decreased 8.6% to $11.7 billion for fiscal year 2009, down from $12.8 billion in fiscal year 2008. Specific decreases include a 21% decrease in the sale of digital home office products; a 27% decrease in the sale of networking products; an 18% decrease in the sale of computing and storage products; a 9% decrease in the sale of telecommunication products; a 5% decrease in the sale of instrumentation and medical products; and a 28% decrease in the sale of other products. These decreases were largely driven by reduced production levels as a result of softened customer demand due to the weakened macro economic environment. Specific increases include an 8% increase in aftermarket services and a 50% increase in the sale of mobility products predominately related to the production of new products with an existing customer within the sector. Foreign source revenue represented 83.8% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2009 and 79.6% of net revenue for fiscal year 2008. For further discussion of our net revenues, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 Net Revenue. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased to $718.8 million (6.2% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2009 from $867.8 million (6.8% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2008. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue from the prior fiscal year was primarily due to our revenues decreasing at a higher rate than certain of our fixed costs 49 Table of Contents as we continued to seek to reduce our cost structure in order to align with lower demand levels and our excess capacity given macro economic conditions that existed. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $495.9 million (4.3% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2009 from $491.3 million (3.8% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2008. On an absolute dollar basis, selling general and administrative expenses remained relatively constant. Certain of our selling, general and administrative costs are generally necessary to support our business and the need for such support does not immediately change as a result of our revenues increasing or decreasing. On a percentage basis, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, therefore, was primarily due to our revenues decreasing at a higher rate than certain of our selling, general and administrative costs as compared to the 12 months ended August 31, 2008. Research and Development. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2009 decreased to $27.3 million (0.2% of net revenue) from $33.0 million (0.3% of net revenue) for fiscal year 2008. The decrease is attributed primarily to the de emphasis of original design manufacture in certain consumer sectors. Amortization of Intangibles. We recorded $31.0 million of amortization of intangibles in fiscal year 2009 as compared to $37.3 million in fiscal year 2008. The decrease was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets that became fully amortized since August 31, 2008. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Acquisitions and Expansion below, Note 1(f) Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring and Impairment Charges. a. 2009 Restructuring Plan We charged $53.7 million in restructuring and impairment charges during fiscal year 2009 related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan. These charges related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan include $47.1 million related to employee severance and termination benefit costs, $0.1 million related to lease commitments, $6.4 million related to fixed asset impairments and $0.1 million related to other restructuring costs. These $53.7 million restructuring and impairment charges related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan incurred through August 31, 2009 include cash costs totaling $47.3 million, of which $19.2 million was paid in fiscal year 2009. The cash costs of $47.3 million consist of employee severance and termination benefit costs of approximately $47.1 million, $0.1 million related to lease commitments, and approximately $0.1 million related to other restructuring costs. Non cash costs of approximately $6.4 million primarily represent fixed asset impairment charges related to our restructuring activities. As part of the 2009 Restructuring Plan, we have determined that it was more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets would not be realized as a result of the contemplated restructuring activities. Therefore, we recorded a valuation allowance of $13.1 million on deferred tax assets as a result of the 2009 Restructuring Plan as of August 31, 2009. The valuation allowances are excluded from the restructuring and impairment charge of $53.7 million for fiscal year 2009 as they were recorded through the provision for income taxes on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. For further discussion of this restructuring program, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 Restructuring and Impairment Charges. b. 2006 Restructuring Plan We recorded a reversal of restructuring and impairment costs of $1.8 million during fiscal year 2009 and a charge of restructuring and impairment costs of $54.8 million in fiscal year 2008 related to the 2006 Restructuring Plan. The reversal of restructuring and impairment costs for fiscal year 2009 include, $2.7 million related to less employee severance and termination benefit costs than originally anticipated, offset by additional lease commitment charges of $0.9 million. 50 Table of Contents For further discussion of this restructuring program, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 Restructuring and Impairment Charges. Goodwill Impairment Charges. We recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge in the amount of $1.0 billion for fiscal year 2009 to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill to its estimated fair value based upon the results of two interim impairment tests conducted during the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2009. For further discussion of goodwill impairment charges recorded, see Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Long Lived Assets and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 Goodwill Impairment Charge. Other Expense. We recorded other expense totaling $20.1 million and $11.9 million for the fiscal years ending August 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in other expense was primarily due to recognizing a loss of $10.5 million on the extinguishment of $294.9 million of our 5.875% Senior Notes and recording a loss on the impairment of a note receivable for $4.2 million. This increase was primarily offset by a decrease in the loss on the sale of accounts receivable under our asset backed securitization program of $6.6 million which was primarily due to a decrease in the amount of receivables sold under the program during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009, as well as a decrease in the interest rates during the period. The net cash proceeds available at any one time under the asset backed securitization program was decreased from $280.0 million to $250.0 million during fiscal year 2009. For further discussion of our accounts receivable securitization program, see Note 2 Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Income. Interest income decreased to $7.4 million in fiscal year 2009 from $12.0 million in fiscal year 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower overall interest rates during the year. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased to $82.2 million in fiscal year 2009 from $94.3 million in fiscal year 2008. The decrease was primarily a result of lower variable interest rates and lower utilization of the foreign asset backed securitization program during the 12 months ended August 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2008. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense reflects an effective tax rate of (16.0)% for fiscal year 2009, as compared to an effective tax rate of 16.0% for fiscal year 2008. The effective tax rate differs from the previous period due to the impairment of non deductible goodwill and the corresponding valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets that are no longer more likely than not to be realized. The tax rate is predominantly a function of the mix of tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Most of our international operations have historically been taxed at a lower rate than in the U.S., primarily due to tax incentives granted to our sites in Brazil, China, Hungary, India, Malaysia and Poland that expire at various dates through 2020. Such tax incentives are subject to conditions with which we expect to continue to comply. See Risk Factors We are subject to the risk of increased taxes and Note 4 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Non U.S. GAAP Core Financial Measures The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations include certain non U.S. GAAP financial measures as identified in the reconciliation below. The non U.S. GAAP financial measures disclosed herein do not have standard meaning and may vary from the non U.S. GAAP financial measures used by other companies or how we may calculate those measures in other instances from time to time. Non U.S. GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Also, our core financial measures should not be construed as an inference by us that our future results will be unaffected by those items which are excluded from our core financial measures. Management believes that the non U.S. GAAP core financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a 51 Table of Contents comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, restructuring and impairment charges, goodwill impairment charges, certain distressed customer charges, loss on disposal of subsidiary, certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges and stock based compensation expense and related charges. Among other uses, management uses non U.S. GAAP core financial measures as a factor in determining employee performance when determining incentive compensation. We are reporting core operating income and core earnings to provide investors with an additional method for assessing operating income and earnings from what we believe are our core manufacturing operations. Most of the items that are excluded for purposes of calculating core operating income and core earnings also impacted certain balance sheet assets, resulting in all or a portion of an asset being written off without a corresponding recovery of cash we may have previously spent with respect to the asset. In the case of restructuring charges, we may be making associated cash payments in the future. In addition, although, for purposes of calculating core operating income and core earnings, we excluded stock based compensation expense (which we anticipate continuing to incur in the future) because it is a non cash expense, the associated stock issued may result in an increase in our outstanding shares of stock, which may result in the dilution of our stockholders ownership interest. We encourage you to evaluate these items and the limitations for purposes of analysis in excluding them. Included in the table below is a reconciliation of the non U.S. GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures as provided in our consolidated financial statements (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 2009 2008 Operating income (loss) (U.S. GAAP) $ 327,566 $ (910,201 ) $ 251,397 Amortization of intangibles 25,934 31,039 37,288 Stock based compensation and related charges 104,609 44,026 36,404 Restructuring and impairment charges 8,217 51,894 54,808 Goodwill impairment charges 1,022,821 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 24,604 Distressed customer charges 7,256 Core operating income (Non U.S. GAAP) $ 490,930 $ 246,835 $ 379,897 Net income (loss) attributable to Jabil Circuit, Inc. (U.S. GAAP) $ 168,840 $ (1,165,212 ) $ 133,892 Amortization of intangibles, net of tax 25,887 30,916 26,990 Stock based compensation and related charges, net of tax 102,719 43,088 30,591 Restructuring and impairment charges, net of tax 8,314 63,490 39,573 Goodwill impairment charges, net of tax 1,018,157 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, net of tax 24,604 Distressed customer charges, net of tax 6,329 Deferred tax valuation allowance charges 121,929 Other expense, net of tax 13,317 Core earnings (Non U.S. GAAP) $ 330,364 $ 132,014 $ 231,046 52 Table of Contents Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 2009 2008 Common shares used in the calculations of basic earnings (loss) per share: Basic weighted average shares outstanding (U.S. GAAP)(1) 214,332 207,002 209,805 Adjustments: Share based payment awards classified as participating securities 6,424 Basic weighted average shares outstanding (Non U.S. GAAP) 214,332 213,426 209,805 Common shares used in the calculations of diluted earnings (loss) per share: Diluted weighted average shares outstanding (U.S. GAAP)(1) 217,597 207,002 210,425 Adjustments: Share based payment awards classified as participating securities 6,424 Dilutive common shares issuable under the ESPP and upon exercise of options and stock appreciation rights 72 Dilutive unvested non participating restricted stock awards Diluted weighted average shares outstanding (Non U.S. GAAP) $ 217,597 $ 213,498 $ 210,425 Earnings (loss) per share: (U.S. GAAP) Basic $ 0.79 $ (5.63 ) $ 0.64 Diluted $ 0.78 $ (5.63 ) $ 0.64 Core earnings per share: (Non U.S. GAAP) Basic $ 1.54 $ 0.62 $ 1.10 Diluted $ 1.52 $ 0.62 $ 1.10 (1) For the 12 months ended August 31, 2009, no potential common shares relating to our equity awards were included in the U.S. GAAP computation of basic and diluted loss per share as their effect would have been anti dilutive given the Companys net loss for the period. Core operating income in fiscal year 2010 increased 98.9% to $490.9 million compared to $246.8 million in fiscal year 2009. Core earnings in fiscal year 2010 increased 150.2% to $330.4 million compared to $132.0 million in fiscal year 2009. These increases were the result of the same factors described above in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2009 Gross Profit. 53 Table of Contents Quarterly Results (Unaudited) The following table sets forth certain unaudited quarterly financial information for the 2010 and 2009 fiscal years. In the opinion of management, this information has been presented on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere, and all necessary adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the unaudited quarterly results when read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Fiscal Year 2010 Fiscal Year 2009 Aug. 31, May 31, Feb. 28, Nov. 30, Aug. 31, May 31, Feb. 28, Nov. 30, 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 (In thousands, except per share data) Net revenue $ 3,860,933 $ 3,455,578 $ 3,004,644 $ 3,088,256 $ 2,799,528 $ 2,615,101 $ 2,887,400 $ 3,382,509 Cost of revenue 3,573,425 3,193,464 2,781,898 2,856,480 2,608,561 2,466,512 2,731,854 3,158,796 Gross profit 287,508 262,114 222,746 231,776 190,967 148,589 155,546 223,713 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 160,512 151,409 146,264 131,553 127,807 125,419 111,053 131,662 Research and development 6,632 6,331 7,425 7,697 8,714 7,198 5,754 5,655 Amortization of intangibles 5,980 6,206 6,643 7,105 7,719 7,612 7,673 8,035 Restructuring and impairment charges 2,512 1,635 635 3,435 3,582 16,167 31,524 621 Goodwill impairment charges 705,121 317,700 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 8,882 15,722 Operating income (loss) 102,990 96,533 61,779 66,264 43,145 (7,807 ) (705,579 ) (239,960 ) Other expense 964 960 1,125 1,038 15,942 948 857 2,364 Interest income (779 ) (626 ) (644 ) (907 ) (2,112 ) (1,087 ) (1,920 ) (2,307 ) Interest expense 19,519 19,503 20,030 20,116 19,393 19,043 20,077 23,734 Income (loss) before income tax 83,286 76,696 41,268 46,017 9,922 (26,711 ) (724,593 ) (263,751 ) Income tax expense 23,910 24,009 11,446 17,136 3,989 2,528 142,018 12,363 Net income (loss) 59,376 52,687 29,822 28,881 5,933 (29,239 ) (866,611 ) (276,114 ) Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of income tax expense 685 656 (8 ) 593 426 (477 ) (511 ) (257 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Jabil Circuit, Inc $ 58,691 $ 52,031 $ 29,830 $ 28,288 $ 5,507 $ (28,762 ) $ (866,100 ) $ (275,857 ) Earnings (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.27 $ 0.24 $ 0.14 $ 0.13 $ 0.03 $ (0.14 ) $ (4.19 ) $ (1.34 ) Diluted $ 0.27 $ 0.24 $ 0.14 $ 0.13 $ 0.03 $ (0.14 )(1) $ (4.19 )(1) $ (1.34 )(1) Common shares used in the calculations of earnings (loss) per share: Basic 214,011 213,881 213,625 213,665 207,696 207,190 206,711 206,411 Diluted 215,997 216,522 214,760 215,059 208,846 207,190 206,711 206,411 (1) For the three months ended May 31, 2009, February 28, 2009, and November 30, 2008 all outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the Company was in a loss position. 54 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain financial information stated as a percentage of net revenue: Fiscal Year 2010 Fiscal Year 2009 Aug. 31, May 31, Feb. 28, Nov. 30, Aug. 31, May 31, Feb. 28, Nov. 30, 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 92.6 92.4 92.6 92.5 93.2 94.3 94.6 93.4 Gross profit 7.4 7.6 7.4 7.5 6.8 5.7 5.4 6.6 Selling, general and administrative 4.1 4.4 4.9 4.3 4.6 4.8 3.8 3.9 Research and development 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 Amortization of intangibles 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 Restructuring and impairment charges 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.6 1.1 Goodwill impairment charges 24.4 9.4 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 0.2 0.5 Operating income (loss) 2.6 2.8 2.1 2.2 1.5 (0.3 ) (24.4 ) (7.1 ) Other expense 0.6 0.1 Interest income (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Interest expense 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Income (loss) before income taxes 2.1 2.2 1.4 1.5 0.3 (1.0 ) (25.1 ) (7.8 ) Income tax expense 0.6 0.7 0.4 0.6 0.1 0.1 4.9 0.4 Net income (loss) 1.5 1.5 1.0 0.9 0.2 (1.1 ) (30.0 ) (8.2 ) Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of income tax expense Net income (loss) attributable to Jabil Circuit, Inc 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.0 % 0.9 % 0.2 % (1.1 )% (30.0 )% (8.2 )% Acquisitions and Expansion We have made a number of acquisitions in prior years that were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition. See Risk Factors We have on occasion not achieved, and may not in the future achieve, expected profitability from our acquisitions. Liquidity and Capital Resources At August 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalent balances totaling $744.3 million, total notes payable, long term debt and capital lease obligations of $1.2 billion, $800.0 million in available liquidity under our revolving credit facilities and up to $187.6 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable securitization and uncommitted sale programs. 55 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the fiscal year ended August 31 selected consolidated cash flow information (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 427,410 $ 557,309 $ 420,002 Net cash used in investing activities (440,257 ) (286,175 ) (384,720 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (100,280 ) (195,913 ) 85,000 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (18,816 ) 28,128 (10,984 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (131,943 ) $ 103,349 $ 109,298 Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010 was approximately $427.4 million. This resulted primarily from net income of $170.8 million, a $1.2 billion increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, $283.3 million in non cash depreciation and amortization expense, $104.6 million in non cash stock based compensation expense, $18.7 million in loss on disposal of subsidiaries, a $16.9 million increase in income tax payable and $8.2 million in restructuring and impairment charges; which were partially offset by a $969.3 million increase in inventories, a $247.1 million increase in trade accounts receivable and a $143.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. The increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses was primarily driven by the timing of purchases and cash payments. The increase in accounts receivable was predominately attributable to increased sales during the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. The increase in inventories was primarily due to the ramp up of inventory levels to support new business wins, as well as raw material shortages due to a constrained materials environment which has caused material component lead times to be extended. For further discussion of material shortages see Risk Factors We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components that are critical to our manufacturing processes. A shortage of these components or an increase in their price could interrupt our operations and reduce our profits, increase our inventory carrying costs, increase our risk of exposure to inventory obsolescence and cause us to purchase components of a lesser quality. Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010 was $440.3 million. This consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $398.4 million for investments in capacity to support the ongoing production of new programs within the mobility sector and information technology infrastructure, proceeds from the disposal of subsidiaries net of cash of $27.1 million and notes receivable from sale of $25.0 million; which were partially offset by $10.3 million of proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. Net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010 was $100.3 million. This resulted from our receipt of approximately $4.4 billion of proceeds from borrowings under existing debt agreements, which primarily included an aggregate of $3.9 billion of borrowings under the revolving portion of the Credit Facility and $196.1 million in borrowings under our short term Indian working capital facilities. This was offset by repayments in an aggregate amount of approximately $4.4 billion during fiscal year 2010, which primarily included an aggregate of $3.9 billion of repayments under the revolving portion of the Credit Facility and $217.4 million of repayments under our short term Indian working capital facilities. In addition, we paid $59.9 million of dividends to stockholders during fiscal year 2010. We may need to finance day to day working capital needs, as well as future growth and any corresponding working capital needs, with additional borrowings under our revolving credit facilities described below, as well as additional public and private offerings of our debt and equity. Currently, we have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future, from time to time, to augment our liquidity and capital resources. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, we entered into an asset backed securitization program with a bank, which originally provided for net cash proceeds at any one time of an amount up to $100.0 million on the sale of eligible trade accounts receivable of certain domestic operations. Subsequent to fiscal year 2004, several amendments have adjusted the net cash proceeds available at any one time under the securitization program to an amount of $270.0 million and extended the program until March 16, 2011. Under this agreement, we continuously 56 Table of Contents sell a designated pool of trade accounts receivable to a wholly owned subsidiary, which in turn sells an ownership interest in the receivables to a conduit, administered by an unaffiliated financial institution. This wholly owned subsidiary is a separate bankruptcy remote entity and its assets would be available first to satisfy the claims of the conduit. As the receivables sold are collected, we are able to sell additional receivables up to the maximum permitted amount under the program. The securitization program requires compliance with several financial covenants including an interest coverage ratio and debt to EBITDA ratio, as defined in the securitization agreements. For each pool of eligible receivables sold to the conduit, we retain a percentage interest in the face value of the receivables, which is calculated based on the terms of the agreement. Net receivables sold under this program are excluded from trade accounts receivable on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We continue to service, administer and collect the receivables sold under this program. We pay a fee on the unused portion of the facility of 0.575% per annum based on the average daily unused aggregate capital during the period. Further, we pay a usage fee on the utilized portion of the facility equal to LIBOR plus 1.15% per annum (inclusive of the unused fee) on the average daily outstanding aggregate capital during the immediately preceding calendar month. The securitization conduit and the investors in the conduit have no recourse to our assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. At August 31, 2010, we had sold $419.8 million of eligible trade accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total outstanding receivables at that date. In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $194.7 million and retained an interest in the receivables of approximately $225.1 million. In connection with the securitization program, we recognized pretax losses on the sale of receivables of approximately $3.6 million, $5.3 million, and $11.9 million during fiscal the years ended August 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, which are recorded as other expense on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 15 New Accounting Pronouncements to the Consolidated Financial Statements. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, we entered into an agreement with an unrelated third party for the factoring of specific trade accounts receivable of a foreign subsidiary. Under the terms of the factoring agreement, we transfer ownership of eligible trade accounts receivable without recourse to the third party purchaser in exchange for cash. Proceeds on the transfer reflect the face value of the account less a discount. The discount is recorded as a loss in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period of the sale. In September 2010, the factoring agreement was extended through March 31, 2011, at which time it is expected to automatically renew for an additional six month period. The receivables sold pursuant to this factoring agreement are excluded from trade accounts receivable on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We continue to service, administer and collect the receivables sold under this program. The third party purchaser has no recourse to our assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. At August 31, 2010, we had sold $14.3 million of trade accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total outstanding receivables at that date. In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $14.2 million. The resulting loss on trade accounts receivable sold under this factoring agreement was $0.1 million, $0.1 million and $0.2 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, we entered into an uncommitted accounts receivable sale agreement with a bank which allows us and certain of our subsidiaries to elect to sell and the bank to elect to purchase at a discount, on an ongoing basis, up to a maximum of $150.0 million of specific trade accounts receivable at any one time. On September 30, 2010, the sale program was amended to increase the facility limit to $200.0 million of specific trade accounts receivable at any one time. The program is accounted for as a sale. Net receivables sold under this program are excluded from trade accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We paid an arrangement fee upon the initial sale and pay a transaction fee each month over the term of the agreement which are recorded to other expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The sale program expires on May 25, 2011. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we entered into an additional uncommitted accounts receivable sale agreement with a bank which allows us and certain of our subsidiaries to elect to sell and the bank to elect to purchase at a discount, on an ongoing basis, up to a maximum of $75.0 million of specific trade accounts receivable at any one time. The program is accounted for as a sale. Net receivables sold under this program are excluded from 57 Table of Contents trade accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are reflected as cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The sale program expires on August 24, 2011. We continue to service the receivables sold under each trade accounts receivable sales program. No servicing asset or liability is recorded at the time of sale as we have determined the servicing fee earned is at a market rate. Servicing costs are recognized as incurred over the servicing period. For the year ended August 31, 2010, we had sold $301.6 million of trade accounts receivable pursuant to the agreements discussed in the immediately preceding two paragraphs. In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $301.4 million. The resulting loss on the sale of trade accounts receivable sold under this sales program was $0.2 million for the year ended August 31, 2010 which was recorded to other expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations outstanding at August 31, 2010 and 2009 are summarized below (in thousands): August 31, August 31, 2010 2009 5.875% Senior Notes due 2010(a) $ $ 5,064 7.750% Senior Notes due 2016(b) 301,782 300,063 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018(c) 397,140 396,758 Short term factoring debt(d) 1,468 Borrowings under credit facilities(e) 73,750 21,313 Borrowings under loans(f) 342,380 384,485 Securitization program obligations(g) 71,436 125,291 Miscellaneous borrowings 8 6 Total notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations $ 1,186,496 $ 1,234,448 Less current installments of notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations 167,566 197,575 Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations, less current installments $ 1,018,930 $ 1,036,873 (a) During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003, we issued a total of $300.0 million, seven year, publicly registered 5.875% Senior Notes (the 5.875% Senior Notes) at 99.803% of par, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $297.2 million. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we repurchased $294.9 million in aggregate principal amount of the 5.875% Senior Notes, pursuant to a public cash tender offer, in which we also paid an early tender premium, accrued interest and associated fees and expenses. The extinguishment of the validly tendered 5.875% Senior Notes resulted in a charge of $10.5 million which was recorded to other expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the 12 months ended August 31, 2009. The 5.875% Senior Notes matured on July 15, 2010, and, at that time, the outstanding balance was fully paid. (b) During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we issued a total of $312.0 million, seven year, publicly registered senior unsecured notes (the 7.750% Senior Notes) at 96.1% of par, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $300.0 million. The 7.750% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2016 and pay interest semiannually on January 15 and July 15. Also, the 7.750% Senior Notes are our senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations. We are subject to covenants such as limitations on our and or our subsidiaries ability to: consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; create certain liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee funded debt (which only applies to our restricted subsidiaries); and guarantee any of our indebtedness (which only applies to our subsidiaries). We are also subject to a covenant regarding our repurchase of the 7.750% Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event. (c) During the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2008, we issued $250.0 million and $150.0 million, respectively, of ten year, unregistered 8.250% notes at 99.965% of par and 97.5% of par, respectively, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $245.7 million and $148.5 million, respectively. On July 18, 2008, we 58 Table of Contents completed an exchange whereby all of the outstanding unregistered 8.250% Notes were exchanged for registered 8.250% Notes (collectively the 8.250% Senior Notes) that are substantially identical to the unregistered notes except that the 8.250% Senior Notes are registered under the Securities Act and do not have any transfer restrictions, registration rights or rights to additional special interest. The 8.250% Senior Notes mature on March 15, 2018 and pay interest semiannually on March 15 and September 15. The interest rate payable on the 8.250% Senior Notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the credit ratings assigned to the 8.250% Senior Notes increase or decrease, as provided in the 8.250% Senior Notes. The 8.250% Senior Notes are our senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with all other existing and future senior unsecured debt obligations. We are subject to covenants such as limitations on our and or our subsidiaries ability to: consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; create certain liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee any funded debt (which only applies to our restricted subsidiaries); and guarantee any of our indebtedness (which only applies to our subsidiaries). We are also subject to a covenant regarding our repurchase of the 8.250% Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into forward interest rate swap transactions to hedge the fixed interest rate payments for an anticipated debt issuance. The swaps were accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The notional amount of the swaps was $400.0 million. Concurrently with the pricing of the first $250.0 million of the 8.250% Senior Notes, we settled $250.0 million of the swaps by our payment of $27.5 million. We also settled the remaining $150.0 million of swaps during the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 by our payment of $15.6 million. As a result, we settled the amount recognized as a current liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We also recorded $0.7 million to interest expense (as ineffectiveness) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three months ended February 29, 2008, with the remainder recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. On May 19, 2008, we issued the remaining $150.0 million of 8.250% Senior Notes and recorded no additional interest expense (as ineffectiveness) in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The effective portion of the swaps remaining on our Consolidated Balance Sheets will be amortized to interest expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations over the life of the 8.250% Senior Notes. (d) During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we entered into separate agreements with unrelated third parties for the factoring of specific trade accounts receivable of certain foreign subsidiaries. The factoring of trade accounts receivable under these agreements did not meet the criteria for recognition as a sale. Under the terms of these agreements, we transferred ownership of eligible trade accounts receivable to the third party purchasers in exchange for cash, however, as these transactions did not qualify as a sale, the relating trade accounts receivable were included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets until the cash was received by the purchasers from our customer for the trade accounts receivable. This program was transferred in connection with our divestiture of our French and Italian subsidiaries, and therefore, no liability is recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at August 31, 2010. We had an outstanding liability of approximately $1.5 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at August 31, 2009 related to these agreements. (e) As of August 31, 2010, two of our foreign subsidiaries have entered into credit facilities to finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs. The credit facilities are denominated in U.S. dollars. The credit facilities incur interest at fixed and variable rates ranging from 1.82% to 4.15% with $73.8 million outstanding at August 31, 2010. (f) During the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, we negotiated a five year, 400.0 million Indian rupee construction loan for an Indian subsidiary with an Indian branch of a global bank. Under the terms of the loan, we pay interest on outstanding borrowings based on a fixed rate of 7.45%. The construction loan expired on April 15, 2010 and was fully repaid. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, we negotiated a five year, 25.0 million Euro construction loan for a Hungarian subsidiary with a Hungarian branch of a global bank. Under the terms of the loan facility, we pay interest on outstanding borrowings based on the Euro Interbank Offered Rate plus a spread of 0.925%. Quarterly principal repayments began in September 2006 to repay the amount of proceeds drawn under the construction loan. The construction loan expired on April 13, 2010 and was fully repaid. 59 Table of Contents During the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into a three year loan agreement to borrow $20.3 million from a software vendor in connection with various software licenses that we purchased from them. The software licenses were capitalized and were being amortized over a three year period. The loan agreement was non interest bearing and payments were due quarterly through October 2009, when the loan agreement was terminated. Through the acquisition of a Taiwanese subsidiary in fiscal year 2007, we assumed certain liabilities, including short and long term debt obligations totaling approximately $102.2 million at the date of acquisition. At August 31, 2010, there are no amounts outstanding under these short term mortgage and credit facilities. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into the five year Credit Facility. This agreement provides for a revolving credit portion in the initial amount of $800.0 million, subject to potential increases up to $1.0 billion, and provides for a term portion in the amount of $400.0 million. Some or all of the lenders under the Credit Facility and their affiliates have various other relationships with us and our subsidiaries involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, loans, letter of credit and bank guarantee facilities, investment banking and trust services. We, along with some of our subsidiaries, have entered into foreign exchange contracts and other derivative arrangements with certain of the lenders and their affiliates. In addition, many, if not most, of the agents and lenders under the Credit Facility held positions as agent and or lender under our old revolving credit facility and the $1.0 billion, 364 day senior unsecured bridge loan facility, that was entered into on December 21, 2006, amended on December 20, 2007 and terminated on February 13, 2008. The revolving credit portion of the Credit Facility terminates on July 19, 2012, and the term loan portion of the Credit Facility requires payments of principal in annual installments of $20.0 million each, with a final payment of the remaining principal due on July 19, 2012. Interest and fees on Credit Facility advances are based on our unsecured long term indebtedness rating as determined by SP and Moodys. Interest is charged at a rate equal to either 0% to 0.75% above the base rate or 0.375% to 1.75% above the Eurocurrency rate, where the base rate represents the greater of Citibank, N.A.s prime rate or 0.50% above the federal funds rate, and the Eurocurrency rate represents the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate, each as more fully defined in this credit agreement. Fees include a facility fee based on the revolving credit commitments of the lenders, a letter of credit fee based on the amount of outstanding letters of credit, and a utilization fee to be added to the revolving credit interest rate and any letter of credit fee during any period when the aggregate amount of outstanding advances and letters of credit exceeds 50% of the total revolving credit commitments of the lenders. Based on our current senior unsecured long term indebtedness rating as determined by SP and Moodys, the current rate of interest (including the applicable facility and utilization fee) on a full draw under the revolving credit would be 0.275% above the base rate or 0.875% above the Eurocurrency rate, and the current rate of interest on the term portion would be the base rate or 0.875% above the Eurocurrency rate. We, along with our subsidiaries, are subject to the following financial covenants: (1) a maximum ratio of (a) Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to (b) Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) and (2) a minimum ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA to (b) interest payable on, and amortization of debt discount in respect of, debt and loss on sales of trade accounts receivables pursuant to our securitization program. In addition, we are subject to other covenants, such as: limitation upon liens; limitation upon mergers, etc; limitation upon accounting changes; limitation upon subsidiary debt; limitation upon sales, etc of assets; limitation upon changes in nature of business; payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; compliance with laws, etc; payment of taxes, etc; maintenance of insurance; preservation of corporate existence, etc; visitation rights; keeping of books; maintenance of properties, etc; transactions with affiliates; and reporting requirements (collectively referred to herein as Restrictive Financial Covenants). During the 12 months ended August 31, 2010, we borrowed $3.9 billion against the revolving credit portion of the Credit Facility. These borrowings were repaid in full during fiscal year 2010. A draw in the amount of $400.0 million has been made under the term portion of the Credit Facility and $340.0 million remains outstanding at August 31, 2010. In addition to the loans described above, at August 31, 2010, we have additional loans outstanding to fund working capital needs. These additional loans total approximately $2.4 million and are denominated in Euros. The loans are due and payable within 12 months and are classified as short term on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. (g) During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we entered into a foreign asset backed securitization program with a bank conduit which originally provided for net borrowings available at any one time of up to $200.0 million. 60 Table of Contents Subsequent to fiscal year 2008, certain amendments adjusted the net borrowings available at any one time under the securitization program to $100.0 million. In connection with the foreign securitization program certain of our foreign subsidiaries sell, on an ongoing basis, an undivided interest in designated pools of trade accounts receivable to a special purpose entity, which in turn borrows up to $100.0 million from the bank conduit to purchase those receivables and in which it grants security interests as collateral for the borrowings. The securitization program is accounted for as a borrowing. The loan balance is calculated based on the terms of the securitization program agreements. The foreign securitization program requires compliance with several covenants including a limitation on certain corporate actions such as mergers, consolidations and sale of substantially all assets. We are assessed a monthly fee based on the maximum facility limit and, in addition, pay interest based on LIBOR plus a spread. The foreign securitization program expires on March 17, 2011. At August 31, 2010, we had $71.4 million of debt outstanding under the program. In addition, we incurred interest expense of $2.1 million, $3.9 million and $2.8 million recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations during the 12 months ended August 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At August 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we were in compliance with all Restrictive Financial Covenants under the Credit Facility and our securitization programs. Our working capital requirements and capital expenditures could continue to increase in order to support future expansions of our operations through construction of greenfield operations or acquisitions. It is possible that future expansions may be significant and may require the payment of cash. Future liquidity needs will also depend on fluctuations in levels of inventory and shipments, changes in customer order volumes and timing of expenditures for new equipment. For discussion of our cash management and risk management policies see Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We currently anticipate that during the next 12 months, our capital expenditures will be in the range of $325.0 million to $375.0 million, principally for machinery and equipment for new business, including new process technology within our mechanical operations, maintenance levels of machinery and equipment and information technology infrastructure upgrades. We believe that our level of resources, which include cash on hand, available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our trade accounts receivable securitization programs and potentially available under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs and funds provided by operations, will be adequate to fund these capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, payments for current and future restructuring activities and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months. Our $270.0 million asset backed securitization program and our $100.0 million foreign asset backed securitization program expire, however, in March 2011 and our $200.0 million and $75.0 million uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs expire in May 2011 and August 2011, respectively, and we may be unable to renew any or all of them. Should we desire to consummate significant additional acquisition opportunities or undertake significant additional expansion activities, our capital needs would increase and could possibly result in our need to increase available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities or access public or private debt and equity markets. There can be no assurance, however, that we would be successful in raising additional debt or equity on terms that we would consider acceptable. Our contractual obligations for short and long term debt arrangements, future interest on notes payable and long term debt, future minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating lease arrangements, estimated future benefit payments to plan and capital commitments as of August 31, 2010 are summarized below. We do not participate in, or secure financing for, any unconsolidated limited purpose entities. We generally do not enter into non cancelable purchase orders for materials until we receive a corresponding purchase commitment from our 61 Table of Contents customer. Non cancelable purchase orders do not typically extend beyond the normal lead time of several weeks at most. Purchase orders beyond this time frame are typically cancelable. Payments Due by Period Less than 1 After Total Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years 5 Years (In thousands) Contractual Obligations Notes payable, long term debt and long term lease obligations $ 1,186,496 $ 167,566 $ 320,008 $ $ 698,922 Future interest on notes payable and long term debt(a) 403,893 62,102 119,918 115,631 106,242 Operating lease obligations 153,787 51,653 62,769 28,742 10,623 Estimated future benefit payments to plan 52,313 4,253 9,515 9,141 29,404 Capital commitments(b) Total contractual cash obligations(c) $ 1,796,489 $ 285,574 $ 512,210 $ 153,514 $ 845,191 (a) Certain of our notes payable and long term debt pay interest at variable rates. In the contractual obligations table above, we have elected to apply interest rates applicable to the current fiscal quarter to determine the value of these future interest payments. (b) During the first fiscal quarter of 2009, we committed $10.0 million to an independent private equity limited partnership which invests in companies that address resource limits in energy, water and materials (commonly referred to as the CleanTech sector). Of that amount, we have invested $4.3 million as of August 31, 2010. The remaining commitment of $5.7 million is callable over the next three years by the general partner. As the capital calls have no specified timing, this commitment has been excluded from the above table as we cannot currently determine when such commitment calls will occur. (c) At August 31, 2010, we have $0.5 million and $86.4 million recorded as a current and a long term liability, respectively, for uncertain tax positions. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of payments, or the amount by which our liability for these uncertain tax positions will increase or decrease over time; and accordingly, this liability has been excluded from the above table. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Risks We transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, intercompany transactions and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. We do not intend to use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. All derivative instruments are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at their respective fair market values. At August 31, 2010, except for certain foreign currency contracts, with a notional amount outstanding of $67.2 million and a fair value of $0.7 million recorded in prepaid and other current assets and $1.0 million recorded in accrued expenses, we have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required for the transactions to qualify as accounting hedges and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The aggregate notional amount of outstanding contracts at August 31, 2010 that do not qualify as accounting hedges was $414.5 million. The fair value of these contracts amounted to a $4.8 million asset recorded in prepaid and other current assets and a $3.3 million liability recorded to accrued expenses on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The forward contracts will generally expire in less than four months, with five months being the maximum term of the contracts outstanding at August 31, 2010. Upon expiration of the contracts, the change in fair value will be reflected in cost of revenue in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The forward contracts are denominated in Brazilian real, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Chinese yuan renminbis, Euros, Hungarian forints, Indian 62 Table of Contents rupees, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgits, Mexican pesos, Polish zlotys, Russian rubles, Singapore dollars and U.S. dollars. Interest Rate Risk A portion of our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our domestic investment portfolio. We do not, and do not intend to, use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. We place cash and cash equivalents with various major financial institutions. We protect our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. We mitigate these risks by generally investing in investment grade securities and by frequently positioning the portfolio to try to respond appropriately to a reduction in credit rating of any investment issuer, guarantor or depository to levels below the credit ratings dictated by our investment policy. The portfolio typically includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to ensure portfolio liquidity. At August 31, 2010, there were no significant outstanding investments. We pay interest on several of our outstanding borrowings at interest rates that fluctuate based upon changes in various base interest rates. There were $481.4 million in borrowings outstanding under these facilities at August 31, 2010. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 7 Notes Payable, Long Term Debt and Long Term Lease Obligations to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our outstanding debt obligations. 
 
