FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20040719080420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM 12.   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
        On July 19, 2004, 3M Company issued a press release reporting its sales and earnings results for second quarter ended June 30, 2004 (furnished hereunder as Exhibit 99.1).
        The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 July 19, 2004  3M (NYSE: MMM) today announced its second quarter 2004 sales and earnings results.
ST. PAUL, Minn.
Net income for the quarter was $773 million, or $0.97 per share, versus $619 million, or $0.78 per share, in the second quarter of 2003. Second quarter net income increased nearly 25 percent, and per-share earnings increased more than 24 percent.
"Solid sales growth and continued operational efficiency produced another outstanding earnings result," said W. James McNerney, Jr., 3M chairman and CEO. "Our employees continued to drive growth through strong connections with customers, leveraging our corporate initiatives and diverse technology base while maintaining good cost discipline."
Worldwide sales in the second quarter totaled $5.01 billion, 9.5 percent higher than in the year-earlier quarter. Global sales volumes increased 7.7 percent, which is the fourth consecutive quarter of volume growth above 7 percent. Local-currency sales (which excludes the impact of currency translation on sales) increased 18.2 percent in Display and Graphics, 10.4 percent in Industrial, 4.8 percent in Electro and Communications, 4.3 percent in Transportation, 4.2 percent in Consumer and Office, 3.4 percent in Safety, Security and Protection Services, and .3 percent in Health Care. Currency effects increased sales by 2.8 percent while selling prices declined 1.0 percent.
Sales outside the United States totaled $3.04 billion, an increase of 14.4 percent versus the second quarter of last year. Volumes increased 10.9 percent, while selling prices declined 1.3 percent. Currency translation effects increased international sales by 4.8 percent. Local-currency sales increased 18.5 percent in Asia Pacific, 13.8 percent in the combined Latin America, Africa and Canada region and 0.5 percent in Europe.
In the United States, sales totaled $1.97 billion, up 2.7 percent from the same quarter of 2003. Volumes increased 3.1 percent, and selling prices declined by 0.4 percent.
"Our broad-based growth in the second quarter reflects the fundamental strength of the 3M business model. Organic growth remains our focus, enabled by the 3M Acceleration initiative and the market focused organization structure we established in 2003," McNerney said. "Although continued geopolitical uncertainty causes us to maintain a conservative economic outlook, we are confident in our ability to deliver solid results."
3M also increased its earnings outlook for 2004. The company now expects reported earnings will be within a range of $3.72 to $3.75 per share for the year, versus a previous expectation of $3.60 to $3.70 per share. 3M expects third-quarter earnings per share to match the company's record second quarter performance of .97 per share.
Petrick D. Campbell, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will conduct an investor teleconference at 9 a.m. Eastern Time (8 a.m. Central) today. Investors can access a webcast of this conference, along with related charts and materials, at http://investor.3M.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements that reflect current views and estimates of 3M's management of future economic circumstances, industry conditions, company performance and financial results. The statements are based on many assumptions and factors including: (1) worldwide economic conditions; (2) foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; (3) the timing and acceptance of new product offerings; (4) purchased components and materials, including shortages and increases in the costs of such components and materials; (5) 3M's ability to successfully manage acquisitions, divestitures and strategic alliances; and (6) legal proceedings. Changes in such assumptions or factors, including without limitation the outcome of and information derived from pending Congressional action concerning asbestos-related litigation, could produce significantly different results.
Every day, 3M people find new ways to make amazing things happen. Wherever they are, whatever they do, the company's customers know they can rely on 3M to help make their lives better. 3M's brands include icons such as Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti. Serving customers in more than 200 countries around the world, the company's 67,000 people use their expertise, technologies and global strength to lead in major markets including consumer and office; display and graphics; electronics and telecommunications; safety, security and protection services; health care; industrial and transportation.
About 3M  A Global, Diversified Technology Company
Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti are trademarks of 3M.
(a)     In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude special items. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding special items provides a useful analysis of ongoing operating trends. Earnings per share and other amounts before special items are not measures recognized under GAAP. The determination of special items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. During the first quarter of 2003, 3M recorded pretax charges of $93 million ($58 million after-tax) related to an adverse court ruling in a lawsuit filed against 3M in 1997 by LePage's Inc.
(a)     Free cash flow is not defined under GAAP. Therefore, it is considered a non-GAAP measure. Non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company believes free cash flow is a useful measure of performance and uses this measure as an indication of the strength of the company and its ability to generate cash.
(b)     The company also uses non-GAAP measures that place emphasis and focus on certain working capital assets and liabilities. 3M's net working capital index is defined as quarterly net sales multiplied by four, divided by ending net accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable. This measure is not recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The following 2004 and 2003 charges were recorded in Corporate and Unallocated for the six-months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003. First quarter 2004 includes $16 million in expense related to a reduction in breast implant receivables following an arbitration panel ruling in the first quarter that rejected the company's claims for recovery under certain of its claims-made policies. During the first quarter of 2003, 3M recorded pretax charges of $93 million related to an adverse court ruling in a lawsuit filed against 3M in 1997 by LePage's Inc. First quarter 2003 also includes certain acquisition-related costs and respirator mask/asbestos litigation expenses.
3M Public Relations and Corporate Communications 3M Center, Building 225-1S-15 St. Paul, MN 55144-1000
From:


