FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20051018081443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
       
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
       
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
       
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
       
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 18, 2005, 3M Company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005 (furnished hereunder as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
3M COMPANY
 
By:
/s/ Gregg M. Larson
Gregg M. Larson,
Secretary
Dated: October 18, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
ST. PAUL, Minn
.  Oct. 18, 2005  3M (NYSE:MMM) today announced its results for the third quarter 2005.
 
The company reported third-quarter net income of $853 million, or $1.10 per share, versus $775 million, or $0.97 per share, in the third quarter of 2004, a per share increase of 13.4 percent. Acquisition related costs for CUNO Inc., which closed Aug. 2, were $.02 per share.
 
"3M employees around the world delivered an outstanding quarter," said Robert S. Morrison, 3M interim chairman and CEO. "We demonstrated once again that 3M's business model, combining innovation with operating discipline, can drive solid sales growth and consistent double-digit earnings per share increases."
 
Worldwide sales in the third quarter totaled $5.4 billion, 8.3 percent higher than in the year-earlier quarter. Local-currency sales increased 7.0 percent, with selling prices contributing 0.9 percent. Local-currency sales increased 12.0 percent in Industrial (including 8.3 percent due to CUNO), 7.9 percent in Display and Graphics, 7.8 percent in Safety, Security and Protection Services, 6.9 percent in Consumer and Office, 6.0 percent in Electro and Communications, 5.6 percent in Transportation, and 2.8 percent in Health Care. The CUNO acquisition contributed 1.4 percent to total company third-quarter local currency sales growth.
 
"Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, we expect broad-based sales growth throughout our diverse portfolio and another double-digit earnings per share increase," said Patrick D. Campbell, 3M senior vice president and CFO. "We expect global demand for our products to remain strong, and our productivity and pricing initiatives to help offset raw material and energy cost pressure."
 
The company also announced that 3M's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $300 million of the company's stock through the period ending Jan. 31, 2006. This increases the total repurchase authorization to $2.3 billion for the period Jan. 1, 2005 to Jan. 31, 2006. Of that $2.3 billion, more than $500 million remains.
 
"This increase in the stock repurchase authorization demonstrates our strong balance sheet, continued confidence in our ability to generate significant growth in the future, and our commitment to shareholders," said Morrison.
 
The company also provided guidance for the remainder of 2005. For the year, the company now expects reported earnings to be $4.15 to $4.16 per share. Excluding previously reported non-recurring items(a), 3M expects earnings of $4.24 to $4.25 per share, raising the bottom end of a previous expectation range of $4.20 to $4.25 per share.  Fourth-quarter earnings are expected to be $1.02 to $1.03 per share with organic local currency sales growth of 4 to 7 percent.
 
Campbell will conduct an investor teleconference at 9 a.m. Eastern Time (8 a.m. Central Time) today. Investors can access a webcast of this conference, along with related charts and materials, at .
http://investor.3M.com
(a) 3M plans to reinvest approximately $1.7 billion of foreign earnings in the United States pursuant to the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This act provides the company the opportunity to tax-efficiently repatriate foreign earnings for US qualifying investments specified by its plan. As a consequence, in the second quarter of 2005, 3M recorded a non-recurring charge of $75 million dollars, net of available foreign tax credits.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking information (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) about the company's financial results and estimates, business prospects, and products under development that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the use of words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: (1) worldwide economic conditions; (2) competitive conditions and customer preferences; (3) foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; (4) the timing and acceptance of new product offerings; (5) the availability and cost of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy (including oil-derived compounds) due to shortages, increased demand or supply interruptions (including those caused by natural and other disasters and other events); (6) 3M's ability to successfully integrate and obtain the anticipated synergies from acquisitions and strategic alliances; (7) generating less operating income from its corporate initiatives than estimated; and (8) legal proceedings, including the outcome of and information derived from pending Congressional action concerning asbestos-related litigation and other significant developments that could occur in the legal proceedings described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2004 and the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 (the "Reports"). Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. A further description of these factors is located in the Reports. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
About 3M
-
A Global, Diversified Technology Company
Every day, 3M people find new ways to make amazing things happen. Wherever they are, whatever they do, the company's customers know they can rely on 3M to help make their lives better. 3M's brands include Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti. Serving customers in more than 200 countries around the world, the company's 69,000 people use their expertise, technologies and global strength to lead in major markets including consumer and office; display and graphics; electronics and telecommunications; safety, security and protection services; health care; industrial and transportation.
 
Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti are trademarks of 3M.
 
 
 
 
 
(b) In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude special items. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding special items provides a useful analysis of ongoing operating trends. Earnings per share and other amounts before special items are not measures recognized under GAAP. The determination of special items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. In the second quarter of 2005, 3M recorded a charge of $75 million, net of available foreign tax credits, related to its plans to reinvest approximately $1.7 billion of foreign earnings in the United States pursuant to the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  No special items were recorded in 2004.
 
 
(c) Accounting rules require that if the Accumulated Benefit Obligation (ABO) exceeds the fair value of pension plan assets the employer must recognize a liability that is at least equal to the unfunded ABO. Thus, in December 2002, 3M recorded a substantial minimum pension liability adjustment. However, at year-end 2004, 3M's U.S. qualified pension plan ABO was less than assets, resulting in an adjustment to previously recorded amounts. When comparing Dec. 31, 2004 to Sept. 30, 2004, this adjustment increased "Prepaid pension and postretirement benefits" by approximately $1.9 billion, increased the long-term deferred tax liability (part of "Other liabilities") by approximately $700 million, and increased other comprehensive income within "Total stockholders' equity-net" by approximately $1.2 billion.
 
(d) The acquisition of CUNO in the third quarter of 2005 increased the "Goodwill, intangible assets and other assets balance" by approximately $1.25 billion.
 
 
 
 
(e) Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.  The company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment.  It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures.  The company believes free cash flow is a useful measure of performance and uses this measure as an indication of the strength of the company and its ability to generate cash.
 
(f) The company uses various working capital measures that place emphasis and focus on certain working capital assets and liabilities.  3M's net working capital index is defined as quarterly net sales multiplied by four, divided by ending net accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable.  This measure is not recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
 
(g) Industrial includes an 8.3% benefit due to the CUNO acquisition.
 
 
 
 
(h) Industrial includes a 2.8% benefit due to the CUNO acquisition.
 
 
 
 
 
From:
3M Public Relations and Corporate Communications
3M Center, Building 225-1S-15
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000
 


