FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20060421074652.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
    
o
        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
    
o
        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
    
o
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
    
o
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 21, 2006, 3M Company issued a press release reporting its sales and earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006 (furnished hereunder as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: April 21, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.
-
April 21, 2006
-
3M (NYSE: MMM) today announced its sales and profit results for the first quarter 2006.
 
First-quarter net income was $899 million, or $1.17 per share, versus $771 million, or $0.97 per share, in the first quarter of 2005. Net income and earnings per share increased 16.6 percent and 20.6 percent, respectively. Included in these results are stock option related costs of $0.02 per share in the first quarter of 2006 and $0.06 per share in the first quarter of 2005(a).
 
"This was an outstanding quarter for 3M, characterized by broad-based growth from our entire portfolio and continued strong leverage to the bottom line. Quarterly sales reached an all-time high with local-currency growth of over 10 percent, and we delivered a double-digit net income increase while also investing for the future," said George W. Buckley, 3M chairman, president and CEO. "We are off to a very strong start in 2006 which gives me great confidence in the ability of our teams around the world to drive accelerated growth and achieve superior financial results."
 
First-quarter worldwide sales in U.S. dollars totaled $5.6 billion, up 8.3 percent compared to the first quarter of 2005. Total local-currency sales increased 10.4 percent, including 2.3 percent from acquisitions, primarily CUNO. Local-currency sales increased 15.6 percent in Safety, Security and Protection Services, 14.0 percent in Industrial and Transportation (including 7.5 percent due to CUNO), 10.6 percent in Electro and Communications, 9.5 percent in Display and Graphics, 8.4 percent in Consumer and Office, and 4.9 percent in Health Care.
 
"Looking ahead, we expect continued strong sales and earnings growth through the rest of 2006," said Buckley. "For the longer term, I see tremendous opportunity for the people of 3M to transform our many strengths  innovative technology and products, broad geographic presence and capability, and established positions in many fast growth end-markets  into even greater sustainable growth."
 
3M also provided revised 2006 sales growth and earnings estimates. The company raised its 2006 revenue growth guidance, and now expects full-year, organic local-currency growth of between 5.5 and 8 percent, up from a previous full-year organic local-currency growth expectation of 4 to 7 percent. The company expects an additional approximately 1.5 percent full-year local-currency growth from closed acquisitions. The company also increased its 2006 earnings estimate, and now expects earnings per share to be in the range of $4.55 to $4.65, up from previous full-year guidance of $4.45 to $4.60 per share. Both ranges include an estimated $0.16 per share cost from stock options.
 
For the second quarter of 2006, the company expects organic local-currency sales growth of 5 to 8 percent with an additional approximately 2.5 percent from closed acquisitions. Earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $1.14 to $1.17, including an estimated $0.08 per share cost from stock options expensing. In the second quarter of 2005, 3M earned $1.06 per share including a $0.04 per share cost from stock options expensing and excluding the one-time impact of the American Jobs Creation Act(b).
 
George W. Buckley, and Patrick D. Campbell, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will conduct an investor teleconference at 9 a.m. Eastern Time (8 a.m. Central Time) today. Investors can access a webcast of this conference, along with related charts and materials, at http://investor.3M.com.
 
(a) 3M adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R effective January 1, 2006, using the modified retrospective method, with prior periods adjusted to give effect to the fair-value-based method of accounting for stock option awards granted in fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 1995.
 
(b) During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, the company completed its evaluation of the repatriation provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Jobs Act) and recognized $75 million, net of available foreign tax credits, of related tax liability. The company reinvested approximately $1.8 billion of foreign earnings in the United States pursuant to the provisions of the Jobs Act in 2005.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking information (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) about the company's financial results and estimates, business prospects, and products under development that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the use of words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: (1) worldwide economic conditions; (2) competitive conditions and customer preferences; (3) foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; (4) the timing and acceptance of new product offerings; (5) the availability and cost of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives) due to shortages, increased demand or supply interruptions (including those caused by natural and other disasters and other events); (6) the impact of acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures, and other unusual events resulting from portfolio management actions and other evolving business strategies, and possible organizational restructuring; (7) generating less productivity improvements than estimated; and (8) legal proceedings, including the outcome of pending Congressional action concerning asbestos-related litigation and other significant developments that could occur in the legal and regulatory proceedings described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005 (the "Report"). Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. A further description of these factors is located in the Report under Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors." The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
About 3M
-
A Global, Diversified Technology Company
Every day, 3M people find new ways to make amazing things happen. Wherever they are, whatever they do, the company's customers know they can rely on 3M to help make their lives better. 3M's brands include Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti. Serving customers in more than 200 countries around the world, the people of 3M use their expertise, technologies and global strength to lead in major markets including consumer and office; display and graphics; electronics and telecommunications; safety, security and protection services; health care; industrial and transportation.
 
Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti are trademarks of 3M.
 
 
 
 
(c) The acquisition of CUNO in the third quarter of 2005 increased the "Goodwill, intangible assets and other assets" balance by $1.3 billion.
 
 
 
 
(d) Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company believes free cash flow is a useful measure of performance and uses this measure as an indication of the strength of the company and its ability to generate cash.
 
(e) The company uses various working capital measures that place emphasis and focus on certain working capital assets and liabilities. 3M's net working capital index is defined as quarterly net sales multiplied by four, divided by ending net accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable. This measure is not recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(f) Industrial & Transportation includes a 7.5% benefit due to the CUNO acquisition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(h) In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude special items. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting (reconciliations for the second and fourth quarter of 2005 were provided in Form 8-K's filed on July 18, 2005 and January 24, 2006, respectively). The company believes that discussion of results excluding special items provides a useful analysis of ongoing operating trends. Earnings per share and other amounts before special items are not measures recognized under GAAP. The determination of special items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, the Company completed its evaluation of the repatriation provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Jobs Act) and recognized $75 million, net of available foreign tax credits, of related tax liability. The Company reinvested approximately $1.8 billion of foreign earnings in the United States pursuant to the provisions of the Jobs Act in 2005.
In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligationsan interpretation of FASB Statement No.143" ("FIN 47"). In adopting FIN 47 in the fourth quarter of 2005, 3M recorded a non-cash charge of $35 million after-tax, as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. This charge represents conditional retirement obligations associated with 3M's long-lived assets.
 
 
From:
3M Public Relations and Corporate Communications
3M Center, Building 225-1S-15
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000
 


