FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20060124082108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
               
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
               
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
               
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
               
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.               Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On January 24, 2006, 3M Company issued a press release reporting its sales and earnings for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005 and calendar year 2005 (furnished hereunder as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act.
 
Item 9.01.               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 24, 2006
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
3M Reports 2005 Fourth-Quarter and Calendar Year Sales and Earnings
 
Jan. 24, 2006 3M (NYSE: MMM) today announced its sales and profit results for the fourth-quarter and calendar year 2005.
ST. PAUL, Minn.
-
-
 
Fourth-quarter net income before a cumulative effect of accounting change related to FIN 47(a) was $796 million, or $1.04 per share, versus $720 million, or $0.91 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2004. Earnings per-share increased 14.3 percent, excluding the effect of FIN 47(a). Fourth-quarter reported net income was $761 million, or $0.99 per share.
 
"This was a great quarter for 3M with broad-based contributions from our diverse portfolio and particularly strong results in our industrial and electronics-related businesses," said George W. Buckley, 3M chairman, president and CEO. "This quarter demonstrates the value 3M's innovative products bring to customers and the superb capability of the 3M organization to overcome the headwinds of raw material price inflation. I would like to thank 3M employees worldwide for leveraging the combination of solid sales growth and strong operational performance into another double-digit earnings per share increase in 2005."
 
Fourth-quarter worldwide sales totaled $5.3 billion, up 4.6 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. Local-currency sales increased 7.3 percent, including 2.1 percent from the acquisition of CUNO Inc. Currency effects decreased sales by 2.7 percent. Local-currency sales increased 18.2 percent in Industrial (including 12.0 percent due to CUNO), 10.9 percent in Electro and Communications, 10.2 percent in Display and Graphics, 9.7 percent in Safety, Security and Protection Services, 3.3 percent in Transportation, 0.5 percent in Consumer and Office, and were unchanged in Health Care.
 
For the 2005 calendar year, reported net income was $3.2 billion, or $4.12 per share. Net income excluding the effects of FIN 47(a) and the American Jobs Creation Act(b), totaled $3.3 billion or $4.26 per share, up from $3.0 billion or $3.75 per share in 2004, an EPS increase of 13.6 percent.
 
Calendar year 2005 sales totaled $21.2 billion, a 5.8 percent increase over 2004. Local-currency sales increased 5.1 percent, including 0.9 percent from the acquisition of CUNO. Selling prices increased 0.6 percent, and currency effects increased sales by 0.7 percent. For the calendar year, local-currency sales growth was driven by increases of 9.3 percent in Industrial (including 5.1 percent from CUNO); 6.9 percent in Safety, Security and Protection Services; 5.0 percent in Transportation; and 4.2 percent in Electro and Communications.
 
"Looking ahead, we will focus on driving profitable growth by investing in our most promising commercialization, geographic and technology opportunities, and part of this investment will come from savings generated through continuous operational improvements," said Buckley. "After long admiring 3M for its unique culture of innovation, decades of success, wealth of technology and outstanding people, I look forward to being part of the team that will make real the tremendous potential of 3M in 2006 and beyond."
 
3M also provided its full-year 2006 earnings estimates. The company expects 2006 per share earnings to be in the range of $4.45 to $4.60, including an estimated $0.16 per share cost of stock
 
options expensing. 3M has elected to restate prior year earnings to reflect stock options expensing, the details of which will be described in the 2006 first quarter 10-Q. Restated 2005 earnings per share will be $4.12(d), including a $0.14 per share cost from expensing stock options, and excluding the one-time impacts of FIN 47(a) and the Jobs Act(b). Calendar year 2006 organic local-currency growth is expected to be between 4 and 7 percent, with an additional approximately 1.4 percent local currency growth from the CUNO acquisition.
 
For the first quarter of 2006, the company expects earnings per share to be in the range of $1.10 to $1.14, including an estimated $0.02 per share cost from stock options expensing(c). In the first quarter of 2005, 3M earned $0.97 per share adjusted to reflect stock options expensing of $0.06 per share. The company expects first-quarter, local-currency sales growth of 4 to 7 percent with an additional estimated 2.3 percent from CUNO.
 
George W. Buckley, and Patrick D. Campbell, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will conduct an investor teleconference at 10 a.m. Eastern Time (9 a.m. Central Time) today. Investors can access a webcast of this conference, along with related charts and materials, at http://investor.3M.com.
 
(a) In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  an interpretation of FASB Statement No.143" ("FIN 47"). In adopting FIN 47 in the fourth quarter, 3M recorded a noncash charge of $35 million after-tax as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Income. This charge represents conditional retirement obligations associated with 3M long-lived assets.
 
(b) During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, the company completed its evaluation of the repatriation provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Jobs Act) and recognized $75 million, net of available foreign tax credits, of related tax liability. The company reinvested approximately $1.8 billion of foreign earnings in the United States pursuant to the provisions of the Jobs Act in 2005.
 
(c) For calendar year 2006, 3M expects an estimated $0.16 earnings per share cost from stock options expensing, with an estimated $0.02 per share cost in the first quarter, an estimated $0.08 per share cost in the second quarter, and estimated $0.03 per share costs in each of the third and fourth quarters. 3M expects a higher expense when the company's annual grant is made in the second quarter, due to a requirement under FAS 123R to immediately expense stock options granted to retirement-eligible employees.
 
(d) Reported 2005 earnings per share will be $3.98, including the restatement for stock options expensing and the one-time impacts of FIN 47(a) and the Jobs Act(b).
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking information (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) about the company's financial results and estimates, business prospects, and products under development that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the use of words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: (1) worldwide economic conditions; (2) competitive conditions and customer preferences; (3) foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; (4) the timing and acceptance of new product offerings; (5) the
 
availability and cost of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives) due to shortages, increased demand or supply interruptions (including those caused by natural and other disasters and other events); (6) the impact of acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures, and other unusual events resulting from portfolio management actions and other evolving business strategies, and possible organizational restructuring; (7) generating less productivity improvements than estimated; and (8) legal proceedings, including the outcome of and information derived from pending Congressional action concerning asbestos-related litigation and other significant developments that could occur in the legal proceedings described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended Dec. 31, 2004 and the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005, and Sept. 30, 2005 (the "Reports"). Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. A further description of these factors is located in the Reports. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
About 3M
-
A Global, Diversified Technology Company
Every day, 3M people find new ways to make amazing things happen. Wherever they are, whatever they do, the company's customers know they can rely on 3M to help make their lives better. 3M's brands include Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti. Serving customers in more than 200 countries around the world, the company's 69,000 people use their expertise, technologies and global strength to lead in major markets including consumer and office; display and graphics; electronics and telecommunications; safety, security and protection services; health care; industrial and transportation.
 
Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti are trademarks of 3M.
 
 
(e) Certain amounts in the prior periods' consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Internally developed patent costs have been reclassified to "Research, development and related expenses" from "Selling, general and administrative expenses". Costs of internally developed patents include costs and fees incurred to prepare, file, secure and maintain patents.
 
 
During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, the Company completed its evaluation of the repatriation provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Jobs Act) and recognized $75 million, net of available foreign tax credits, of related tax liability. The Company reinvested approximately $1.8 billion of foreign earnings in the United States pursuant to the provisions of the Jobs Act in 2005.  In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligationsan interpretation of FASB Statement No.143" ("FIN 47").  In adopting FIN 47 in the fourth quarter of 2005, 3M recorded a non-cash charge of $35 million after-tax as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. This charge represents conditional retirement obligations associated with 3M long-lived assets.
(f) In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude special items. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding special items provides a useful analysis of ongoing operating trends. Earnings per share and other amounts before special items are not measures recognized under GAAP. The determination of special items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 
 
(g) The acquisition of CUNO in the third quarter of 2005 increased the "Goodwill, intangible assets and other assets" balance by approximately $1.3 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
(h) Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company believes free cash flow is a useful measure of performance and uses this measure as an indication of the strength of the company and its ability to generate cash.
 
(i) The company uses various working capital measures that place emphasis and focus on certain working capital assets and liabilities. 3M's net working capital index is defined as quarterly net sales multiplied by four, divided by ending net accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable. This measure is not recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
(j) The company uses non-GAAP measures to focus on shareholder value creation.  3M's Economic Profit is defined as after-tax operating income less a charge for operating capital. 3M also uses Return on Invested Capital, defined as after-tax operating income divided by average operating capital. This measure is presented as reported and also excluding 2005 special items.  3M's reported economic profit calculation also excludes the impact of the adoption of FIN 47.  Special items were previously defined within the Supplemental Consolidated Statement of Income Information section of this document. These measures are not recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
(k) Industrial includes a 12.0% benefit due to the CUNO acquisition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(l) Industrial includes a 5.1% benefit due to the CUNO acquisition.
 
 
 


