FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20061020085253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
       
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
       
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
       
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
       
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 20, 2006, 3M Company issued a press release reporting its sales and profit results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2006 (attached hereunder as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 20, 2006
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
3M Reports Record Third-Quarter Sales and Earnings per Share;
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.
-
Oct. 20, 2006
-
3M (NYSE: MMM) today announced its sales and profit results for the third quarter of 2006.
 
Third-quarter worldwide sales were a record $5.9 billion, up 8.8 percent compared to the third quarter of 2005. Total local-currency sales increased 7.3 percent, including 1.7 percent from acquisitions. Each business contributed positively to the growth, with local-currency sales increasing 17.1 percent in Safety, Security and Protection Services, 8.2 percent in Display and Graphics, 6.9 percent in Industrial and Transportation, 6 percent in Health Care, 5.8 percent in Consumer and Office and 3.4 percent in Electro and Communications.
 
Third-quarter net income was $894 million, or $1.18 per share, including net gains of
$0.01 per share due to a net benefit from certain income tax adjustments
, partially offset by costs related to the company's current efforts to seek strategic alternatives for its branded pharmaceuticals business. In the third quarter of 2005, net income was $840 million, or $1.08 per share. Included in these results are stock options related costs of $0.04 per share in the third quarter of 2006 and $0.02 per share in the third quarter of 2005(a).
 
"This was a strong performance by the 3M team, with broad sales growth across our portfolio," said George W. Buckley, 3M chairman of the board, president and CEO. "All six of our businesses posted positive local currency growth for the fifth consecutive quarter, led by Safety, Security and Protection Services at over 17 percent growth. In addition, we continued to drive growth via leveraging our world-class geographic infrastructure."
 
Local-currency growth was 9.5 percent in Asia Pacific, 8.4 percent in Europe, 6.3 percent in Latin America and 6.2 percent in the United States. Worldwide sales in dollars increased 8.8 percent, reaching an all-time quarterly high, and earnings per share improved 9.3 percent versus last year's third quarter.
 
Buckley also commented on 3M's LCD films business, which is part of the Display and Graphics segment. "As anticipated, LCD industry inventories have returned to more normal levels and our growth in this business accelerated in the third quarter as consumers purchased more LCD televisions. In addition, we saw continued manufacturing process improvement in this business as the quarter progressed and the new production line is now behaving in line with our expectations."
 
Buckley continued. "Looking ahead, we will continue to follow our agenda for accelerating innovation and growth via investments in R&D, sales and marketing, growth-oriented capital investment and selected acquisitions. These investments will be funded over time by productivity improvement efforts, such as global strategic sourcing and lean six sigma, to relentlessly drive out cost, simplify our supply chains and improve customer service."
 
For the fourth quarter of 2006, the company expects organic local-currency sales growth of 4 to 8 percent. Acquisitions are expected to add approximately 1.5 percent to fourth-quarter sales growth. The company expects fourth-quarter earnings per share will be in the range of $1.10 to $1.16, excluding an estimated $0.12 to $0.13 per share of one-time acquisition costs related to the purchase
 
of Brontes Technologies, Inc.(b). Also included in estimated fourth quarter earnings is $0.04 per share cost from stock options expensing. In the fourth quarter of 2005,
before a cumulative effect of accounting change,
3M earned $1.01 per share, including $0.02 per share from stock options expensing.
 
Buckley and Patrick D. Campbell, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will conduct an investor teleconference at 9 a.m. Eastern Time (8 a.m. Central Time) today. Investors can access a web cast of this conference, along with related charts and materials, at http://investor.3M.com.
 
(a)
         
3M adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R effective Jan. 1, 2006, using the modified retrospective method, with prior periods adjusted to give effect to the fair-value-based method of accounting for stock option awards granted in fiscal years beginning on or after Jan. 1, 1995.
 
(b)
        
On Oct. 17, 2006, the company announced its intent to
acquire Brontes Technologies Inc., a Lexington, Mass.-based developer of proprietary 3-D imaging technology for $95 million in cash. The transaction will result in an estimated f
ourth-quarter 2006 charge in the range of $0.12 to $0.13 per share, reflecting the one-time write-off of in-process research and development costs. Financial accounting standards require companies to expense such costs upon acquisition.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This new release contains forward-looking information (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) about the company's financial results and estimates, business prospects, and products under development that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the use of words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: (1) worldwide economic conditions; (2) competitive conditions and customer preferences; (3) foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; (4) the timing and acceptance of new product offerings; (5) the availability and cost of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives) due to shortages, increased demand or supply interruptions (including those caused by natural and other disasters and other events); (6) the impact of acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures, and other unusual events resulting from portfolio management actions and other evolving business strategies, and possible organizational restructuring; (7) generating less productivity improvements than estimated; and (8) legal proceedings, including significant developments that could occur in the legal and regulatory proceedings described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005 and the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006 (the "Reports"). Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. A further description of these factors is located in the Reports under Part I, Item 1A (Annual Report) and Part II, Item 1A (Quarterly Report), "Risk Factors."  The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
About 3M
-
A Global, Diversified Technology Company
 
Every day, 3M people find new ways to make amazing things happen. Wherever they are, whatever they do, the company's customers know they can rely on 3M to help make their lives better. 3M's brands include Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti. Serving customers in more than 200 countries around the world, the people of 3M use their expertise, technologies and global strength to lead in major markets including consumer and office; display and graphics; electronics and telecommunications; safety, security and protection services; health care; industrial and transportation.
 
Scotch, Post-it, Scotchgard, Thinsulate, Scotch-Brite, Filtrete, Command and Vikuiti are trademarks of 3M.
 
 
 
(c)  In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude special items. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides
 
 
reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company believes that discussion of results excluding special items provides a useful analysis of ongoing operating trends. Earnings per share and other amounts before special items are not measures recognized under GAAP. The determination of special items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
In the third quarter of 2006, net income included net gains of $10 million due to a net benefit from certain income tax adjustments, partially offset by costs related to the company's current efforts to seek strategic alternatives for its branded pharmaceuticals business.
 
 
(d) In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude special items. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting. The company
 
believes that discussion of results excluding special items provides a useful analysis of ongoing operating trends. Earnings per share and other amounts before special items are not measures recognized under GAAP. The determination of special items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
In the second quarter of 2006, net income included net gains of $74 million due to a net benefit from certain income tax adjustments, partially offset by settlement costs of a previously disclosed class action and costs related to the company's current efforts to seek strategic alternatives for its branded pharmaceuticals business. Refer to 3M's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2006 for further discussion of these items. Reference the preceding Note (c) for discussion of the net gains of $10 million included in net income that impacted the third quarter of 2006.
 
In the second quarter of 2005, the Company announced its intent to reinvest $1.7 billion of foreign earnings in the United States pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. As a consequence, in the second quarter of 2005, 3M recorded a charge of $75 million after-tax.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company believes free cash flow is a useful measure of performance and uses this measure as an indication of the strength of the company and its ability to generate cash.
 
(f) The company uses various working capital measures that place emphasis and focus on certain working capital assets and liabilities. 3M's net working capital index is defined as quarterly net sales multiplied by four, divided by ending net accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable. This measure is not recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Industrial and Transportation includes a 2.4% benefit from acquisitions, primarily CUNO. Safety, Security and Protection Services includes a 6.0% benefit from acquisitions, primarily Security Printing and Systems Limited.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Industrial and Transportation includes a 5.9% benefit from acquisitions, primarily CUNO. Safety, Security and Protection Services includes a 2.0% benefit from acquisitions, primarily Security Printing and Systems Limited.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(g) In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discloses non-GAAP results that exclude special items. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company provides reconciliations of its non-GAAP financial reporting to the most comparable GAAP reporting (reconciliations for the second and fourth quarter of 2005 were provided in Form 8-K's filed on July 18, 2005 and January 24, 2006, respectively). The company believes that discussion of results excluding special items provides a useful analysis of ongoing operating trends. Earnings per share and other amounts before special items are not measures recognized under GAAP. The determination of special items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Refer to the preceding Note (b) for discussion of an acquisition that will impact fourth quarter 2006 results.
The fourth quarter 2006 estimates exclude any potential costs related to efforts to seek strategic alternatives for the branded pharmaceuticals business and associated restructuring actions.
Refer to the preceding Notes (c) and (d) for discussion of the special items that impacted the three months ended September 30, 2006, June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005. In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional
 
Asset Retirement Obligationsan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143" ("FIN 47"). In adopting FIN 47 in the fourth quarter of 2005, 3M recorded a non-cash charge of $35 million after-tax, as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. This charge represents conditional retirement obligations associated with 3M's long-lived assets.
 


