FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20070420163526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
3M COMPANY
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
o
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
As described in this Current Report, during the first quarter of 2007, 3M Company effected certain business segment realignments. 3M Company is providing in this Current Report supplemental unaudited historical business segment sales and operating income information to reflect these segment realignments on both an annual and quarterly basis for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, with related reclassified business segment sales growth information also provided on both an annual and quarterly basis for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 (furnished hereunder as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference).
The Company did not operate under the realigned segments structure for any of these prior periods and will begin to report comparative results under the new structure with the filing of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99
As more fully described below, during the first quarter of 2007, 3M effected certain business segment realignments. 3M is including in this Current Report on Form 8-K the following information:
                 
Supplemental unaudited reclassified business segment net sales and operating income information (provided on annual and quarterly basis for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004).
                 
Supplemental unaudited reclassified related sales growth information (provided on annual and quarterly basis for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005)
This supplemental unaudited information is being provided to show reclassified historical results for the realigned segments.
The Company did not operate under the realigned segments structure for any of these prior periods and will begin to report comparative results under the new structure effective with the filing of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Effective in the first quarter of 2007, 3M made certain changes to its business segments in its continuing effort to drive growth by aligning businesses around markets and customers. The most significant of these changes are summarized as follows:
3M's new emerging business opportunity in its Track and Trace initiative resulted in the merging of a number of formerly separate efforts into one concerted effort for future growth. Track and Trace has a growing array of applications  from tracking packages to managing medical and legal records. The establishment of this new initiative within 3M's Safety, Security and Protection Services segment resulted in the transfer of certain businesses to this segment from other segments, including the transfer of HighJump Software Inc., a 3M U.S.-based subsidiary that provides supply chain execution software and solutions (Industrial and Transportation Segment) and the transfer of certain Track and Trace products from the Electro and Communications segment.
                 
3M's Visual Systems business (Consumer and Office segment), which offers analog overhead and electronic projectors and film, was transferred to the Electro and Communications segment. This transfer is intended to leverage common markets, customers, suppliers and technologies.
                 
3M's Industrial and Transportation segment (Energy and Advanced Materials business) transferred the 3M Aluminum Conductor Composite Reinforced (ACCR) electrical power cable to the Electro and Communications segment (Electrical Markets business). With an aluminum-based metal matrix at its core, the ACCR product increases transmission capacity for existing power lines. The Electrical Markets business sells insulating, testing and connecting products to various markets, including the electric utility markets.
                 
Certain adhesives and tapes in the Industrial Adhesives and Tapes business (Industrial and Transportation segment) were transferred to the Consumer and Office segment, primarily related to the Construction and Home Improvement business and the Stationery Products business.
                 
3M transferred Film Manufacturing and Supply Chain Operations, a resource for the manufacturing and development of films and materials, to the Display and Graphics Business from Corporate and Unallocated.
                 
Segment information for all periods presented has been reclassified to reflect the new segment structure.
The impact of these changes on previously reported 2006 net sales and operating income is summarized as follows:
 
3M's businesses are organized, managed and internally grouped into segments based on differences in products, technologies and services. Effective in the first quarter of 2007, 3M continues to manage its operations in six operating business segments: Industrial and Transportation segment, Health Care segment, Display and Graphics segment, Consumer and Office segment, Safety, Security and Protection Services segment, and the Electro and Communications segment. 3M's six business segments bring together common or related 3M technologies, enhancing the development of
innovative products and services and providing for efficient sharing of business resources. These segments have worldwide responsibility for virtually all 3M product lines. 3M is not dependent on any single product or market. Transactions among reportable segments are recorded at cost. 3M is an integrated enterprise characterized by substantial intersegment cooperation, cost allocations and inventory transfers. Therefore, management does not represent that these segments, if operated independently, would report the operating income information shown.
Supplemental Unaudited Business Segment Information
Based on Segment Structure Effective in the First Quarter of 2007
Net Sales
 
Supplemental Unaudited Business Segment Information
Based on Segment Structure Effective in the First Quarter of 2007
Operating Income
Refer to Note 2 and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in 3M's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K for disclosure of items that significantly impacted 2006 business segment reported operating income. The most significant items impacting 2006 operating income are the net gain on sale of portions of the pharmaceuticals business (within the Health Care segment) and restructuring and other actions. Operating income presented in the table that follows includes the impact of these significant items.
Corporate and Unallocated operating income principally includes corporate investment gains and losses, certain derivative gains and losses, insurance-related gains and losses, certain litigation expenses, corporate restructuring program charges and other miscellaneous items. Because this category includes a variety of miscellaneous items, it is subject to fluctuation on a quarterly and annual basis.
 
Supplemental Unaudited Business Segment Information
Based on Segment Structure Effective in the First Quarter of 2007
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discusses non-GAAP measures that exclude special items. Operating income measures that exclude special items are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate and manage the company's operations. The company believes that discussion of results excluding special items provides a useful analysis of ongoing operating trends. The determination of special items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
As discussed in 3M's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2006 results included net gains that increased operating income by $523 million. gains related to the sale of certain portions of 3M's branded pharmaceuticals business ($1.074 billion)
2006 included net benefits from
, which were partially offset by restructuring actions ($403 million), acquired in-process research and development expenses ($95 million), settlement costs of a previously disclosed antitrust class action ($40 million), and environmental obligations related to the pharmaceuticals business ($13 million).  These items primarily impacted the three-months ended December 31, 2006 (fourth quarter of 2006), except for the $40 million in settlement costs which were incurred in the second quarter of 2006 and certain costs related to the Company's efforts to sell its pharmaceuticals business ($9 million in the second quarter of 2006 and $13 million in the third quarter of 2006).
The reconciliation provided below, which has been revised from what was previously reported to reflect the new segment structure, reconciles the non-GAAP operating income measure by business segment with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2006.
 
Supplemental Unaudited Business Segment Information Based on Segment Structure Effective in the First Quarter of 2007 Sales Growth
The information presented in the following table represents the percent change in sales from the same period in the preceding year. Local-currency sales include both core plus acquisition volume impacts, in addition to price impacts.  While the Health Care and total company historical sales results did not change, they are provided for reference purposes.
SALES GROWTH
 
Supplemental Unaudited Business Segment Information
Health Care Business
he sale of 3M's branded pharmaceuticals business in December 2006 and January 2007 will negatively impact both sales growth and operating income margins in Health Care and the total company in 2007. Sales growth in 2007 will be negatively impacted as significant pharmaceuticals sales will be in the base 2006 period.
T
As a result, 3M believes the following disaggregated information for 3M Health Care's remaining businesses (after the sale of pharmaceuticals) and for pharmaceuticals on a stand-alone basis provides useful information.
 
As discussed in 3M's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Health Care Business without Pharmaceuticals in the fourth quarter of 2006 included $95 million of expensed in-process research and development costs related to the Brontes acquisition and business-specific restructuring actions that totaled $15 million.  Pharmaceuticals included a combination of items in 2006, which in total positively impacted 2006 operating income by $783 million. This included a $1.074 billion gain on sale of a portion of the pharmaceuticals business, which was partially offset by restructuring actions totaling $278 million and environmental reserves totaling $13 million. These items were primarily recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006, except for
certain costs related to the Company's efforts to sell its pharmaceuticals business ($9 million in the second quarter of 2006 and $13 million in the third quarter of 2006).
SALES GROWTH
 


