FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20100427081344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
FORM 8-K
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 27, 2010, 3M Company issued a press release reporting first-quarter 2010 results and raising 2010 sales and earnings expectations (attached hereunder as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.
 April 27, 2010 - 3M (NYSE: MMM) today reported first-quarter earnings of $1.29 per share on sales of $6.3 billion. Operating income margins were 22.8 percent, up 7 percentage points year-on-year. Sales and per-share earnings increased 24.7 percent and 74.3 percent, respectively, versus the first quarter of 2009.
 
Each of the company's six business segments posted double-digit sales growth and 20 percent-plus operating income margins. Sales growth was strongest in emerging economies, where sales expanded by 47 percent versus the first quarter of 2009. Free cash flow (c) more than doubled to $925 million, a first-quarter record for the company, and free cash flow conversion was 99 percent.
 
Included in first-quarter 2010 earnings was a one-time, non-cash income tax charge of $84 million, or 11 cents per share, resulting from Medicare Part D changes imbedded in the recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Excluding this charge, first-quarter 2010 earnings were $1.40 per share, also a record for any first quarter in 3M's history. First-quarter 2009 earnings included restructuring-related charges of $45 million after tax, or 7 cents per share.
 
"By any measure, we are off to a tremendous start in 2010," said George W. Buckley, 3M chairman, president and chief executive officer. "First-quarter sales were boosted by improved market penetration and new product flow along with significant growth in important end-markets such as electronics, automotive OEM and respiratory protection products. I thank the many 3M business teams around the world for an outstanding first-quarter effort."
 
Buckley continued, "This quarter's results clearly demonstrate the benefits of our long-term strategy of accelerating investment in higher growth programs. In addition, we are successfully driving growth in adjacent market spaces, while continuing to maintain exceptional operating returns and free cash flow. These efforts, combined with an improving economic backdrop, make me even more confident in 3M's future."
 
For the second consecutive quarter, 3M increased its full-year 2010 performance expectations. The company now expects organic sales volumes to grow 10 to 12 percent versus a prior expected range of 5 to 7 percent. Operating income margins, previously anticipated to be in the range of 21 to 22 percent, are now expected to exceed 22 percent for the year. Finally, the company expects that per-share earnings will be in the range of $5.40 to $5.60, excluding the Medicare Part D-related charge, versus a prior expected range of $4.90 to $5.10.
 
Key Financial Highlights
First-quarter worldwide sales totaled $6.3 billion, up 24.7 percent compared to the first quarter of 2009. Local-currency sales including acquisitions increased 19.8 percent and foreign exchange impacts added 5 percent to sales growth in the quarter.
Total sales grew at a double-digit rate in each of the company's six business segments, with Display and Graphics up 42.4 percent; Electro and Communications up 38.6 percent; Industrial and Transportation up 29.3 percent; Safety, Security and Protection Services up 20.4 percent; Consumer and Office up 14.7 percent; and Health Care up 12 percent. Similarly, all geographic regions posted double-digit sales growth, led by Asia Pacific at 54.1 percent and the combined Latin America/Canada region at 25.9 percent.
 
First-quarter net income was $1.014 billion, or $1.40 per share, versus $563 million, or $0.81 per share, in the first quarter of 2009, excluding special items (a-b). Total-company operating income margins were 22.8 percent for the quarter, with all six business segments at 20 percent or better.
 
Business Segment Discussion
(All figures are on GAAP basis and include the impact of special items (b))
 
Industrial and Transportation
                 
Sales increased 29.3 percent to $2.1 billion.
                 
Sales rose 23.7 percent in local currency; currency impacts added 5.6 percent to sales.
                 
Double-digit local-currency sales growth across much of the portfolio, led by automotive OEM at 67 percent, renewable energy at 64 percent and industrial adhesives and tapes at 26 percent; profits expanded in all businesses.
                 
Sales in local currency rose 50 percent in Asia Pacific, and all geographies drove double-digit growth in both sales and profits.
                 
Operating income of $454 million; operating margins improved by 11 percentage points year-on-year to 21.9 percent.
 
Health Care
                 
Sales of $1.1 billion, up 12 percent year-on-year.
                 
Sales up 7.6 percent in local currency; currency impacts added 4.6 percent to sales.
                 
Double-digit local-currency sales growth in core areas of infection prevention and skin and wound care; solid single-digit growth in oral care, drug delivery and health information systems.
                 
Broad-based performance drove positive sales and profit growth in all geographic regions.
                 
Operating income increased 13.2 percent to $347 million; operating margins were 31.1 percent.
 
Consumer and Office
                 
Sales increased 14.7 percent year-on-year to $912 million.
                 
Sales up 10.7 percent in local currency, which includes 2.6 percentage points from acquisitions; currency impacts added 4 percent to sales growth.
                 
Double-digit local-currency sales growth in home care products, particularly Scotch-Brite scrubbing solutions for the home, and in consumer health care, driven by recent acquisitions.
                 
Positive local-currency growth in all other businesses, including do-it-yourself, stationery products and office supplies.
                 
Local-currency sales grew in all geographic regions, led by double-digit increases in Latin America and in the United States.
                 
Operating income increased 32.7 percent to $219 million; operating margins were 24 percent.
Display and Graphics
                 
Sales of $869 million, up 42.4 percent year-on-year.
                 
Sales rose 38.4 percent in local currency; currency impacts added 4 percent to global sales.
                 
Positive local-currency sales growth and double-digit profit growth in all major businesses and geographic regions, particularly Asia Pacific and Latin America.
                 
Improved economic conditions drove sequential improvement in commercial graphics' sales.
                 
Sales doubled in optical systems versus a soft year-on-year comparison; new film solutions for eco-friendly and LED-back-lit televisions continue to drive additional sales.
                 
Operating income increased 254 percent to $212 million, with margins of 24.3 percent.
 
Safety, Security and Protection Services
                 
Sales rose 20.4 percent year-on-year to $809 million.
                 
Local-currency sales up 14.7 percent year-on-year; currency translation added 5.7 percent to sales.
                 
Sales growth led by the personal protection products business, despite a tapering off in H1N1-related demand; also drove positive local-currency sales growth in roofing granules and in the building and commercial services business.
                 
Double-digit local-currency sales growth in all geographic regions.
                 
Operating income increased 46.1 percent to $181 million, with strong operating margins of 22.4 percent.
 
Electro and Communications
                 
Sales of $665 million, up 38.6 percent year-on-year.
                 
Sales rose 34.3 percent in local currency; currency impacts added 5.3 percent to sales.
                 
Majority of growth driven by electronics-related businesses in Asia along with electrical products for power infrastructure; commercial construction and telecom infrastructure industries remain challenging.
                 
Sales expanded in all geographic regions.
                 
Operating income increased more than six-fold to $137 million, with margins of 20.6 percent.
 
George W. Buckley and Patrick D. Campbell, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will conduct an investor teleconference at 9 a.m. Eastern Time (8 a.m. Central Time) today. Investors can access a Webcast of this conference, along with related charts and materials, at http://investor.3M.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking information about 3M's financial results and estimates and business prospects that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the use of words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "target," "forecast" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or business plans or prospects. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: (1) worldwide economic and capital markets conditions; (2) the Company's credit ratings and its cost of capital; (3) competitive conditions and customer preferences; (4) foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; (5) the timing and acceptance of new product offerings; (6) the
availability and cost of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives) due to shortages, increased demand or supply interruptions (including those caused by natural and other disasters and other events); (7) the impact of acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures, and other unusual events resulting from portfolio management actions and other evolving business strategies, and possible organizational restructuring; (8) generating fewer productivity improvements than estimated; and (9) legal proceedings, including significant developments that could occur in the legal and regulatory proceedings described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the "Report"). Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. A further description of these factors is located in the Report under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A. The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
About 3M
A recognized leader in research and development, 3M produces thousands of innovative products for dozens of diverse markets. 3M's core strength is applying its more than 40 distinct technology platforms  often in combination  to a wide array of customer needs. With $23 billion in sales, 3M employs 75,000 people worldwide and has operations in more than 65 countries.
 
 
In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the company also discusses non-GAAP measures that exclude special items. Operating income, net income attributable to 3M (hereafter referred to as "net income"), and diluted earnings per share attributable to 3M common shareholders (hereafter referred to as "diluted earnings per share") are all measures for which 3M provides the reported GAAP measure and an adjusted measure (excluding special items). Special items are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. Special items represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of the company's ongoing operations. The company uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate and manage the company's operations. The company believes that discussion of results excluding special items provides a useful analysis of ongoing operating trends. The determination of special items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for the three-months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009.
 
 
 
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP operating income measure by business segment with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for the three-months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. As discussed in more detail later in the section entitled "Business Segments," 3M made certain product moves between its business segments in the first quarter of 2010. Segment information for all periods presented has been reclassified to reflect these changes.
 
 
 
 
 
(c)
         
Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company believes free cash flow is a useful measure of performance and uses this measure as an indication of the strength of the company and its ability to generate cash.
 
(d)
        
The company uses various working capital measures that place emphasis and focus on certain working capital assets and liabilities. 3M's net working capital index is defined as quarterly net sales multiplied by four, divided by ending net accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable. This measure is not recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
Sales Change Analysis
By Geographic Area
 
 
Worldwide
Sales Change Analysis
By Business Segment
 
 
Effective in the first quarter of 2010, 3M made certain product moves between its business segments in its continuing effort to drive growth by aligning businesses around markets and customers. There were no changes to business segments related to product moves for the Health Care segment, Consumer and Office segment, Display and Graphics segment, or Electro and Communications segment. In addition, 3M results in total did not change. The financial information presented herein reflects for all periods presented the impact of product moves between business segments, which are summarized as follows:
 
Certain acoustic systems products in the Occupational Health and Environmental Safety Division (part of the Safety, Security and Protection Services business segment) were transferred to the Automotive Division within the Industrial and Transportation business segment. In addition, thermal acoustics systems products which were included in the Occupational Health and Environmental Safety Division as a result of 3M's April 2008 acquisition of Aearo Holding Corp. were transferred to the Aerospace and Aircraft Maintenance Department within the Industrial and Transportation business segment. These product moves establish an acoustic center of excellence within the Industrial and Transportation business segment. The preceding product moves resulted in an increase in net sales for total year 2009 of $116 million for Industrial and Transportation, which was offset by a corresponding decrease in net sales for Safety, Security and Protection Services.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION NET SALES
(Millions)
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION OPERATING INCOME
(Millions)
 
 
For the three-months ended  March 31, 2009, refer to the preceding note (b) and the preceding reconciliation of operating income by business segment for a discussion and summary of items that impacted reported business segment operating income.
 
 
 
From:
3M Public Relations and Corporate Communications
3M Center, Building 225-1S-15
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000
 


