FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20110929123437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
                
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
The exhibits filed herewith are exhibits to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (file no. 333-176082) of 3M Company (the "Company"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 5, 2011.  On September 26, 2011, the Company entered into a Terms Agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and UBS Securities LLC relating to the sale of $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.375% Notes due 2016, issued off of the Company's $3,000,000,000 Medium-Term Notes Program, Series F.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 1.1
 
Execution Version
 
September 26, 2011
 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, New York 10013
 
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
60 Wall Street
New York, New York 10005
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
200 West Street
New York, New York 10282
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
1585 Broadway, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10036
 
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue, 3rd Floor
New  York, New York 10179
 
UBS Securities LLC
677 Washington Boulevard Stamford, Connecticut 06901
 
Dear Sirs:
 
3M Company (the "Company") proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein and in the Distribution Agreement, dated September 2, 2011 (the "Distribution Agreement"), between the Company on the one hand and Goldman, Sachs & Co., Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and UBS Securities LLC (the "Agents") on the other, to issue and sell to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and UBS Securities LLC, the securities specified in Schedule I hereto (the "Purchased Securities").  Each of the provisions of the Distribution Agreement not specifically related to the solicitation by the Agents, as agents of the Company, of offers to purchase Securities is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, and shall be deemed to be part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein.  Nothing contained herein or in the Distribution Agreement shall make any party hereto
an agent of the Company or make such party subject to the provisions therein relating to the solicitation of offers to purchase Securities from the Company, solely by virtue of its execution of this Terms Agreement.  Each of the representations and warranties set forth therein shall be deemed to have been made at and as of the date of this Terms Agreement, except that each representation and warranty in Section 1 of the Distribution Agreement which makes reference to the Prospectus shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty as of the date of the Distribution Agreement in relation to the Prospectus (as therein defined), and also a representation and a warranty as of the date of this Terms Agreement in relation to the Prospectus as amended and supplemented to relate to the Purchased Securities.
 
A supplement to the Prospectus relating to the Purchased Securities, in a form satisfactory to you will be filed with the Commission within the time period specified in Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act of 1933.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Distribution Agreement incorporated herein by reference, the Company agrees to issue and sell to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, and such Agents agree to purchase from the Company the Purchased Securities, at the time and place, in the principal amount and at the purchase price set forth in Schedule I hereto.
 
If one or more of the Agents shall fail at the Time of Delivery to purchase the Purchased Securities (the "Defaulted Securities"), then the nondefaulting Agents shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one of them or one or more other Agents to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; provided however, that if such arrangements shall not have been completed within such 24-hour period, then:
 
(a)           if the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Purchased Securities, the nondefaulting Agents shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective initial obligations under this Terms Agreement bear to the obligations of all nondefaulting Agents under this Terms Agreement; or
 
(b)           if the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Securities exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Purchased Securities, this Terms Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of any nondefaulting Agent.
 
No action taken pursuant to this paragraph above shall relieve any defaulting Agent from liability in respect of its default.  In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Terms Agreement, either the nondefaulting Agents or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Time of Delivery for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements.
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return to us two counterparts hereof, and upon acceptance hereof by you this letter and such acceptance hereof, including those provisions of the Distribution Agreement incorporated herein by reference, shall constitute a binding agreement between you and the Company.
 
Accepted as of the date hereof:
 
 
 
Schedule I
 
TITLE OF PURCHASED SECURITIES:
Medium-Term Notes, Series F, 1.375% due 2016
 
AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:
$1,000,000,000
 
Price to Public: 99.156%
 
PURCHASE PRICE to be paid by Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and UBS Securities LLC:
 
98.906% of the principal amount of the Purchased Securities, plus accrued interest, if any, from September 29, 2011.
 
METHOD OF AND SPECIFIED FUNDS FOR PAYMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE:
 
By wire transfer to a bank account specified by the Company in immediately available funds.
 
INDENTURE:
 
Indenture, dated as of November 17, 2000, as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 29, 2011 and as it may be further supplemented from time to time, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., Trustee
 
APPLICABLE TIME: 4:00 p.m. September 26, 2011 Eastern Time
 
TIME OF DELIVERY: September 29, 2011
 
CLOSING LOCATION: Sidley Austin LLP, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019
 
MATURITY: September 29, 2016
 
INTEREST RATE:
 
1.375% per annum
 
INTEREST PAYMENT DATES:
 
March 29 and September 29 of each year, commencing March 29, 2012
 
DOCUMENTS TO BE DELIVERED:
 
The following documents referred to in the Distribution Agreement shall be delivered as a condition to the Closing:
(l)
                                    
The opinion or opinions of counsel to the Agents referred to in Section 4(h).
(2)
                                
The opinion of counsel to the Company referred to in Section 4(i).
(3)
                                
The accountants' letters referred to in Section 4(j), which shall be delivered on the date hereof with a bring-down comfort letter in form and substance satisfactory to the Agents to be delivered on the date of Closing.
(4)
                                
The officers' certificate referred to in Section 4(k).
 
OTHER PROVISIONS (INCLUDING SYNDICATE PROVISIONS, IF APPLICABLE):
 
Schedule of Agents:
 
Schedule II
None
Schedule III
 
Road Show: None
Exhibit A

EXHIBIT 4.1
[IF A GLOBAL SECURITY, INSERT  THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF.  THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.]
 
[IF DTC IS THE DEPOSITARY, INSERT  UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO 3M COMPANY, OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
 
[INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER.]
The following terms apply to this Security, as and to the extent shown below:
 
 
Terms left blank or marked "N/A", "No", "None" or in a similar manner do not apply to this Security except as otherwise may be specified.
 
Whenever used in this Security, the terms specified above that apply to this Security have the meanings specified above, unless the context requires otherwise.  Other terms used in this Security that are not defined herein but that are defined in the Indenture referred to in Section 1 on the reverse of this Security are used herein as defined therein.
 
* This date shall be the issue date of this Security, unless there is a Predecessor Security, in which case this date shall be the issue date of the first Predecessor Security.
 
3M Company, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, as principal the Principal Amount on the Stated Maturity Date and to pay interest thereon, at the Interest Rate shown above [(computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months)] [OR INSERT APPROPRIATE INTEREST COMPUTATION], [semi-annually] on each Interest Payment Date set forth above from and after the date of this Security and at Maturity until payment of the principal amount hereof has been made or duly provided for.  Each payment of interest due on an Interest Payment Date or the date of Maturity will include interest accrued from and including the last date to which interest has been paid, or made available for payment, or from the Original Issue Date if none has been paid, or made available for payment, to but excluding the Interest Payment Date or the date of Maturity, as the case may be.  Unless this Security is a Security which has been issued upon transfer of, in exchange for, or in replacement of, a Predecessor Security, interest on this Security shall accrue from the Original Issue Date indicated above.  If this Security has been issued upon transfer of, in exchange for, or in replacement of, a Predecessor Security, interest on this Security shall accrue from the last Interest Payment Date to which interest was paid on such Predecessor Security or, if no interest was paid on such Predecessor Security, from the Original Issue Date indicated above.  Any premium and any such installment of interest that is overdue at any time shall also bear interest (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), at the rate per annum at which the principal then bears interest, from the date any such overdue amount first becomes due until it is paid or made available for payment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, interest on any principal, premium or installment of interest that is overdue shall be payable on demand.
Company
 
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered [at the close of business on the 15th calendar day (whether or not a Business Day, as such term is defined in Section 3(c) on the reverse hereof) next preceding such Interest Payment Date (a "")].  If interest is due at Maturity but on a day that is not an Interest Payment Date, interest will be paid to the Person entitled to receive the principal hereof.  Any interest so payable, but not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and such Defaulted Interest either may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Security may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Regular Record Date
 
Currency of Payment
 
Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made in the Specified Currency for such payment, except as provided in this and the next three paragraphs.  The Specified Currency for any payment shall be the currency specified as such on the face of this Security unless, at the time of such payment, such currency is not legal tender for
the payment of public and private debts in the country issuing such currency on the Original Issue Date, in which case the Specified Currency for such payment shall be such coin or currency as at the time of such payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in such country, except as provided in the next sentence.  If the euro is specified on the face of this Security as the Specified Currency for any payment, the Specified Currency for such payment shall be such coin or currency as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in all EMU Countries (as defined in Section 3(c) on the reverse hereof), that, if on any day there are not at least two EMU Countries, or if on any day there are at least two EMU Countries but no coin or currency is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in all EMU Countries, then the Specified Currency for such payment shall be deemed not to be available to the Company on such day.
provided
 
Except as provided in the next paragraph, any payment to be made on this Security in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars will be made in U.S. dollars if the Person entitled to receive such payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in U.S. dollars to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, on or before the tenth day before the payment is to be made.  Such written request may be mailed, hand delivered, telecopied or delivered in any other manner approved by the Trustee.  Any such request made with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a particular Holder will remain in effect for all later payments on this Security payable to such Holder, unless such request is revoked on or before the tenth day before a payment is to be made, in which case such revocation shall be effective for such and all later payments.  In the case of any payment of interest payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be made by the Person who is the registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record Date.
 
The U.S. dollar amount of any payment made pursuant to the preceding paragraph will be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent based upon the highest bid quotation received by the Exchange Rate Agent as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date, from three (or, if three are not available, then two) recognized foreign exchange dealers selected by the Exchange Rate Agent in The City of New York, in each case for the purchase by the quoting dealer, for U.S. dollars and for settlement on such payment date of an amount of the Specified Currency for such payment equal to the aggregate amount of such Specified Currency payable on such payment date to all Holders of Securities of this or any other series who elect to receive U.S. dollar payments on such payment date, and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract.  If the Exchange Rate Agent determines that two such bid quotations are not available on such second Business Day, such payment will be made in the Specified Currency for such payment.  All currency exchange costs associated with any payment in U.S. dollars on this Security will be borne by the Holder entitled to receive such payment, by deduction from such payment.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount payable on this Security is payable on any day (including at Maturity) in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, and if such Specified Currency is not available to the Company on the two Business Days before such day, due to the imposition of exchange controls, disruption in a currency market or any other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligation to pay such amount in such Specified Currency by making such payment in U.S. dollars.  The amount of such payment in U.S. dollars shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the basis of
the noon buying rate for cable transfers in The City of New York for such Specified Currency (the "") as of the latest day before the day on which such payment is to be made.  Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in other than U.S. dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under the Indenture or this Security.
Exchange Rate
 
Manner of Payment - U.S. Dollars
 
Except as provided in the next paragraph, payment of any amount payable on this Security in U.S. dollars will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose), against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date); , , that, at the option of the Company and subject to the next paragraph, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
 
Payment of any amount payable on this Security in U.S. dollars will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with a bank located in The City of New York, if (i) the principal of this Security is at least $1,000,000 and (ii) the Holder entitled to receive such payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in such manner to the Paying Agent at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Finance Group, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., on or before the tenth day before the day on which such payment is to be made; that, in the case of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures.  Any such request made with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a particular Holder will remain in effect for all later payments on this Security payable to such Holder, unless such request is revoked on or before the tenth day before a payment is to be made, in which case such revocation shall be effective for such and all later payments.  In the case of any payment of interest payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be made by the Person who is the registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record Date.  If principal or another amount besides interest is due on this Security at Maturity, the Company will pay the amount to the Holder of this Security against surrender hereof at a proper place of payment or, in the case of a Global Security, as provided below in accordance with the applicable policies of the Depositary.  The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with making payments by wire transfer with respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon any payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may be deducted from the payment by the Company or the Paying Agent.
provided
 
Manner of Payment - Other Specified Currencies
 
Payment of any amount payable on this Security in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account as is
maintained in such Specified Currency at a bank or other financial institution acceptable to the Company and the Trustee and as shall have been designated at least ten days prior to the applicable payment date by the Person entitled to receive such payment; that, in the case of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures.  Such account designation shall be made by transmitting the appropriate information to the Paying Agent at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Finance Group, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., by mail, hand delivery, telecopier or in any other manner approved by the Trustee.  Unless revoked, any such account designation made with respect to this Security by the Holder hereof will remain in effect with respect to any further payments with respect to this Security payable to such Holder.  If a payment in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars with respect to this Security cannot be made by wire transfer because the required account designation has not been received by the Paying Agent on or before the requisite date or for any other reason, the Company will cause a notice to be given to the Holder of this Security at its registered address requesting an account designation pursuant to which such wire transfer can be made and such payment will be made within five Business Days after the Paying Agent's receipt of such a designation meeting the requirements specified above, with the same force and effect as if made on the due date.  The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with making payments by wire transfer with respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon any payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may be deducted from the payment by the Company or the Paying Agent.
provided
 
Manner of Payment - Global Securities
 
Notwithstanding any provision of this security or the Indenture, if this Security is a Global Security, the Company may make any and all payments of principal, premium and interest on this Security pursuant to the applicable policies of the Depositary for this Security as permitted in the Indenture.
 
Payments Due on a Business Day
 
Unless otherwise specified on the face of this Security, the following sentence shall apply to this Security.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the Indenture, if any amount of principal, premium or interest would otherwise be due on this Security on a day (the "") that is not a Business Day, such amount may be paid or made available for payment on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if such amount were paid on the Specified Day and an additional interest will accrue with respect to the payment made on that next succeeding Business Day..  The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to this Security in lieu of the provisions of Section 113 of the Indenture.
Specified Day
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the Indenture.
 
Dated:
 
1.            
Securities and Indenture
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "") issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of November 17, 2000 as amended or supplemented from time to time (herein called the "", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
 
2.            
Series and Denominations
 
This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited to an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $3,000,000,000 (or the equivalent thereof in any other currency or currencies or currency units), which amount may be increased at the option of the Company if in the future it determines that it may wish to sell additional Securities of this series.  References herein to "" mean the series of securities designated on the face hereof.
this series
 
The Company may create and issue additional Securities with the same terms as this Security, so that the additional Securities will be considered as part of the same issuance as the earlier issuance.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in "", which term shall have the following meaning.  Unless otherwise specified, for each Security of this series having a principal amount payable in U.S. dollars, the Authorized Denominations shall be $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  Unless otherwise specified, for each Security of this series having a principal amount payable in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, the Authorized Denominations shall be the amount of such Specified Currency equivalent, at the Exchange Rate on the first Business Day next preceding the date on which the Company accepts the offer to purchase such Security, to $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof
Authorized Denominations
 
3.            
Interest Rate
 
(a)             Payments of interest hereon with respect to any Interest Payment Date or at the Maturity of the principal hereof will include interest accrued to but excluding such Interest Payment Date or the date of such Maturity, as the case may be.
.
Calculation of Interest
 
All percentages resulting from any calculation with respect to this Security will be rounded upward or downward, as appropriate, to the next higher or lower one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point (, 9.876541% (or .09876541) being rounded down to 9.87654% (or .0987654) and 9.876545% (or .09876545) being rounded up to 9.87655% (or .0987655) ).  All amounts used in or resulting from any calculation with respect to this Security will be rounded upward or downward, as appropriate, to the nearest cent, in the case of U.S.
e.g.
dollars, or to the nearest corresponding hundredth of a unit, in the case of a currency other than U.S. dollars, with one-half cent or one-half of a corresponding hundredth of a unit or more being rounded upward.
 
(b)             The Company has initially appointed the institution named on the face of this Security as Exchange Rate Agent, to act as such agent with respect to this Security, but the Company may, in its sole discretion, appoint any other institution (including any Affiliate of the Company) to serve as such agent from time to time.  The Company will give the Trustee prompt written notice of any change in any such appointment.  Insofar as this Security provides for any such agent to obtain rates, quotes or other data from a bank, dealer or other institution for use in making any determination hereunder, such agent may do so from any institution or institutions of the kind contemplated hereby notwithstanding that any one or more of such institutions are any such agent, Affiliates of any such agent or Affiliates of the Company.
.
Exchange Rate Agent
 
All determinations made by the Exchange Rate Agent may be made by such agent in its sole discretion and, absent manifest error, shall be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Security and the Company.  The Exchange Rate Agent shall not have any liability therefor.
 
(c)             As used in this Security, the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
.
Definitions of Terms
 
"" means, for this Security, a day that meets the requirements set forth in each of clauses (i) through (iv) below, in each case to the extent such requirements apply to this Security as specified below:
Business Day
 
(i)            is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close;
 
(ii)           if the Specified Currency for payment of principal of or interest on this Security is other than U.S. dollars or euros, is also a day on which banking institutions in the principal financial center of the country issuing such Specified Currency are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close;
 
(iii)          if the Specified Currency for payment of principal of or interest on this Security is euros, is also a TARGET Business Day; and
 
(iv)          solely with respect to any payment or other action to be made or taken at any Place of Payment outside The City of New York, is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in such Place of Payment generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
With respect to any particular location, the close of business on any day on which business is not being conducted at that location shall be deemed to mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on that day.
 
"" means, at any time, the countries (if any) then participating in the European Economic and Monetary Union (or any successor union) pursuant to the Treaty on European Union of February 1992 (or any successor treaty), as it may be amended from time to time.
EMU Countries
 
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System, or any successor system, is open for business.
TARGET Business Day
 
References in this Security to U.S. dollars shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in the United States of America.
 
References in this Security to the euro shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency (if any) that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in all EMU Countries.
 
References in this Security to a particular currency other than U.S. dollars and euros shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in the country issuing such currency on the Original Issue Date.
 
4.            
Redemption at the Company's Option
 
Unless a Redemption Commencement Date is specified on the face hereof, this Security shall not be redeemable at the option of the Company before the Stated Maturity Date.  If a Redemption Commencement Date is so specified, and unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, this Security is subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' nor more than 60 days' notice at any time and from time to time on or after the Redemption Commencement Date, in each case as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company and at the applicable Redemption Price specified on the face hereof (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount of this Security to be redeemed), together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments due on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date, all as provided in the Indenture.
 
5.            
Repayment at the Holder's Option
 
Except as otherwise may be provided on the face hereof, if one or more Repayment Dates are specified on the face hereof, this Security will be repayable in whole or in part in an amount equal to any Authorized Denomination ( that the remaining principal amount of any Security surrendered for partial repayment shall at least equal an Authorized Denomination), on any such Repayment Date, in each case at the option of the Holder and at the applicable Repayment Price specified on the face hereof (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount to be repaid), together with accrued interest to the applicable Repayment Date
provided
(but interest installments due on or prior to such Repayment Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date as provided in the Indenture).  If this Security provides for more than one Repayment Date, and the Holder exercises its option to elect repayment, the Holder shall be deemed to have elected repayment on the earliest repayment date after all conditions to such exercise have been satisfied, and references herein to the applicable Repayment Date shall mean such earliest Repayment Date.
 
In order for the exercise of such option to be effective and this Security to be repaid, the Company must receive at the applicable address of the Paying Agent set forth below (or at such other place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holder of this Security), on any Business Day at least 30 but not more than 45 days prior to the applicable Repayment Date (or, if either such calendar day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), either (i) this Security, with the form below entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" duly completed and signed, or (ii) a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter from a member of a national securities exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., a commercial bank or a trust company in the United States of America setting forth (a) the name, address and telephone number of the Holder of this Security, (b) the principal amount of this Security and the amount of this Security to be repaid, (c) a statement that the option to elect repayment is being exercised thereby and (d) a guarantee stating that the Company will receive this Security, with the form below entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" duly completed and signed, not later than five Business Days after the date of such telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter ( that this Security and form duly completed and signed are received by the Company by such fifth Business Day).  Any such election shall be irrevocable.  The address to which such deliveries are to be made is The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company N.A., Attention: Corporate Finance Group, 101 Barclay Street  Floor 8W, New York, NY 10286 (or at such other places as the Company or the Paying Agent shall notify the Holder of this Security).  All questions as to the validity, eligibility (including time of receipt) and acceptance of any Security for repayment will be determined by the Company, whose determination will be final and binding.  Upon any partial repayment, this Security shall be cancelled and a new Security or Securities for the remaining principal amount hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder of this Security.
provided
 
6.            
Transfer and Exchange
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company at the corporate trust office of the Trustee in the City of New York or at the office of the Paying Agent in New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor and terms, of Authorized Denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of
this series and of like tenor of a different Authorized Denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
If this Security is a Global Security, this Security shall be subject to the provisions of the Indenture relating to Global Securities, including the limitations in Section 305 thereof on transfers and exchanges of Global Securities.  In addition to the provisions of Section 305 of the Indenture, if at any time an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to this Security and such Event of Default has not been cured or waived pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities, will authenticate and deliver, Securities in definitive form and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security or Securities in exchange for such Global Security or Securities.
 
7.            
Defeasance.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.  If so specified on the face hereof, either or both of such provisions are applicable to this Security, as so specified.
 
8.            
Remedies.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
9.            
Modification and Waiver.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any
time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.
 
Under the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series or any other series of Outstanding Securities may, on behalf of all Holders of that series, waive compliance by the Company with certain restrictive covenants of the Indenture, and waive any past Event of Default under the Indenture, but in each case only with respect to that series, except an Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on and Securities of that series or an Event of Default under any provision of the Indenture which itself cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holders of each Outstanding Security of that series.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
10.         
Governing Law.
 
This Security and the Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repay the Security referred to in this notice (or the portion thereof specified below) at the applicable Repayment Price, together with interest to the Repayment Date, all as provided for in such Security, to the undersigned, whose name, address and telephone number are as follows:
 
 
If such Security provides for more than one Repayment Date, the undersigned requests repayment on the earliest Repayment Date after the requirements for exercising this option have been satisfied, and references in this notice to the Repayment Date mean such earliest Repayment Date.  Terms used in this notice that are defined in such Security are used herein as defined therein.
 
For such Security to be repaid the Company must receive at the applicable address of the Paying Agent set forth below or at such other place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holder of such Security, any Business Day not later than the 30th or earlier than the 45th calendar day prior to the Repayment Date (or, if either such calendar day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (i) such Security, with this "Option to Elect Repayment" form duly completed and signed, or (ii) a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter from a member of a national securities exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., a commercial bank or a trust company in the United States of America setting forth (a) the name, address and telephone number of the Holder of such Security, (b) the principal amount of such Security and the amount of such Security to be repaid, (c) a statement that the option to elect repayment is being exercised thereby and (d) a guarantee stating that such Security to be repaid with the form entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" on the addendum to the Security duly completed and signed will be received by the Company not later than five Business Days after the date of such telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter
( that such Security and form duly completed and signed are received by the Company by such fifth Business Day).  The address to which such deliveries are to be made is:
provided
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. Attention: Corporate Finance Group 101 Barclay Street  Floor 8W New York, New York 10286
 
or at such other place as the Company or the Paying Agent shall notify the holder of such Security.
 
If less than the entire principal amount of such Security is to be repaid, specify the portion thereof (which shall equal any Authorized Denomination) that the Holder elects to have repaid:
 
 
and specify the denomination or denominations (which shall equal any Authorized Denomination) of the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder in respect of the portion of such Security not being repaid (in the absence of any specification, one Security will be issued in respect of the portion not being repaid):
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this Security, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
TEN COM - as tenants in common
 
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties
 
JT TEN - as joint tenants with the right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 4.2
 
[IF A GLOBAL SECURITY, INSERT  THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF.  THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.]
 
[IF DTC IS THE DEPOSITARY, INSERT  UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO 3M COMPANY, OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
 
[INSERT ANY LEGEND REQUIRED BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER]
 
 
The following terms apply to this Security, as and to the extent shown below:
 
*  This date shall be the issue date of this Security, unless there is a Predecessor Security, in which case this date shall be the issue date of the first Predecessor Security.
 
Terms left blank or marked "N/A", "No", "None" or in a similar manner do not apply to this Security except as otherwise may be specified.
 
Whenever used in this Security, the terms specified above that apply to this Security have the meanings specified above, unless the context requires otherwise.  Other terms used in this Security that are not defined herein but that are defined in the Indenture referred to in Section 1 on the reverse of this Security are used herein as defined therein.
 
3M Company, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, as principal the Principal Amount on the Stated Maturity Date and to pay interest thereon, from the Original Issue Date or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, on the Interest Payment Date(s) set forth above and at
Company
the Maturity of the principal hereof, at a rate per annum determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 3 on the reverse hereof, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  Any premium and any such installment of interest that is overdue at any time shall also bear interest (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), at the rate per annum at which the principal then bears interest, from the date any such overdue amount first becomes due until it is paid or made available for payment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, interest on any principal, premium or installment of interest that is overdue shall be payable on demand.
 
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered [at the close of business on the 15th calendar day (whether or not a Business Day, as such term is defined in Section 3(n) on the reverse hereof) next preceding such Interest Payment Date (a "")].  If interest is due at Maturity but on a day that is not an Interest Payment Date, interest will be paid to the Person entitled to receive the principal hereof.  Any interest so payable, but not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and such Defaulted Interest either may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which this Security may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Regular Record Date
 
Currency of Payment
 
Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made in the Specified Currency for such payment, except as provided in this and the next three paragraphs.  The Specified Currency for any payment shall be the currency specified as such on the face of this Security unless, at the time of such payment, such currency is not legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in the country issuing such currency on the Original Issue Date, in which case the Specified Currency for such payment shall be such coin or currency as at the time of such payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in such country, except as provided in the next sentence.  If the euro is specified on the face of this Security as the Specified Currency for any payment, the Specified Currency for such payment shall be such coin or currency as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in all EMU Countries (as defined in Section 3(n) on the reverse hereof), that, if on any day there are not at least two EMU Countries, or if on any day there are at least two EMU Countries but no coin or currency is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in all EMU Countries, then the Specified Currency for such payment shall be deemed not to be available to the Company on such day.
provided
 
Except as provided in the next paragraph, any payment to be made on this Security in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars will be made in U.S. dollars if the Person entitled to receive such payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in U.S. dollars to the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, on or before the tenth day before the
payment is to be made.  Such written request may be mailed, hand delivered, telecopied or delivered in any other manner approved by the Trustee.  Any such request made with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a particular Holder will remain in effect for all later payments on this Security payable to such Holder, unless such request is revoked on or before the tenth day before a payment is to be made, in which case such revocation shall be effective for such and all later payments.  In the case of any payment of interest payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be made by the Person who is the registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record Date.
 
The U.S. dollar amount of any payment made pursuant to the preceding paragraph will be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent based upon the highest bid quotation received by the Exchange Rate Agent as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second Business Day preceding the applicable payment date, from three (or, if three are not available, then two) recognized foreign exchange dealers selected by the Exchange Rate Agent in The City of New York, in each case for the purchase by the quoting dealer, for U.S. dollars and for settlement on such payment date of an amount of the Specified Currency for such payment equal to the aggregate amount of such Specified Currency payable on such payment date to all Holders of Securities of this or any other series who elect to receive U.S. dollar payments on such payment date, and at which the applicable dealer commits to execute a contract.  If the Exchange Rate Agent determines that two such bid quotations are not available on such second Business Day, such payment will be made in the Specified Currency for such payment.  All currency exchange costs associated with any payment in U.S. dollars on this Security will be borne by the Holder entitled to receive such payment, by deduction from such payment.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount payable on this Security is payable on any day (including at Maturity) in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, and if such Specified Currency is not available to the Company on the two Business Days before such day, due to the imposition of exchange controls, disruption in a currency market or any other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligation to pay such amount in such Specified Currency by making such payment in U.S. dollars.  The amount of such payment in U.S. dollars shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent on the basis of the noon buying rate for cable transfers in The City of New York for such Specified Currency (the "") as of the latest day before the day on which such payment is to be made.  Any payment made under such circumstances in U.S. dollars where the required payment is in other than U.S. dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under the Indenture or this Security.
Exchange Rate
 
Manner of Payment  U.S. Dollars
 
Except as provided in the next paragraph, payment of any amount payable on this Security in U.S. dollars will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose), against surrender of this Security in the case of any payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date); , , that, at the option of the Company and subject to the next paragraph, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
Payment of any amount payable on this Security in U.S. dollars will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the payee with a bank located in The City of New York, if (i) the principal of this Security is at least $1,000,000 and (ii) the Holder entitled to receive such payment transmits a written request for such payment to be made in such manner to the Paying Agent at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Finance Group, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., on or before the tenth day before the day on which such payment is to be made; that, in the case of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures.  Any such request made with respect to any payment on this Security payable to a particular Holder will remain in effect for all later payments on this Security payable to such Holder, unless such request is revoked on or before the tenth day before a payment is to be made, in which case such revocation shall be effective for such and all later payments.  In the case of any payment of interest payable on an Interest Payment Date, such written request must be made by the Person who is the registered Holder of this Security on the relevant Regular Record Date.  If principal or another amount besides interest is due on this Security at Maturity, the Company will pay the amount to the Holder of this Security against surrender hereof at a proper place of payment or, in the case of a Global Security, as provided below in accordance with the applicable policies of the Depositary.  The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with making payments by wire transfer with respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon any payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may be deducted from the payment by the Company or the Paying Agent.
provided
 
Manner of Payment  Other Specified Currencies
 
Payment of any amount payable on this Security in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account as is maintained in such Specified Currency at a bank or other financial institution acceptable to the Company and the Trustee and as shall have been designated at least ten days prior to the applicable payment date by the Person entitled to receive such payment; that, in the case of any such payment due at the Maturity of the principal hereof (other than any payment of interest that first becomes due on an Interest Payment Date), this Security must be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York (or at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose) in time for the Paying Agent to make such payment in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures.  Such account designation shall be made by transmitting the appropriate information to the Paying Agent at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Finance Group, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., by mail, hand delivery, telecopier or in any other manner approved by the Trustee.  Unless revoked, any such account designation made with respect to this Security by the Holder hereof will remain in effect with respect to any further payments with respect to this Security payable to such Holder.  If a payment in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars with respect to this Security cannot be made by wire transfer because the required account designation has not been received by the Paying Agent on or before the requisite date or for any other reason, the Company will cause a notice to be given to the Holder of this Security
provided
at its registered address requesting an account designation pursuant to which such wire transfer can be made and such payment will be made within five Business Days after the Paying Agent's receipt of such a designation meeting the requirements specified above, with the same force and effect as if made on the due date.  The Company will pay any administrative costs imposed by banks in connection with making payments by wire transfer with respect to this Security, but any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon any payment will be borne by the Holder of this Security and may be deducted from the payment by the Company or the Paying Agent.
 
Manner of Payment  Global Securities
 
Notwithstanding any provision of this security or the Indenture, if this Security is a Global Security, the Company may make any and all payments of principal, premium and interest on this Security pursuant to the applicable policies of the Depositary for this Security as permitted in the Indenture.
 
Payments Due on a Business Day
 
Unless otherwise specified on the face of this Security, the following sentence shall apply to this Security.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Security or the Indenture, if any amount of principal, premium or interest would otherwise be due on this Security at Maturity on a day (the "") that is not a Business Day, such amount may be paid or made available for payment on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if such amount were paid on the Specified Day.  The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to this Security in lieu of the provisions of Section 113 of the Indenture.
Specified Day
 
Unless otherwise specified on the face of this Security, the following sentence shall apply to each Interest Payment Date other than one that falls on the date of Maturity of the principal hereof.  If any such Interest Payment Date would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be deferred to the next succeeding Business Day, provided that, if the Base Rate is LIBOR or EURIBOR and the next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, then such Interest Payment Date will be advanced to the next preceding Business Day.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein and referred to in the Indenture.
 
Dated:
 
1.            
Securities and Indenture
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities") issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of November 17, 2000 as amended or supplemented from time to time (herein called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
 
2.            
Series and Denominations
 
This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited to an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $3,000,000,000 (or the equivalent thereof in any other currency or currencies or currency units), which amount may be increased at the option of the Company if in the future it determines that it may wish to sell additional Securities of this series.  References herein to "this series" mean the series of securities designated on the face hereof.
 
The Company may create and issue additional Securities with the same terms as this Security, so that the additional Securities will be considered as part of the same issuance as the earlier issuance.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in "Authorized Denominations", which term shall have the following meaning.  Unless otherwise specified, for each Security of this series having a principal amount payable in U.S. dollars, the Authorized Denominations shall be $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  Unless otherwise specified, for each Security of this series having a principal amount payable in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, the Authorized Denominations shall be the amount of such Specified Currency equivalent, at the Exchange Rate on the first Business Day next preceding the date on which the Company accepts the offer to purchase such Security, to $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 
3.            
Interest Rate
 
(a)           .  The interest rate on this Security will be reset from time to time, as provided in this Section 3, and each date upon which such rate is reset as so provided is hereinafter called an "".  Unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, the Interest Reset Dates with respect to this Security will be as follows:
Interest Rate Reset
Interest Reset Date
 
(i)            if the Interest Reset Period is daily, each Business Day;
 
(ii)           if the Interest Reset Period is weekly and the Base Rate is not the Treasury Rate, the Wednesday of each week;
(iii)          if the Interest Reset Period is weekly and the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate, except as otherwise provided in the definition of "Treasury Interest Determination Date" in Section 3(n) below, the Tuesday of each week;
 
(iv)          if the Interest Reset Period is monthly, the third Wednesday of each month;
 
(v)           if the Interest Reset Period is quarterly, the third Wednesday of each March, June, September and December;
 
(vi)          if the Interest Reset Period is semi-annual, the third Wednesday of each of two months in each year specified under "Interest Reset Period" on the face hereof; and
 
(vii)         if the Interest Reset Period is annual, the third Wednesday of the month in each year specified under "Interest Reset Period" on the face hereof;
 
provided
, , that (x) the Base Rate in effect from the Original Issue Date to but excluding the first Interest Reset Date will be the Initial Base Rate and (y) if the Interest Reset Period is daily or weekly, the Base Rate in effect for each day following the second Business Day immediately prior to an Interest Payment Date to but excluding such Interest Payment Date, and for each day following the second Business Day immediately prior to the day of Maturity of the principal hereof to but excluding such day of Maturity, will be the Base Rate in effect on such applicable second Business Day; and , , that, if any Interest Reset Date would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date shall be the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, except that, unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, if the Base Rate is LIBOR or EURIBOR and such next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day.
however
provided
further
 
Subject to applicable provisions of law and except as otherwise specified herein, on each Interest Reset Date the interest rate on this Security shall be the rate determined in accordance with such of the following Sections 3(b) through 3(j) as provide for determination of the Base Rate for this Security.  The Calculation Agent shall determine the interest rate of this Security in accordance with the applicable Section below.
 
Unless the Base Rate is LIBOR or EURIBOR, the Calculation Agent will determine the interest rate of this Security that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date on a day no later than the Calculation Date (as defined in Section 3(n) below) corresponding to such Interest Reset Date.  However, the Calculation Agent need not wait until the Calculation Date to determine such interest rate if the rate information it needs to make such determination in the manner specified in the applicable provisions of Sections 3(b) through 3(j) hereof is available from the relevant sources specified in such applicable provisions.
 
Upon request of the Holder to the Calculation Agent, the Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect on this Security and, if determined, the interest rate that will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date.
(b)           .  If the Base Rate is the Commercial Paper Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the Money Market Yield (as defined in Section 3(n) below) of the rate, for the second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the ""), for commercial paper having the Index Maturity, as published in H.15(519) (as defined in Section 3(n) below) under the heading "Commercial paper  Nonfinancial".  If the Commercial Paper Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in determining the Commercial Paper Rate:
Determination of Commercial Paper Rate
Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date
 
(i)            If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Calculation Date (as defined in Section 3(n) below) corresponding to such Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), then the Commercial Paper Rate will be the rate, for such Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date, for commercial paper having the Index Maturity, as published in H.15 Daily Update (as defined in Section 3(n) below) or any other recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, under the heading "Commercial Paper Nonfinancial".
 
(ii)           If the rate described in clause (i) above does not appear in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the following offered rates for U.S. dollar commercial paper that has the Index Maturity and is placed for an industrial issuer whose bond rating is "AA", or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized rating agency:  the rates offered as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on such Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date by three leading U.S. dollar commercial paper dealers in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.
 
(iii)          If fewer than three dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in clause (ii) above, the Commercial Paper Rate shall be the Commercial Paper Rate in effect on such Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).
 
The Base Rate determined in accordance with this Section 3(b) will be adjusted by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, or by multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any.
 
(c)           .  If the Base Rate is the Prime Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the rate, for the second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the ""), published in H.15(519) under the heading "Bank prime loan".  If the Prime Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in determining the Prime Rate:
Determination of Prime Rate
Prime Interest Determination Date
(i)            If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Calculation Date corresponding to such Prime Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), then the Prime Rate will be the rate, for such Prime Interest Determination Date, as published in H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying that rate, under the heading "Bank prime loan".
 
(ii)           If the rate described in clause (i) above does not appear in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), then the Prime Rate will be the arithmetic mean of the following rates as they appear on the Reuters Page USPRIME1 (as defined in Section 3(n) below):  the rate of interest publicly announced by each bank appearing on that page as that bank's prime rate or base lending rate, as of 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on such Prime Interest Determination Date.
 
(iii)          If fewer than four of the rates referred to in clause above appear on the Reuters Page USPRIME1, the Prime Rate will be the arithmetic mean of the Prime Rates or base lending rates, as of the close of business on such Prime Interest Determination Date, of three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.  For this purpose, the Calculation Agent will use rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by a 360-day year.
 
(iv)          If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in clause (iii) above, the Prime Rate shall be the Prime Rate in effect on such Prime Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).
 
The Base Rate determined in accordance with this Section 3(c) will be adjusted by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, or by multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any.
 
(d)           .  If the Base Rate is LIBOR, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall be LIBOR on the corresponding LIBOR Interest Determination Date (as defined in Section 3(n) below) and shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions:
Determination of LIBOR
 
(i)            LIBOR will be the offered rate appearing on the Designated LIBOR Page (as defined in Section 3(n) below) as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date for deposits of the Index Currency having the Index Maturity beginning on such Interest Reset Date.
 
(ii)           If no rate appears on the Designated LIBOR Page, then LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market
selected by the Calculation Agent:  deposits of the Index Currency having the Index Maturity beginning on such Interest Reset Date and in a Representative Amount (as defined in Section 3(n) below).  The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each such bank to provide a quotation of its rate.  If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such LIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations.
 
(iii)          If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in clause (i) above, LIBOR for such LIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. in the Principal Financial Center (as defined in Section 3(n) below), on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date, by three major banks in that financial center selected by the Calculation Agent:  loans of the Index Currency having the Index Maturity beginning on such Interest Reset Date and in a Representative Amount.
 
(iv)          If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in clause (ii) above, LIBOR will be the LIBOR in effect on such LIBOR Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).
 
The Base Rate determined in accordance with this Section 3(d) will be adjusted by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, or by multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any.  If the Base Rate is LIBOR and no currency is specified on the face hereof as the Index Currency, the Index Currency shall be U.S. dollars.
 
(e)           .  If the Base Rate is EURIBOR, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the interest rate for deposits in euros designated as "EURIBOR" and sponsored jointly by the European Banking Federation and ACI  the Financial Market Association (or any company established by the joint sponsors for purposes of compiling and publishing that rate) on the second TARGET Business Day (as defined in Section 3(n) below) before such Interest Reset Date (a ""), and will be determined in accordance with the following provisions:
Determination of EURIBOR
EURIBOR Interest Determination Date
 
(i)            EURIBOR will be the offered rate for deposits in euros having the Index Maturity beginning on such Interest Reset Date, as that rate appears on Reuters Page EURIBOR01 (as defined in Section 3(n) below) as of 11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date.
 
(ii)           If the rate described in clause (i) above does not appear on Reuters Page EURIBOR01, EURIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the Euro-Zone (as defined in Section 3(n) below) interbank market by the principal Euro-Zone office of each of four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent:  euro deposits having the Index Maturity beginning on such Interest Reset Date and in a Representative Amount.  The Calculation Agent will request the principal Euro-Zone office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate.  If at least two quotations are provided, EURIBOR for
such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations.
 
(iii)          If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in clause (ii) above, EURIBOR for such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading Euro-Zone banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M., Brussels time, on such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date, by three major banks in the Euro-Zone selected by the Calculation Agent:  loans of euros having the Index Maturity beginning on such Interest Reset Date and in a Representative Amount.
 
(iv)          If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in clause (iii) above, EURIBOR shall be the EURIBOR in effect on such EURIBOR Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).
 
The Base Rate determined in accordance with this Section 3(e) will be adjusted by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, or by multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any.
 
(f)            .  If the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the rate for the auction on the corresponding Treasury Interest Determination Date (as defined in Section 3(n) below) of direct obligations of the United States ("") having the Index Maturity, as that rate appears on Reuters Page USAUCTION10 or USAUCTION11 under the heading "INVESTRATE".  If the Treasury Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in determining the Treasury Rate:
Determination of Treasury Rate
Treasury Bills
 
(i)            If the rate described above does not appear on either Reuters Page USAUCTION10 or USAUCTION11 at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Calculation Date corresponding to such Treasury Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), the Treasury Rate will be the Bond Equivalent Yield (as defined in Section 3(n) below) of the rate, for such Treasury Interest Determination Date and for Treasury Bills having the Index Maturity, as published in H.15 Daily Update, or another recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, under the heading "U.S. government securities/Treasury bills/Auction high".
 
(ii)           If the rate described in clause (i) above does not appear in H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), the Treasury Rate will be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate, for such Treasury Interest Determination Date and for Treasury Bills having the Index Maturity, as announced by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
 
(iii)          If the auction rate described in clause (ii) above is not so announced by 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date, or if no such auction is held
for the relevant week, then the Treasury Rate will be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate, for such Treasury Interest Determination Date and for Treasury Bills having a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity, as published in H.15(519) under the heading "U.S. government securities/Treasury bills/secondary market".
 
(iv)          If the rate described in clause (iii) above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), then the Treasury Rate will be the rate, for such Treasury Interest Determination Date and for Treasury Bills having a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity, as published in H.15 Daily Update, or another recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, under the heading "U.S. government securities/Treasury bills /secondary market".
 
(v)           If the rate described in clause (iv) above does not appear in H.15 Daily Update, H.15(519) or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), the Treasury Rate will be the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the following secondary market bid rates for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity:  the rates bid as of approximately 3:30 P.M., New York City time, on such Treasury Interest Determination Date, by three primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.
 
(vi)          If fewer than three dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in clause (v) above, the Treasury Rate shall be the Treasury Rate in effect on such Treasury Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).
 
The Base Rate determined in accordance with this Section 3(f) will be adjusted by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, or by multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any, specified on the face hereof
 
(g)           .  If the Base Rate is the CMT Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the CMT Rate on the second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the "").  "CMT Rate" means the following rate displayed on the Designated CMT Reuters Page (as defined in Section 3(n) below) under the heading " . . . Treasury Constant Maturities . .", for the Designated CMT Index Maturity (as defined in Section 3(n) below):
Determination of CMT Rate
CMT Interest Determination Date
 
(x)           if the Designated CMT Reuters Page is Reuters Page FRBCMT, the rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date; or
 
(y)           if the Designated CMT Reuters Page is Reuters Page FEDCMT, the weekly or monthly average, as specified on the face hereof, for the week that ends immediately before the week in which such CMT Interest Determination Date falls, or for the month that ends immediately before the month in which such CMT Interest Determination Date falls, as applicable.
If the CMT Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in determining the CMT Rate:
 
(i)            If the applicable rate described above is not displayed on the relevant Designated CMT Reuters Page at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Calculation Date corresponding to such CMT Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), then the CMT Rate will be the applicable Treasury constant maturity rate described above  , for the Designated CMT Index Maturity and for either such CMT Interest Determination Date or the weekly or monthly average, as applicable  as published in H.15(519) opposite the caption "Treasury constant maturities".
i.e.
 
(ii)           If the Designated CMT Reuters Screen Page is FRBCMT and the applicable rate described in clause (i) above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date, unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time, then the CMT Rate will be the Treasury constant maturity rate, or other U.S. Treasury rate, for the Designated CMT Index Maturity and with reference to such CMT Interest Determination Date, that:
 
(a)           is published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and
 
(b)           is determined by the Calculation Agent to be comparable to the applicable rate formerly displayed on the Designated CMT Reuters Page and published in H.15(519).
 
(iii)          If the Designated CMT Reuters Screen Page is FEDCMT and the applicable rate described in clause (ii) does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date, unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time, then the CMT Rate will be the Treasury constant maturity rate, or other U.S. Treasury rate, for the one-week or one-month rate, as applicable, for the Designated CMT Index Maturity and with reference to such CMT Interest Determination Date, that is otherwise announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the week or month, as applicable, immediately preceding such CMT Interest Determination Date.
 
(iv)          If the Designated CMT Reuters Screen Page is FRBCMT and the rate described in the second preceding paragraph does not appear at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such CMT Interest Determination Date, unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time, then the CMT Rate will be the yield to maturity of the arithmetic mean of the following secondary market offered rates for the most recently issued Treasury Notes (as defined in Section 3(n) below) having an original maturity of approximately the Designated CMT Index Maturity and a remaining term to maturity of not less than the Designated CMT Index Maturity minus one year, and in a Representative Amount:  the offered rates, as of approximately 3:30 P.M., New York City time, on the CMT Interest Determination Date, of three primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City selected by the Calculation
Agent.  In selecting such offered rates, the Calculation Agent will request quotations from five of these primary dealers and will disregard the highest quotation  or, if there is equality, one of the highest  and the lowest quotation  or, if there is equality, one of the lowest.  If fewer than five but more than two such offered rates are provided, the CMT Rate will be based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices provided, and neither the highest nor lowest of such quotations will be eliminated.  Treasury notes are direct, non-callable, fixed rate obligations of the U.S. government.
 
(v)           If the Designated CMT Reuters Screen Page is FEDCMT and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York does not publish a one-week or one-month rate, as applicable, for U.S. Treasury securities on the CMT Interest Determination Date, unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time, then the CMT Rate will be the yield to maturity of the arithmetic mean of the following secondary market offered rates for the most recently issued Treasury Notes having an original maturity of approximately the Designated CMT Index Maturity and a remaining term to maturity of not less than the Designated CMT Index Maturity minus one year, and in a Representative Amount:  the offered rates, as of approximately 3:30 P.M., New York City time, on the the CMT Interest Determination Date, of three primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.  In selecting these offered rates, the Calculation Agent will request quotations from five of these primary dealers and will disregard the highest quotation  or, if there is equality, one of the highest  and the lowest quotation  or, if there is equality, one of the lowest.  If fewer than five but more than two such offered rates are provided, the CMT Rate will be based on the arithmetic mean of the bid prices provided, and neither the highest nor lowest of such quotations will be eliminated.
 
(vi)          If the Calculation Agent is unable to obtain three quotations of the kind described in clauses (iv) and (v) above, the CMT Rate will be the yield to maturity of the arithmetic mean of the following secondary market offered rates for Treasury Notes having an original maturity longer than the Designated CMT Index Maturity, having a remaining term to maturity closest to the Designated CMT Index Maturity and in a Representative Amount:  the offered rates, as of approximately 3:30 P.M., New York City time, on such CMT Interest Determination Date, of three primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.  In selecting such offered rates, the Calculation Agent will request quotations from five such primary dealers and will disregard the highest quotation  or, if there is equality, one of the highest  and the lowest quotation  or, if there is equality, one of the lowest.  If two Treasury Notes with an original maturity longer than the CMT Designated Index Maturity have remaining terms to maturity that are equally close to the Designated CMT Index Maturity, the Calculation Agent will obtain quotations for the Treasury Note with the shorter remaining term to maturity.
 
(vii)         If fewer than five but more than two such primary dealers are quoting as described in each of clauses (iv), (v) and (vi) above, then the CMT Rate for such CMT Interest Determination Date will be based on the arithmetic mean of the offered rates so obtained, and neither the highest nor the lowest of such quotations will be disregarded.
 
(viii)        If two or fewer primary dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in clause (vii) above, the CMT Rate shall be the CMT Rate in effect on such CMT Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).
 
The Base Rate determined in accordance with this Section 3(g) will be adjusted by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, or by multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any.
 
(h)           .  If the Base Rate is the CD Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the rate, on the second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the ""), for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity as published in H.15(519) under the heading "CDs (secondary market)".  If the CD Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in determining the CD Rate:
Determination of CD Rate
CD Interest Determination Date
 
(i)            If the rate described above does not appear in H.15(519) at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Calculation Date corresponding to such CD Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), then the CD Rate shall be the rate described above as published in H.15 Daily Update, or another recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, under the heading "CDs (secondary market)".
 
(ii)           If the rate described in clause (i) above does not appear in H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), then CD Rate shall be the arithmetic mean of the following secondary market offered rates for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit of major U.S. money center banks having a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity and in a Representative Amount:  the rates offered as of 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on such CD Interest Determination Date, by three leading nonbank dealers in negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City, as selected by the Calculation Agent.
 
(iii)          If fewer than three dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in clause (ii) above, the CD Rate will be the CD Rate in effect on such CD Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Base Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).
 
The Base Rate determined in accordance with this Section 3(h) will be adjusted by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, or by multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any.
 
(i)            .  If the Base Rate is the Federal Funds Rate, the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the rate, on the second Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date (the ""), for Federal Funds as published in H.15(519) opposite the heading
Determination of Federal Funds Rate
Federal Funds Interest Determination Date
"Federal funds (effective)", as that rate is displayed on Reuters Page FEDFUNDS1 under the heading "Effect." If the Federal Funds Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in determining the Federal Funds Rate:
 
(i)            If the rate described above is not displayed on Reuters Page FEDFUNDS1 at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Calculation Date corresponding to such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from that source at that time), then the Federal Funds Rate will be the rate described above as published in H.15 Daily Update, or another recognized electronic source used for displaying that rate, under the heading "Federal funds (effective)".
 
(ii)           If the rate described in clause (i) above is not displayed on Reuters Page FEDFUNDS1 and does not appear in H.15 (519), H.15 Daily Update or another recognized electronic source at 3:00 P.M., New York City time, on such Calculation Date (unless the calculation is made earlier and the rate is available from one of those sources at that time), the Federal Funds Rate will be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight, U.S. dollar federal funds arranged, before 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date, by three leading brokers of U.S. dollar federal funds transactions in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.
 
(iii)          If fewer than three brokers selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in clause (ii) above, the Federal Funds Rate will be the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such Federal Funds Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).
 
The interest rate determined in accordance with this Section 3(i) will be adjusted by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, or by multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any.
 
(j)            .  If the Base Rate is the Eleventh District Cost of Funds Rate (the ""), the Base Rate that takes effect on any Interest Reset Date shall equal the 11th District Rate on the 11th District Interest Determination Date (as defined in Section 3(n) below) corresponding to such Interest Reset Date.  The 11th District Rate on any 11th District Interest Determination Date shall be the rate equal to the monthly weighted average cost of funds for the calendar month immediately before the month in which such date falls, as displayed on Reuters Page COFI/ARMS under the heading "DistCOFI" as of 11:00 A.M., San Francisco time, on such date.  If the 11th District Rate cannot be determined as described above, the following procedures will apply in determining the 11th District Rate:
Determination of 11th District Rate
11th District Rate
 
(i)            If the rate described above does not appear on Reuters Page COFI/ARMS on such 11th District Interest Determination Date, then the 11th District Rate on such date will be the monthly weighted average cost of funds paid by institutions that are members of the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District for the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which such date falls, as most recently announced by
the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco as such monthly weighted average cost of funds.
 
(ii)           If the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco fails to announce the cost of funds described in clause (i) above on or before such 11th District Interest Determination Date, the 11th District Rate that takes effect on such Interest Reset Date will be the 11th District Rate in effect on such 11th District Interest Determination Date (or, in the case of the first Interest Reset Date, the Initial Base Rate).
 
The interest rate determined in accordance with this Section 3(j) will be adjusted by the addition or subtraction of the Spread, if any, or by multiplying such Base Rate by the Spread Multiplier, if any.
 
(k)           .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the rate at which interest accrues on this Security (i) shall not at any time be higher than the Maximum Rate, if any, or less than the Minimum Rate, if any, specified on the face hereof, in each case on an accrual basis, and (ii) shall not at any time be higher than the maximum rate permitted by New York law, as the same may be modified by United States law of general application.
Minimum and Maximum Limits
 
(l)            .  Payments of interest hereon with respect to any Interest Payment Date or at the Maturity of the principal hereof will include interest accrued to but excluding such Interest Payment Date or the date of such Maturity, as the case may be.  Accrued interest from the date of issue or from the last date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent by multiplying the Principal Amount by an accrued interest factor.  Such accrued interest factor shall be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day from and including the Original Issue Date or from and including the last date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, to but excluding the date for which accrued interest is being calculated.  The interest factor for each such day shall be expressed as a decimal and computed by dividing the interest rate (also expressed as a decimal) in effect on such day by 360, if the Base Rate is the Commercial Paper Rate, Prime Rate, LIBOR, EURIBOR, CD Rate, Federal Funds Rate or 11th District Rate, or by the actual number of days in the year, if the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate or CMT Rate.
Calculation of Interest
 
All percentages resulting from any calculation with respect to this Security will be rounded upward or downward, as appropriate, to the next higher or lower one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point (e.g., 9.876541% (or .09876541) being rounded down to 9.87654% (or .0987654) and 9.876545% (or .09876545) being rounded up to 9.87655% (or .0987655) ).  All amounts used in or resulting from any calculation with respect to this Security will be rounded upward or downward, as appropriate, to the nearest cent, in the case of U.S. dollars, or to the nearest corresponding hundredth of a unit, in the case of a currency other than U.S. dollars, with one-half cent or one-half of a corresponding hundredth of a unit or more being rounded upward.
 
(m)          .  The Company has initially appointed the institutions named on the face of this Security as Calculation Agent and Exchange Rate Agent, respectively, to act as such agents with respect to this Security, but the Company may, in its sole discretion, appoint any other institution (including any Affiliate of the Company)
Calculation Agent and Exchange Rate Agent
to serve as any such agent from time to time.  The Company will give the Trustee prompt written notice of any change in any such appointment.  Insofar as this Security provides for any such agent to obtain rates, quotes or other data from a bank, dealer or other institution for use in making any determination hereunder, such agent may do so from any institution or institutions of the kind contemplated hereby notwithstanding that any one or more of such institutions are any such agent, Affiliates of any such agent or Affiliates of the Company.
 
All determinations made by the Calculation Agent or the Exchange Rate Agent may be made by such agent in its sole discretion and, absent manifest error, shall be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Holder of this Security and the Company.  Neither the Calculation Agent nor the Exchange Rate Agent shall have any liability therefor.
 
(n)           .  As used in this Security, the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions of Calculation Terms
 
"" means a yield expressed as a percentage and calculated in accordance with the following formula:
Bond Equivalent Yield
 
 
*
                                        
"D" equals the annual rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal;
*
                                        
"N" equals 365 or 366, as the case may be; and
*
                                        
"M" equals the actual number of days in the period from and including the relevant Interest Reset Date to but excluding the next succeeding Interest Reset Date.
 
"" means, for this Security, a day that meets the requirements set forth in each of clauses (i) through (v) below, in each case to the extent such requirements apply to this Security as specified below:
Business Day
 
(i)            is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close;
 
(ii)           if the Base Rate is LIBOR, is also a London Business Day;
 
(iii)          if the Specified Currency for payment of principal of or interest on this Security is other than U.S. dollars or euros, is also a day on which banking institutions in the principal financial center of the country issuing such Specified Currency are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close;
(iv)          if the Base Rate is EURIBOR or if the Specified Currency for payment of principal of or interest on this Security is euros, or the Base Rate is LIBOR for which the Index Currency is euros, is also a TARGET Business Day; and
 
(v)           solely with respect to any payment or other action to be made or taken at any Place of Payment outside The City of New York, is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in such Place of Payment generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
 
Solely when used in the third paragraph under the heading "Currency of Payment" on the face of this Security, the meaning of the term "Business Day" shall be determined as if the Base Rate for this Security is neither LIBOR nor EURIBOR.  With respect to any particular location, the close of business on any day on which business is not being conducted at that location shall be deemed to mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on that day.
 
The "" corresponding to any Commercial Paper Interest Determination Date, Prime Interest Determination Date, LIBOR Interest Determination Date, EURIBOR Interest Determination Date, Treasury Interest Determination Date, CMT Interest Determination Date, CD Interest Determination Date, Federal Funds Interest Determination Date or 11th District Interest Determination Date, as the case may be, means the earlier of:
Calculation Date
 
(i)            the tenth calendar day after such interest determination date or, if any such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day; and
 
(ii)           the Business Day immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date or the date of Maturity of the principal hereof, whichever is the day on which the next payment of interest will be due.
 
The Calculation Date corresponding to any Interest Reset Date means the Calculation Date corresponding to the relevant interest determination date immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date.
 
"" means, if the Base Rate is the CMT Rate, the Index Maturity for this Security and will be the original period to maturity of a U.S. Treasury security specified on the face hereof, that, if no such original maturity period is so specified, the Designated CMT Index Maturity will be 2 years.
Designated CMT Index Maturity
provided
 
"" means, if the Base Rate is the CMT Rate, the Reuters Page specified on the face hereof that displays Treasury constant maturities as reported in H.15(519), that, if no Reuters Page is so specified, then the applicable page will be Reuters Page FEDCMT and , , that if Reuters Page FEDCMT applies but it is not specified on the face hereof whether the weekly or monthly average applies, the weekly average will apply.
Designated CMT Reuters Page
provided
provided
further
 
"" means the display on the Reuters 3000 Xtra Service, or any successor service, on the "LIBOR01" page or "LIBOR02" page, as specified on the face
Designated LIBOR Page
hereof, or any replacement page or pages on which London interbank rates of major banks for the relevant index currency are displayed.
 
The "" corresponding to a particular Interest Reset Date will be the last working day, in the first calendar month immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date, on which the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco publishes the monthly average cost of funds paid by member institutions of the Eleventh Federal Home Loan Bank District for the second calendar month immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date.
11th District Interest Determination Date
 
"" means, at any time, the countries (if any) then participating in the European Economic and Monetary Union (or any successor union) pursuant to the Treaty on European Union of February 1992 (or any successor treaty), as it may be amended from time to time.
EMU Countries
 
"" means, at any time, the region comprised of the EMU Countries.
Euro-Zone
 
"" means the weekly statistical release entitled "Statistical Release H.15 (519) Selected Interest Rates", or any successor publication, published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
H.15(519)
 
"" means the daily update of H.15 (519) available through the worldwide web site of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/update/h15supd.htm, or any successor site or publication.
H.15 Daily Update
 
The "" corresponding to any Interest Reset Date means the second London Business Day preceding such Interest Reset Date, unless the Index Currency is pounds sterling, in which case the LIBOR Interest Determination Date will be the Interest Reset Date.
LIBOR Interest Determination Date
 
"" means any day on which dealings in the Index Currency are transacted in the London interbank market.
London Business Day
 
"" means a yield expressed as a percentage and calculated in accordance with the following formula:
Money Market Yield
 
 
*
                                        
"D" equals the per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal; and
*
                                        
"M" equals the actual number of days in the period from and including the relevant Interest Reset Date to but excluding the next succeeding Interest Reset Date.
"" means (i) the capital city of the country issuing the specified currency, or (ii) the capital city of the country to which the index currency, if applicable, relates, except, in each case, that with respect to U.S. dollars, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Euros, South African rand and Swiss francs, the "Principal Financial Center" shall be The City of New York, Sydney, Toronto, London, Johannesburg and Zurich, respectively.
Principal Financial Center
 
"" means an amount that, in the Calculation Agent's judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
Representative Amount
 
"" means the display on the Reuters 3000 Xtra Service, or any successor service, on the page or pages specified in this Security, or any replacement page or pages on that service.
Reuters Page
 
"" means the display on the Reuters 3000 Xtra Service, or any successor service, on the "USPRIME1" page, or any replacement page or pages on which prime rates or base lending rates of major U.S. banks are displayed.
Reuters Page USPRIME1
 
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System, or any successor system, is open for business.
TARGET Business Day
 
The "" corresponding to any Interest Reset Date means the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls on which Treasury bills would normally be auctioned.  If, as the result of a legal holiday, an auction is so held on the Friday in the week immediately preceding the week in which such Interest Reset Day falls, such Friday will be the corresponding Treasury Interest Determination Date.
Treasury Interest Determination Date
 
"" means direct, noncallable, fixed rate obligations of the U.S. government.
Treasury Notes
 
References in this Security to U.S. dollars shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in the United States of America.
 
References in this Security to the euro shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency (if any) that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in all EMU Countries.
 
References in this Security to a particular currency other than U.S. dollars and euros shall mean, as of any time, the coin or currency that is then legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in the country issuing such currency on the Original Issue Date.
 
References in this Security to a particular heading or headings on any of Designated CMT Reuters Page, H.15(519), H.15 Daily Update, Reuters Page FEDFUNDS1, Reuters Page USAUCTION10, Reuters Page USAUCTION11 or Reuters Page COFI/ARMS include any successor or replacement heading or headings as determined by the Calculation Agent.
4.            
Redemption at the Company's Option
 
Unless a Redemption Commencement Date is specified on the face hereof, this Security shall not be redeemable at the option of the Company before the Stated Maturity Date.  If a Redemption Commencement Date is so specified, and unless otherwise specified on the face hereof, this Security is subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' nor more than 60 days' notice at any time and from time to time on or after the Redemption Commencement Date, in each case as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company and at the applicable Redemption Price specified on the face hereof (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount of this Security to be redeemed), together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments due on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date, all as provided in the Indenture.
 
5.            
Repayment at the Holder's Option
 
Except as otherwise may be provided on the face hereof, if one or more Repayment Dates are specified on the face hereof, this Security will be repayable in whole or in part in an amount equal to any Authorized Denomination (provided that the remaining principal amount of any Security surrendered for partial repayment shall at least equal an Authorized Denomination), on any such Repayment Date, in each case at the option of the Holder and at the applicable Repayment Price specified on the face hereof (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount to be repaid), together with accrued interest to the applicable Repayment Date (but interest installments due on or prior to such Repayment Date will be payable to the Holder of this Security, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date as provided in the Indenture).  If this Security provides for more than one Repayment Date, and the Holder exercises its option to elect repayment, the Holder shall be deemed to have elected repayment on the earliest repayment date after all conditions to such exercise have been satisfied, and references herein to the applicable Repayment Date shall mean such earliest Repayment Date.
 
In order for the exercise of such option to be effective and this Security to be repaid, the Company must receive at the applicable address of the Paying Agent set forth below (or at such other place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holder of this Security), on any Business Day at least 30 but not more than 45 days prior to the applicable Repayment Date (or, if either such calendar day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), either (i) this Security, with the form below entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" duly completed and signed, or (ii) a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter from a member of a national securities exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., a commercial bank or a trust company in the United States of America setting forth (a) the name, address and telephone number of the Holder of this Security, (b) the principal amount of this Security and the amount of this Security to be repaid, (c) a statement that the option to elect repayment is being exercised thereby and (d) a guarantee stating that the Company will receive this Security, with the form below entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" duly completed and signed, not later than five Business Days after the date of such telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter ( that this Security and form duly completed and signed are received by the Company by such fifth Business Day).  Any such election shall be irrevocable.
provided
The address to which such deliveries are to be made is The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., Attention: Corporate Finance Group, 101 Barclay Street  Floor 8W, New York, New York 10286 (or at such other places as the Company or the Paying Agent shall notify the Holder of this Security).  All questions as to the validity, eligibility (including time of receipt) and acceptance of any Security for repayment will be determined by the Company, whose determination will be final and binding.  Upon any partial repayment, this Security shall be cancelled and a new Security or Securities for the remaining principal amount hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder of this Security.
 
6.            
Transfer and Exchange
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company at the corporate trust office of the Trustee in the City of New York or at the office of the Paying Agent in New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor and terms, of Authorized Denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different Authorized Denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
If this Security is a Global Security, this Security shall be subject to the provisions of the Indenture relating to Global Securities, including the limitations in Section 305 thereof on transfers and exchanges of Global Securities.  In addition to the provisions of Section 305 of the Indenture, if at any time an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to this Security and such Event of Default has not been cured or waived pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities, will authenticate and deliver, Securities in definitive form and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security or Securities in exchange for such Global Security or Securities.
7.             .
Defeasance
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.  If so specified on the face hereof, either or both of such provisions are applicable to this Security, as so specified.
 
8.             .
Remedies
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
9.             .
Modification and Waiver
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.
 
Under the Indenture, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series or any other series of Outstanding Securities may, on behalf of all Holders of that series, waive compliance by the Company with certain restrictive covenants of the Indenture, and waive any past Event of Default under the Indenture, but in each case only with respect to that series, except an Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on and Securities of that series or an Event of Default under any provision of the Indenture which itself cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holders of each Outstanding Security of that series.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
10.          .
Governing Law
 
This security and the indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repay the Security referred to in this notice (or the portion thereof specified below) at the applicable Repayment Price, together with interest to the Repayment Date, all as provided for in such Security, to the undersigned, whose name, address and telephone number are as follows:
 
 
If such Security provides for more than one Repayment Date, the undersigned requests repayment on the earliest Repayment Date after the requirements for exercising this option have been satisfied, and references in this notice to the Repayment Date mean such earliest Repayment Date. Terms used in this notice that are defined in such Security are used herein as defined therein.
 
For such Security to be repaid the Company must receive at the applicable address of the Paying Agent set forth below or at such other place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holder of such Security, any Business Day not later than the 30th or earlier than the 45th calendar day prior to the Repayment Date (or, if either such calendar day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (i) such Security, with this "Option to Elect Repayment" form duly completed and signed, or (ii) a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter from a member of a national securities exchange or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Inc., a commercial bank or a trust company in the United States of America setting forth (a) the name, address and telephone number of the Holder of such Security, (b) the principal amount of such Security and the amount of such Security to be repaid, (c) a statement that the option to elect repayment is being exercised thereby and (d) a guarantee stating that such Security to be repaid with the form entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" on the addendum to the Security duly completed and signed will be received by the Company not later than five Business Days after the date of such telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter
(provided that such Security and form duly completed and signed are received by the Company by such fifth Business Day). The address to which such deliveries are to be made is:
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. Attention: Corporate Finance Group 101 Barclay Street  Floor 8W New York, New York 10286
 
or at such other place as the Company or the Paying Agent shall notify the holder of such Security.
 
If less than the entire principal amount of such Security is to be repaid, specify the portion thereof (which shall equal any Authorized Denomination) that the Holder elects to have repaid:
 
 
and specify the denomination or denominations (which shall equal any Authorized Denomination) of the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder in respect of the portion of such Security not being repaid (in the absence of any specification, one Security will be issued in respect of the portion not being repaid):
 
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this Security, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
TEN COM       -       as tenants in common
TEN ENT
                          
-       as tenants by the entireties
JT TEN
                                      
-       as joint tenants with the right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
 
 
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 5.1
3M Company
3M Center
St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
 
Re:
                            
3M Company
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-176082)
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
I am the Deputy General Counsel of 3M Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and as such I have acted as counsel in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of $1,000,000,000  principal amount of the Company's 1.375% Notes due 2016, Medium-Term Notes, Series F (the "Securities") pursuant to the Terms Agreement, dated September 26, 2011 (the "Terms Agreement") among the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and UBS Securities LLC and to the Distribution Agreement, dated September 2, 2011 (the "Distribution Agreement"), among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and UBS Securities LLC.  The Securities have been offered pursuant to a Prospectus dated August 5, 2011, a Prospectus Supplement dated September 2, 2011 and a Pricing Supplement dated September 26, 2011.  The Securities will be issued under the Indenture, dated as of November 15, 2000 (the "Original Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Citibank, N.A.), as trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 29, 2011 (the "First Supplemental Indenture" and together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture").  Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Terms Agreement or the Distribution Agreement.
 
I have examined and am familiar with originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of such documents, corporate records, certificates of officers of the Company and of public officials and such other instruments as I have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions expressed below, including the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-176082) (such registration statement, as amended to the date hereof, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, the "Registration Statement"), the Prospectus, the Prospectus Supplement, the Pricing Supplement, the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, the Company's By-Laws, the Indenture, the Securities, the Distribution Agreement and the Terms Agreement.  In such examination, I have assumed the following: (a) the authenticity of original documents and the genuineness of all signatures; (b) the conformity to the originals of all documents submitted to the Company as copies; (c) the truth, accuracy and completeness of the information, representations and warranties contained in the records, documents, instruments and certificates I have reviewed; and (d) the certificates representing the Securities conform as to form to the form of global notes examined by me.
 
Based on such examination, I am of the opinion that the issuance of $1,000,000,000 principal amount of the Securities has been duly authorized by all necessary action by the Board of Directors and the authorized officers of the Company and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms (except to the extent enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by the effect of general principals of equity, regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) when the Securities shall have been duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as provided in the Indenture and shall have been duly delivered to the purchasers thereof against payment of the agreed consideration therefor.
 
The foregoing opinion is limited to the Federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.  I hereby consent to the incorporation by reference of this opinion as an exhibit to the above-referenced Registration Statement to the use of my name wherever it appears in the Registration Statement, Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement.  In giving such consent, I do not thereby admit that I am within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the Act or the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission issued thereunder with respect to any part of the Registration Statement, including this opinion as an exhibit or otherwise.
 


