FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20110315131143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On March 15, 2011, 3M Company issued a press release stating that Patrick D. Campbell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, had announced that he would retire May 1, 2011.
 
The Company also announced the appointment of David W. Meline to Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, effective April 1, 2011.
 
Mr. Meline, 53, has served as the Company's Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since September 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Meline had served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, North America, of General Motors Corporation in Detroit, Michigan from 2007 to 2008, and as Chief Financial Officer, Europe, of General Motors Corporation in Zurich, Switzerland from 2004 to 2007. Mr. Meline first joined General Motors in 1986, and had served in positions of increasing responsibility in GM's Finance and Treasury organizations in locations including Kenya, Brazil and Korea.
 
Mr. Meline will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer.
 
As of the time of the filing of this report, the Company has not entered into any material plan, contract, or arrangement to which Mr. Meline is a party or in which he participates, or any material amendment, in connection with the appointment described above. In the event of such a material plan, contract or arrangement, or material amendment, the Company will file an amendment to this report within four business days thereof.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
A copy of the press release dated March 15, 2011 is attached as Exhibit 99 hereto.
 
The information in the press release is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.
 March 15, 2011  3M today named David Meline Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, effective April 1. Meline, 53, succeeds Pat Campbell, 58, who announced that he will retire May 1.
 
"I thank Pat for his extraordinary contributions during his nine years as CFO. Pat is a world-class CFO who was integral to transforming 3M into a faster-growing and more profitable enterprise. I will miss him a great deal," said George Buckley, 3M Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
 
"David's financial prowess, technical education and international experience make him a perfect fit for 3M," Buckley continued, "I have every confidence that he will help 3M achieve new levels of success."
 
Meline joined 3M in 2008 as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.  Prior to that, he served General Motors as Chief Financial Officer, North America as well as in positions in Europe, Brazil, Kenya and Korea. Meline was awarded an M.S. in Economics from the London School of Economics, an M.B.A. in Finance from the University of Chicago, and a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Iowa State University.
 
About 3M
 
3M captures the spark of new ideas and transforms them into thousands of ingenious products. Our culture of creative collaboration inspires a never-ending stream of powerful technologies that make life better. 3M is the innovation company that never stops inventing. With $27 billion in sales, 3M employs about 80,000 people worldwide and has operations in more than 65 countries. For more information, visit www.3M.com or follow @3MNews on Twitter.
 
 
 


