FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20110215112602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
Brad T. Sauer, Executive Vice President, has adopted a prearranged trading plan, effective February 11, 2011, in accordance with guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, and 3M Company's policies with respect to insider sales.
 
Rule 10b5-1 plans permit insiders to sell fixed portions of their holdings over a designated period of time by establishing the prearranged written plans at a time when they are not in possession of material non-public information.  Such programs provide for regular selling of a predetermined, fixed number of company shares in order to gradually diversify the individual's investment portfolio, minimize the market effect of share sales by spreading them out over an extended period of time and avoid concerns about initiating transactions while in possession of material non-public information.
 
Mr. Sauer's plan contemplates (A) the sale of up to a maximum of 2,252 net shares of 3M common stock acquired through Restricted Stock Units vesting, at market price; and (B) the sale of up to a maximum of 10,961 shares (acquired through stock option exercises) through dates that range from March 31, 2011 to May 8, 2011, but only if the stock meets the minimum price thresholds as specified in the plan.  Assuming all transactions execute, Mr. Sauer would remain above the minimum stock ownership thresholds established by the Company.  Any transactions under the plan will be disclosed publicly through Form 4 and, if applicable, Form 144 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


