FILE:MMM/MMM-8K-20120726080838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 26, 2012, 3M Company issued a press release reporting second-quarter 2012 results (attached hereunder as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: July 26, 2012

 
Exhibit 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
ST. PAUL, Minn.
 July 26, 2012 - 3M (NYSE: MMM) today reported record second-quarter earnings of $1.66 per share, an increase of 3.8 percent versus the second quarter of 2011. Operating income was $1.7 billion and operating income margins for the quarter were 22.9 percent. All of the company's six business segments posted operating income margins greater than 20 percent.
 
Sales were $7.5 billion, down 1.9 percent year-over-year. Organic local-currency sales grew 1.9 percent and acquisitions added 0.5 percent to sales. The company noted that the combination of challenging economic conditions and the strong U.S. dollar hurt sales in the quarter. Currency impacts reduced sales by 4.3 percent year-on-year.
 
On a business segment basis, organic local-currency sales increased 5.4 percent in Health Care, 4.2 percent in Industrial and Transportation, 3.1 percent in Consumer and Office and 3.1 percent in Safety, Security and Protection Services. Organic local-currency sales declined 1.8 percent in Electro and Communications and 6.6 percent in Display and Graphics, both impacted by weakness in the consumer electronics industry. On a geographic basis, organic local-currency sales grew 11.4 percent in Latin America/Canada and 3.6 percent in the United States, while Asia Pacific and EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) declined 0.6 percent and 1.9 percent, respectively.
 
Second-quarter net income was $1.2 billion and earnings were $1.66 per share. Total-company operating income margins were 22.9 percent for the quarter, and free cash flow exceeded $1.0 billion.
 
"Our team performed very well in the quarter, delivering excellent productivity and record second-quarter earnings," said Inge G. Thulin, 3M chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We achieved these results through outstanding factory efficiency and cost discipline throughout the organization."
 
Thulin continued, "Going forward, we will keep driving to achieve strong earnings and cash flow. At the same time we will expand 3M's customer relevance through strategic investments in manufacturing, innovation and commercialization."
 
Looking ahead, 3M maintained its full-year 2012 earnings expectations of $6.35 to $6.50 per share. The company anticipates full-year organic local-currency sales growth of 2 to 5 percent and that foreign currency translation will reduce sales by approximately 3 percent for the year. 3M expects operating income margins in the range of 21.5 to 22.5 percent for the year.
 
Second-Quarter Business Segment Discussion
 
Industrial and Transportation
                 
Sales of $2.6 billion, down 0.6 percent in U.S. dollars. Organic local-currency sales increased 4.2 percent, acquisitions added 0.2 percent and foreign currency translation reduced sales by 5.0 percent.
                 
On an organic local-currency basis:
 
                 
Sales growth was strongest in automotive OEM, aerospace, abrasives and energy/advanced materials.
                 
Sales rose in Latin America/Canada, Asia Pacific and the U.S.; EMEA declined slightly.
                 
Operating income rose 13.0 percent to $614 million; operating income margin of 23.4 percent.
 
Health Care
                 
Sales of $1.3 billion, up 1.1 percent in U.S. dollars. Organic local-currency sales increased 5.4 percent, acquisitions added 0.4 percent and foreign currency translation reduced sales by 4.7 percent.
                 
On an organic local-currency basis:
                 
Sales rose in all businesses, led by food safety, health information systems and skin/wound care.
                 
Double-digit sales growth in Latin America/Canada and Asia Pacific; EMEA and the U.S. also posted positive growth.
                 
Operating income increased 13.4 percent to $414 million; operating income margin of 32.3 percent.
 
Consumer and Office
                 
Sales of $1.1 billion, up 2.3 percent in U.S. dollars. Organic local-currency sales increased 3.1 percent, acquisitions added 2.7 percent and foreign currency translation reduced sales by 3.5 percent.
                 
On an organic local-currency basis:
                 
Sales growth was led by the DIY and home care businesses.
                 
Sales expanded in Latin America/Canada, Asia Pacific and the U.S., partially offset by declines in EMEA.
                 
Operating income rose 10.2 percent to $222 million; operating income margin of 21.0 percent.
 
Safety, Security and Protection Services
                 
Sales of $991 million, down 1.9 percent in U.S. dollars. Organic local-currency sales increased 3.1 percent and foreign currency translation reduced sales by 5.0 percent.
                 
On an organic local-currency basis:
                 
Sales growth was strongest in infrastructure protection, personal safety and building and commercial services; sales declined year-on-year in security systems.
                 
Sales increased in Latin America/Canada, Asia Pacific and the U.S., partially offset by declines in EMEA.
                 
Operating income rose 6.3 percent to $258 million; operating margin of 26.0 percent.
 
Display and Graphics
                 
Sales of $882 million, down 9.3 percent in U.S. dollars. Organic local-currency sales declined 6.6 percent and foreign currency translation reduced sales by 2.7 percent.
                 
On an organic local-currency basis:
                 
Lower film volumes for LCD TVs drove double-digit sales declines in optical systems.
                 
Double-digit sales increases in both architectural markets and commercial graphics; sales down slightly in traffic safety systems.
 
 
                 
Sales declined in Asia Pacific and EMEA, partially offset by increases in the U.S. and Latin America/Canada.
                 
Operating income declined 19.1 percent to $179 million; operating margin of 20.3 percent.
 
Electro and Communications
                 
Sales of $824 million, down 4.7 percent in U.S. dollars. Organic local-currency sales declined 1.8 percent and foreign currency translation reduced sales by 2.9 percent.
                 
On an organic local-currency basis:
                 
Positive sales growth in electrical markets; telecom and consumer electronics-related businesses declined year-on-year.
                 
Sales rose in Latin America/Canada and the U.S., and were down year-on-year in EMEA and Asia Pacific.
                 
Operating income of $195 million, down 2.3 percent; operating margin of 23.7 percent.
 
3M will conduct an investor teleconference at 9:00 a.m. EDT (8:00 a.m. CDT) today. Investors can access this conference via the following:
 
              
Live webcast at .
http://investor.3M.com
              
Live telephone:
Call 800-762-2596 within the U.S. or +1 212-231-2916 outside the U.S. Please join the call at least 10 minutes before the start time.
              
Webcast replay:
Go to 3M's Investor Relations website at and click on "Quarterly Earnings."
http://investor.3M.com
              
Telephone replay:
Call 800-633-8284 (for both U.S. and outside the U.S.; access code is 21538621).
The telephone replay will be available until 10:00 a.m. CDT on July 31, 2012.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking information about 3M's financial results and estimates and business prospects that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the use of words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "target," "forecast" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or business plans or prospects. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: (1) worldwide economic and capital markets conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control, including natural and other disasters affecting the operations of the Company or its customers and suppliers; (2) the Company's credit ratings and its cost of capital; (3) competitive conditions and customer preferences; (4) foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; (5) the timing and market acceptance of new product offerings; (6) the availability and cost of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives) due to shortages, increased demand or supply interruptions (including those caused by natural and other disasters and other events); (7) the impact of acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures, and other unusual events resulting from portfolio management actions and other evolving business strategies, and possible organizational restructuring; (8) generating fewer productivity improvements than estimated; (9) security breaches and other disruptions to the Company's information technology infrastructure; and (10) legal proceedings, including significant developments that could occur in the legal and regulatory proceedings described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and its subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (the "Reports"). Changes in such assumptions or factors could produce
 
 
significantly different results. A further description of these factors is located in the Reports under "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results" and "Risk Factors" in Part I, Items 1 and 1A (Annual Report) and in Part I, Item 2 and Part II, Item 1A (Quarterly Report). The information contained in this news release is as of the date indicated. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
        
The changes in 3M's defined-benefit pension and postretirement plans' funded status as of December 31, 2011 (primarily due to a decrease in discount rates) significantly impacted several balance sheet lines. These changes increased long-term liabilities by approximately $2.4 billion and decreased stockholders' equity by approximately $1.6 billion, with the other major impact primarily related to increased deferred taxes within other assets. Other pension and postretirement changes during the year, such as contributions and amortization, also impacted these balance sheet captions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)
        
Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company believes free cash flow is a useful measure of performance and uses this measure as an indication of the strength of the company and its ability to generate cash.
 
(c)
         
The company uses various working capital measures that place emphasis and focus on certain working capital assets and liabilities. 3M's net working capital index is defined as quarterly net sales multiplied by four, divided by ending net accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable. This measure is not recognized under U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
Sales Change Analysis
By Geographic Area
 
 
Worldwide
Sales Change Analysis
By Business Segment
 
Sales Change Analysis
By Geographic Area
 
 
Worldwide
Sales Change Analysis
By Business Segment
 
(Millions)
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
About 3M
3M captures the spark of new ideas and transforms them into thousands of ingenious products.  Our culture of creative collaboration inspires a never-ending stream of powerful technologies that make life better.  3M is the innovation company that never stops inventing.  With $30 billion in sales, 3M employs 84,000 people worldwide and has operations in more than 65 countries.
 
 
From:
3M Public Relations and Corporate Communications
3M Center, Building 225-1S-15
St. Paul, MN 55144-1000


