Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Hospiras audited financial statements included in Item 8. For the Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 (in millions, except per share amounts) Statements of Income data: Net sales $ 2,645 $ 2,624 $ 2,603 $ 2,514 $ 2,348 Gross profit 787 701 719 725 748 Income from operations(1) 428 360 378 396 418 Income before taxes(1) 412 359 352 390 421 Net income $ 302 $ 260 $ 247 $ 273 $ 297 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 1.93 $ 1.67 $ 1.58 $ 1.75 $ 1.90 Diluted $ 1.92 $ 1.67 $ 1.58 $ 1.75 $ 1.90 Weighted average common shares outstanding (in thousands): Basic(2) 156,187 156,043 156,043 156,043 156,043 Diluted(2) 157,160 156,043 156,043 156,043 156,043 (1)Includes post retirement medical and dental curtailment benefit of $65 million in 2004. (2)For periods prior to April 30, 2004, basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the number of shares of Hospira common stock outstanding on April 30, 2004, the date on which the Hospira common stock was distributed to the shareholders of Abbott. December 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 (in millions) Balance Sheet data: Total assets $ 2,343 $ 2,250 $ 2,154 $ 2,133 $ 2,057 Long term debt $ 699 $ $ $ $ 35  Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Overview Hospira is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company that is focused on products that improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care in the acute care setting. Hospira is a leader in the development, manufacture and marketing of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication delivery systems that deliver drugs and intravenous (I.V.) fluids. Hospira is also a leading provider of contract manufacturing services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities. Transition from Abbott For all periods prior to the spin off, Hospira operated as a part of Abbotts Hospital Products and International segments. References to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of Hospira prior to the spin off are generally intended to refer to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of the business as it was conducted as part of Abbott and its subsidiaries prior to the spin off. Hospiras consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflect Hospiras operations as a separate, stand alone entity subsequent to the spin off, combined with the historical operations of Hospira when it operated as part of Abbott prior to the spin off. The financial information in the financial statements included in this annual report does not include all the expenses that would have been incurred, nor does it reflect Hospiras results of operations, financial position and cash flows, had Hospira been a stand alone company for all of the periods presented. On April 30, 2004, Hospira became an independent, stand alone company when Abbott consummated its spin off of Hospira by paying to its shareholders a special dividend distribution of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Hospira, Inc. For every ten Abbott common shares held, Abbott shareholders received one share of Hospira common stock. All of the shares of Hospiras common stock were distributed to Abbott shareholders in a tax free spin off on a pro rata basis. Abbott received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the spin off qualified as a tax free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to the payment of cash in lieu of fractional shares. While Hospira was a part of Abbott, Hospira relied on Abbotts corporate infrastructure and administrative functions. Also as part of Abbott, Hospira was required to compete with Abbotts other major businesses for product development funds and other resources. The level of resources allocated to Hospira affected its research and development project funding, manufacturing cost structure, and marketing, promotion and selling activities. The spin off enabled Hospira to focus exclusively on its business and use its own resources to invest in opportunities targeted to its own markets. Hospira views the 24 month period after the spin off as a transition period, during which it will build its own corporate and international infrastructure and increase its research and development expenditures. Hospira expects to fund these costs through its operating cash flows. Hospira did not incur expenses relating to these activities as rapidly as expected in 2004, and, as a result, had more favorable results of operations in 2004 than anticipated. Hospira expects to increase its level of operating expenses from 2004 levels as are required for it to operate as an independent public company. Hospira expects to incur increased expenses on an ongoing basis, including expenses relating to establishing corporate functions, operating and maintaining information technology systems, and operating internationally on a stand alone basis, as well as on a 36 non recurring, transitional basis, including expenses relating to the establishment of new facilities, the build out of independent information technology systems, and product registration and re labeling. These transitional costs are estimated to total approximately $100 million (pre tax) over the 24 month period subsequent to the spin off. As of December 31, 2004, Hospira had incurred $32.4 million of these costs. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of longer term sales growth. Hospira expects to continue to increase its level of spending, especially in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management systems. Hospira will also incur costs to acquire assets outside the United States. Under transition arrangements with Abbott, described under "Item 1 Business Arrangements with Abbott," the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States that are legally owned by Abbott but used by Hospira in its business, will occur over the two year transition period. During this period, Hospira is obligated to purchase the international net assets from Abbott for the net book value of such net assets at the time of such purchase. As of December 31, 2004, the net book value of such net assets was approximately $281 million. Pending the legal transfer to Hospira, these operations and assets are being used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by the operations and assets. Hospira views the ability to operate independently outside the United States as a longer term opportunity for it to increase its sales and profitability. Hospira believes the key initiatives it will focus on in the next few years are as follows: continue the administrative separation from Abbott in the United States; establish its international infrastructure and purchase the international net assets from Abbott; identify and execute new product opportunities either through internal development or strategic alliances; and identify and execute structural changes to maximize efficiencies and lower costs. Hospira believes that these initiatives will better position it to execute its strategy of investing for growth and improving its margins and cash flows. Factors that Influence Results of Operations Manufacturing. Hospira believes it successfully managed its manufacturing operations in 2004, through its regulatory compliance efforts, improved process controls, and strong supplier relationships and performance, all of which contributed to Hospiras 2004 profitability. Hospira must comply with detailed regulations governing good manufacturing practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, and must incur expense and spend time and effort in the areas of production, safety, quality control and quality assurance to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Failure by Hospira or a supplier to comply with these regulations could disrupt manufacturing operations, lower efficiency and harm profitability. Continuity of supply of high quality raw materials is also important to Hospiras manufacturing operations. Hospira intends to continue to work to improve its manufacturing processes and lower production costs wherever possible. Hospiras ability to efficiently and consistently manufacture its required volumes of high quality products, while maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements and controlling related expenditures, is an important factor in its ability to maximize efficiency and establish and maintain a low cost operating structure. Product Development. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of sales growth over the longer term. To be effective in these efforts, Hospira must develop products and enhancements that satisfy customer needs and be able to successfully market those 37 products. In order to bring a drug or medical device to market, Hospira must obtain regulatory approval in most cases, which can be costly and time consuming. Failure to obtain timely approvals for new products will negatively impact Hospiras ability to earn revenues from these new products. In some cases, Hospira may enter into strategic alliances to enhance its ability to develop and market new products. To accomplish its sales and profitability objectives, Hospira must successfully execute its research and development programs and related regulatory efforts. GPO Contracts. Approximately 50 percent of Hospiras net sales are made under contracts with group purchasing organizations. Typically, these contracts cover a portion of Hospiras product lines, specify the prices for Hospiras products, and are effective for three to five years. Generally, the contracts are extended or competitively bid prior to contract expiration. Hospira expects four GPO pharmacy contracts to be renewed or renegotiated during 2005. The ability of Hospira to renew existing contracts or to enter into new contracts with the group purchasing organizations and their member hospitals is a key factor affecting Hospiras sales. Wind down of Berlex Distribution Agreement. Hospira has historically distributed Berlexs imaging agents. During the fourth quarter of 2004, Hospira received notification from Berlex that it was exercising the "wind down" clause in the distribution agreement. Based upon Hospiras negotiations with Berlex relating to the wind down of the agreement, Hospira expects that its sales of these products will decline from approximately $200 million in 2004 to approximately $60 million to $70 million in the first half of 2005. In addition, operating profits in 2005 related to these reduced sales are expected to be negatively affected by approximately $8 million to $9 million. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are those policies that require management to make the most challenging, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive to result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Hospira believes its most critical accounting policies are those described below. For a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Hospira recognizes revenues from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed and determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. For other than drug delivery pumps and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing, product revenue is recognized when products are delivered and title passes to customers. Placements of drug delivery pumps with customers typically fall under one of three types of arrangements: outright sales of the pump to the customer; placements under lease arrangements; and placements under contracts which require minimum disposable set purchases. For placements under lease agreements, certain arrangements for which Hospiras warranty obligation extends through the entire lease term are accounted for as operating leases. For these, Hospira recognizes revenue over the lease term, which averages five years. The related warranty expense is recorded over the lease term. For leases under which Hospiras warranty obligation is limited to less than two years, Hospira accounts for these as sales type leases, under which the discounted sales value of the pump is recorded as revenue upon placement with the customer. For those contracts which require minimum set purchases, no revenue is recognized upon placement of the instrument with the customer. An incremental charge is applied to the sets to recover the cost of the capital and revenue is recognized upon delivery of the disposables. In contracts with multiple deliverables, total revenue is divided among the separate units of accounting (deliverables) based on their relative fair value and is recognized for each deliverable in 38 accordance with the applicable revenue recognition criteria. However, in instances when fair value exists only for undelivered elements, the residual method is used to allocate total consideration. Injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing involves filling customers active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) into delivery systems. Under these arrangements, customers API is often consigned to Hospira and revenue is recorded for the materials and labor provided by Hospira, plus a profit, upon shipment to the customer. In addition, Hospira records sales of product rights as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Sales of product rights are not significant. A large part of Hospiras sales are to wholesalers and group purchasing organizations. These sales typically include provisions for chargebacks, rebates and other adjustments and are provided for as a reduction in gross sales at the time the related sales are recorded. The most significant estimated provisions that are complex in nature are chargebacks and rebates. These provisions are described in the following paragraphs. Chargebacks and Rebates The provision for chargebacks is a significant and complex estimate used in the recognition of revenue. Hospira sells products to end customers directly or through wholesalers who then resell the products to end customers. For products sold through wholesalers, Hospira charges the wholesaler a predetermined price, known as wholesale acquisition cost, which is typically higher than the amount contracted with the end customer. Wholesalers then sell to an end customer at a lower price based on contractual terms previously established between Hospira and the end customer. Hospira records the initial sale to the wholesaler at wholesale acquisition cost and at the same time, records a chargeback provision equal to the estimated amount the wholesaler will charge Hospira for the difference between the wholesale acquisition cost and the estimated average customer contract price. This process is necessary to enable Hospira to track actual sales to the end customer, which is essential information to run the business effectively. Hospira estimates chargebacks based upon historical chargeback trends and adjusts for known changes that will affect the estimate. Chargebacks are recorded as reductions to trade receivables and gross sales. Hospira continually monitors the provision for chargebacks and makes adjustments when Hospira believes that the actual chargebacks may differ from estimates. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, chargebacks of $76.1 million and $72.2 million, respectively, are recorded as a reduction in trade receivables. Settlement of chargebacks generally occurs within 30 days after the sale to wholesalers. Hospira primarily offers contract rebates to customers who either purchase directly from Hospira or from certain wholesalers who sell to their customers at prices determined under a contract between Hospira and the customer, or to government agencies, which administer various programs such as Medicaid. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases or by reference to a specific price for a product. Factors that complicate the rebate calculations are identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using actual contract terms and eligible purchases, Hospira estimates the amount of the rebate due at the time of sale, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Hospira records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from three to 18 months after sale. Hospira continually analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to recorded reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, accrued rebates of $74.1 million and $72.7 million, respectively, are included in other accrued liabilities. 39 The following table is an analysis of chargebacks and rebates for 2004. (dollars in thousands) Wholesaler Chargebacks Rebates Balance at January 1, 2004 $ 72,224 $ 72,677 Provisions 726,870 126,656 Payments (722,998 ) (125,218 ) Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 76,096 $ 74,115 A one percentage point discount in end customer contract prices as a percentage of sales would decrease net sales and income from operations by approximately $35 million. Pension and Post Retirement Benefits Hospira provides pension and post retirement medical and dental benefits to certain of its employees based both in and outside of the United States. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira employees participated in Abbott benefit plans that provided pension and post retirement benefits. For financial reporting purposes, Hospira develops long term assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, and healthcare cost trend rate. For these assumptions, in order to make informed decisions, management consults with actuaries, monitors plan provisions and demographics, and reviews public market data and general economic information. The discount rate is estimated using Moodys Aa corporate bond index, with consideration of differences in duration between the bonds in the index and Hospiras benefit liabilities. The expected rate of return for the pension plan represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return on plan assets is developed from the expected future return of each asset class, weighted by the expected allocation of pension assets to that asset class. Hospira considers historical performance for the types of assets in which the plans invest, independent market forecasts, and economic and capital market conditions. The healthcare cost trend rate for 2004 was 10%, declining to 5% by 2009. A one percentage point increase/decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate, with other assumptions held constant, would increase/(decrease) the service and interest component of net post retirement medical and dental cost for 2004 by approximately $0.8/($0.7) million, and would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post retirement benefit obligation by approximately $8.4/($7.3) million. In 2004, Hospira changed the actuarial valuation measurement date for certain of the pension and post retirement plans from December 31 to November 30 to facilitate the planning and reporting process. The effect of this change did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Litigation Hospira accounts for litigation losses in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at managements best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information is known. Accordingly, Hospira is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. 40 Income Taxes Hospiras provision for income taxes is based on taxable income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which Hospira operates. Because Hospira operates globally, significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Reserves are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserves and changes to reserves. Each quarter, Hospira reviews its reserves in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. Provision for income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided for on undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries when Hospira intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely as working capital and plant and equipment. See further discussion under Legislative Issues regarding the possible impact on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as a result of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and in Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements. Prior to the spin off date, the provision for income taxes was calculated on a separate return basis. Under the tax sharing agreement executed in conjunction with the spin off, Abbott will indemnify Hospira for tax liabilities arising for periods prior to the spin off date. Therefore, no such liabilities are reflected in the consolidated financial statements for the first four months of 2004 or any prior taxable periods. Due to Hospiras incorporation by Abbott in September 2003 and separation from Abbott in April 2004, Hospira has no income tax filing history as an independent company. The provision for income tax subsequent to the spin off has been based on Hospiras limited history as an independent company, and as such, these estimates may change in future periods as tax return filings are submitted and subsequently audited. Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales increased 0.8% in 2004 compared to 2003. Sales to third parties represented 2.5% growth in overall sales, driven by volume/product mix of 2.6% and exchange of 0.8%, offset by price of (0.6)% and a gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of (0.3)%. Sales to Abbott had an unfavorable impact of (1.7)% on overall sales growth driven by the exclusion of the bulk drug cost for certain products subsequent to the spin off and decreased demand. Net sales increased by 0.8% in 2003 compared to 2002. Sales to third parties represented a decline of (0.2)% of overall sales, driven by lower volume/product mix of (1.0)%, and price (0.4)%, offset by exchange of 0.9%, and the gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of 0.3%. Sales to Abbott had a favorable impact of 1.0% on overall sales growth, driven by increased demand. 41 A comparison of product line sales is as follows: Percent Change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 U.S. Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals $ 894 $ 858 $ 871 4.3 % (1.5 )% Medication Delivery Systems 783 744 724 5.2 % 2.8 % Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 179 158 154 13.3 % 2.2 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 120 182 160 (34.3 )% 14.4 % Other 244 267 296 (8.3 )% (9.5 )% Total U.S. 2,220 2,209 2,205 0.5 % 0.2 % International Sales to Third Parties 365 374 360 (2.5 )% 4.0 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 60 41 38 46.6 % 7.9 % Total International Sales 425 415 398 2.4 % 4.3 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 2,645 $ 2,624 $ 2,603 0.8 % 0.8 % *Percent change computed based on unrounded numbers 2004 compared to 2003: The sales increase in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals was primarily due to increased sales of generic anti infective products, new products (fluconazole and deferoxamine), Berlex imaging agents, and increased sales of Precedex&reg;, partially offset by a decline in Corlopam&reg; due to generic competition. The sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was driven by growth in both medication management and infusion therapy products. The growth in medication management was due to increased placements of Hospiras newer technology Plum A+&reg;, Gemstar&reg; and Lifecare PCA&reg;3 pumps. In addition, medication management sales in 2004 were favorably impacted by a change in the business model which resulted in some leases being accounted for as sales type leases compared to the previous business model under which most leases were accounted for as operating leases. Included in 2004 is an adjustment of $7 million related to 2003 resulting from the reclassification of some leases from operating to sales type leases. The increase in infusion therapy product sales was driven by higher volumes, partially offset by price. The sales increase in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing was primarily due to the impact of the sales ramp up related to supply agreements signed in 2003, as well as growth in demand for several existing supply agreements. The decrease in U.S. Sales to Abbott was primarily due to the exclusion of the cost of the bulk drug subsequent to the spin off for certain products manufactured for Abbott, while 2003 included the cost of these bulk drugs for the full year. This reflects the post spin off manufacturing arrangement between Hospira and Abbott under which Abbott transfers the bulk drug to Hospira for processing and Hospiras sales include only the value added portion, plus a markup for these products. In addition, reduced demand by Abbott for several of its products contributed to the decline in sales. These reductions were partially offset by the markup on product sold to Abbott after the spin off. 42  Other U.S. sales primarily include sales to alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, and sales of critical care products. The decline in Other U.S. sales is primarily due to 2003 reflecting the gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights as well as the related loss of paclitaxel sales resulting from the divestiture of the related product rights; a volume decline in critical care products, and the wind down of the home infusion product line in 2003, partially offset by increased sales to alternate site customers and 2003 sales being negatively impacted by a product recall. International Sales to Third Parties declined due to reduced emphasis on a low margin product and lower sales in critical care, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange rates. International Sales to Abbott increased in 2004 primarily due to volume related to an additional product manufactured for Abbott subsequent to the spin off, coupled with the impact of the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off. 2003 compared to 2002: The decrease in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals in 2003 was due primarily to the termination of certain distribution agreements and pricing pressures on anesthesia products, partially offset by volume growth for acute care products. The sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was due primarily to new product introductions. Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing sales were favorably impacted in 2003 by new contract activity. The sales increase in U.S. Sales to Abbott in 2003 was due to volume increases in one of Abbotts proprietary anesthesia products. The sales decrease in Other U.S sales in 2003 was due to volume declines in critical care products, termination of a supply agreement, and wind down of the home infusion business. The increase in International sales in 2003 was due in part to the favorable impact of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar. Gross Profit Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Gross profit $ 786.6 $ 701.1 $ 719.4 12.2 % (2.5 )% As a percent of sales 29.7% 26.7% 27.6% 2004 compared to 2003: The increase in gross profit margin in 2004 was primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 1.4%, lower freight and distribution costs of 0.7%, reduced benefit costs of 0.5% as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans in 2004, lower project expense of 0.7%, the impact of foreign exchange of 0.1%, the impact in 2003 of a product recall of 0.5% and the markup on sales to Abbott in 2004 resulting in a margin increase of 1.3%, compared to 2003 when sales were recorded at cost. These increases were offset by slightly lower prices of (0.4)%, additional depreciation of (0.3)% resulting from a revision in the estimated useful life for certain electronic drug delivery pumps placed with customers, manufacturing cost increases in 2004 of (1.0)% driven by inflation and increased facility maintenance costs, offset by productivity improvements, a gain on sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of (0.3)% and other changes of (0.2)%. Hospiras gross margin for 2005 is expected to be favorably impacted by the full year benefit of both the benefit plan changes and the margin on sales to Abbott, as well as the wind down of the Berlex contract (which has provided relatively low margins), offset by incremental depreciation resulting from the change in estimated useful life discussed above. 43 2003 compared to 2002: The decrease in gross profit in 2003 compared to 2002 resulted from increased manufacturing costs and unfavorable international margins, in addition to lower domestic prices, which decreased gross margin by 0.3% in both periods. These decreases were partially offset by certain productivity improvements. Research and Development Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Research and development expense $ 119.6 $ 109.7 $ 87.3 9.0 % 25.7 % As a percent of sales 4.5% 4.2% 3.3% 2004 compared to 2003: The increase in research and development expenses in 2004 was due to spending associated with new product development primarily related to the development of a next generation drug delivery device, software systems and new compounds being added to Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline. Spending in 2004 also includes a Phase IV safety study on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;, as a condition of marketing the product. These increases were partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans and higher spending in 2003 related to external contracted services for specific compliance projects. Hospira plans to continue to increase research and development spending in 2005. 2003 compared to 2002: The increase in research and development expenses in 2003 was primarily due to spending associated with medication management systems and costs for external contracted services for specific compliance projects. Selling, General and Administrative Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Selling, general and administrative expense $ 304.0 $ 231.0 $ 253.9 31.6 % (9.0 )% As a percent of sales 11.5% 8.8% 9.7% 2004 compared to 2003: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2004 primarily due to additional costs related to becoming a separate stand alone public company. These costs include the establishment of corporate functions, legal and other professional services, insurance, information technology and costs relating to establishing Hospiras business infrastructure outside the United States. The increase in costs was partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of changes in certain post retirement benefit plans. Hospiras selling, general and administrative expenses for 2005 will reflect a full year of ongoing, incremental expenses associated with being a separate stand alone company and are expected to increase. 2003 compared to 2002: The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 primarily related to the reallocation of support activities to products retained by Abbott. 44 Curtailment of Post Retirement Medical and Dental Benefits In the second quarter of 2004, Hospira evaluated its retirement benefit programs and announced a series of benefit plan changes, which included the discontinuation of the U.S. non union post retirement medical and dental plan. The effect of the discontinuation of the post retirement medical and dental plan was a non cash pre tax benefit of $64.6 million. Interest Expense Prior to the spin off, Hospira did not have any debt. In connection with the spin off, Hospira incurred $700 million principal amount of debt, and, as a result, Hospira incurred interest expense of $18.8 million in 2004. Interest was primarily paid on the senior unsecured notes, which were issued to repay money borrowed under the senior unsecured credit facility that Hospira entered into in connection with the spin off. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, as well as Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K, for further information regarding Hospiras debt. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other income and expense for 2004, 2003 and 2002 primarily includes amounts relating to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest income, losses related to equity method investments, asset impairments and other items. Foreign exchange (gains) and losses for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $(0.3) million, $(1.8) million and $3.4 million, respectively. Interest income for 2004 was $2.4 million. Prior to the spin off, Hospira did not hold cash. Losses related to equity investments include amounts allocated from Abbott prior to the spin off for 2004 and 2003 of $1.3 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Hospira does not have equity method investments subsequent to the spin off. Included in 2002 is an asset impairment charge of $16.9 million as a result of other than temporary declines in market values of certain equity securities. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rates were 26.7% in 2004, 27.5% in 2003 and 30.0% in 2002. Excluding the effect of the curtailment benefit, the 2004 effective tax rate was 24.7%. The decreases in the effective tax rates in 2004 and 2003 were due primarily to increased income generated in foreign jurisdictions, which have lower tax rates than the United States. Taxes on income are determined on a separate return basis through April 30, 2004, at which time Hospira became a separate stand alone taxpayer. The effective tax rates are less than the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate principally due to the benefit of tax exemptions, of varying durations, in several taxing jurisdictions. Abbott has retained responsibility for all tax liabilities prior to the spin off date. Liquidity and Capital Resources Summary of Sources and (Uses) of Cash Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Operating activities $ 387.0 $ 368.1 $ 529.4 Investing activities (301.3 ) (193.4 ) (191.0 ) Financing activities 40.6 (174.8 ) (338.6 ) Operating Activities Net Cash From Operating Activities continues to be Hospiras primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. 45 In 2004, operating activities provided net cash of $387.0 million, primarily driven by net income of $301.6 million and non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $145.5 million, offset by the non cash curtailment benefit of $40.4 million, net of tax, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $19.7 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consists principally of an increase in accounts receivables generated primarily by increases in third party sales, increased contributions to pension plans, net of additional provisions, offset by a decrease in inventory and an increase in current liabilities. Cash inflows from increases in current liabilities were generated by increases in accruals related to the build up of infrastructure to operate as a stand alone company, as well as increases in benefit and payroll related accruals, and accrued interest. Inventory decreased from 2003 levels, which were higher than the prior years, as discussed below. In 2003, operating activities provided net cash of $368.1 million, primarily driven by net income of $260.4 million and non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $146.0, offset by $38.2 million of changes in operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted principally of increases in inventories in 2003, primarily to meet sales initiatives in future periods, to better match inventory levels with customer demand, and to a short term increase in the manufacturing process, and decreases in trade accounts payable and other liabilities due to the timing of payments of customer rebates and the domestic year end payroll. Before the effect of operating assets and liabilities changes, cash provided by operations was $406.7 million, $406.3 million, and $380.4 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Investing Activities Hospiras investing activities consist principally of capital expenditures necessary to expand and upgrade our manufacturing capabilities and infrastructure, and purchases of marketable securities. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities included payments of $228.9 million in 2004 primarily related to upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development and administrative support facilities, and information technology systems. Prior to the spin off, Hospira remitted cash generated primarily from operations to Abbott. Subsequent to the spin off, Hospira invests cash, depending on working capital requirements, in marketable securities. Financing Activities Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities in 2004 consisted primarily of net transactions with Abbott previous to and related to the spin off, receipt of the payment from Abbott related to the pension funding level requirements under the Employee Benefits Agreement, and the issuance and payment of short term and long term debt, net of discount and financing fees. Operational transactions with Abbott after the spin off are included in operating cash flows. Prior to the spin off, Hospira, as part of Abbott, did not hold cash, and the related transactions with Abbott were reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows in the financing section as "Net transactions with Abbott Laboratories." Subsequent to the spin off, Hospira retains cash and cash equivalents, which primarily include demand deposits with banks or other financial institutions. Summary of Financial Position Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Cash and cash equivalents $ 127.7 $ $ Marketable securities 72.4 Working capital 662.1 681.7 571.8 Long term debt 698.8 Due to Abbott (Includes current and long term) 189.1 46 Working Capital The decrease in working capital in 2004 was primarily due to the current portion of "Due to Abbott, Net," which is principally related to the liability for the international net assets to be purchased from Abbott, and decreases in inventory, offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, trade receivables, and current deferred income taxes. The increase in cash is due primarily to eight months of cash flow from operations being retained by Hospira that prior to the spin off would have been remitted to Abbott. The increase in working capital at December 31, 2003 was primarily due to higher inventory levels and lower other accrued liabilities at December 31, 2003, as discussed above. Hospira believes that current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations and funds available from its revolving credit facility will be sufficient to finance its operations for the foreseeable future, including product development, transition costs, international net asset acquisitions and capital expenditures. Debt and Capital On April 28, 2004, Abbott and Hospira entered into a short term $700 million principal amount senior unsecured credit facility ("Senior Facility"). The proceeds of the Senior Facility were retained by Abbott. On the spin off date, Abbott was relieved of all obligations under the Senior Facility and Hospira became solely responsible for repayment of the principal and for payment of interest and fees on this debt. On June 15, 2004, all amounts under the Senior Facility were repaid with proceeds from the senior unsecured notes, together with cash on hand. Hospira entered into a credit facility on April 30, 2004, which consists of an unsecured revolving credit facility of $375 million ("Revolver") and is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. Borrowings under the Revolver initially bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, plus a utilization fee if borrowings under the Revolver exceed $125 million. Interest and the annual facility fee under the Revolver are subject to increase or decrease if there is a change in Hospiras current credit rating of BBB by Standard & Poors. The commitment is subject to an annual facility fee, and expires in April 2009. As of December 31, 2004, Hospira had no amounts outstanding under the Revolver. On June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an offering of a $700 million aggregate principal amount of notes, consisting of $300 million principal amount of five year senior unsecured notes and $400 million principal amount of ten year senior unsecured notes. The $300 million five year notes bear interest at a rate of 4.95% per annum and mature on June 15, 2009, and the $400 million ten year notes bear interest at a rate of 5.90% per annum and mature on June 15, 2014. The proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, were used to repay all amounts outstanding under the $700 million Senior Facility that Hospira entered into in connection with the spin off. Subsequently, Hospira filed a registration statement, which was declared effective by the SEC on July 22, 2004 and provided for the exchange of the initial notes for registered notes with identical terms. The exchange of unregistered for registered notes was completed on August 26, 2004. In January 2005, Hospira entered into an interest rate swap on the five year notes as described under "Item 7A Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitive Instruments." The Revolver and Senior Unsecured Notes contain, among other provisions, covenants with which Hospira must comply while they are in force. Under such covenants, Hospira is restricted or prohibited from allowing liens on properties or assets, merging or consolidating with any other corporation. The Revolver further prohibits or restricts Hospira from selling certain assets, making certain investments and making restricted payments. Under the Revolver, Hospira must also comply with certain financial covenants, including interest coverage ratio, leverage ratio and minimum consolidated net worth. As of December 31, 2004, Hospira was in compliance with all such covenants. 47 Hospira is obligated to purchase certain international operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, from Abbott over a two year period after the spin off date, as Hospira establishes its business infrastructure outside the United States and obtains regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The purchase price will be equal to the net book value of those assets and liabilities at the time of such purchase. Accordingly, the net book value will be affected by normal operations, exchange rates and other business factors. Hospira pays Abbott interest on a portion of this purchase price at local prevailing short term rates in connection with Hospiras use of these assets during that period. Hospira expects to fund these net asset purchases from operating cash flow. As of December 31, 2004, the net book value of those assets and liabilities was approximately $281 million. The amount owed for the net book value of assets and liabilities is offset by $87 million of items that are due from Abbott related to the international business. These items include amounts due for operating profits and inventory purchases of Hospira products to support the international business. Contractual Obligations Hospira has no material exposures to off balance sheet arrangements, no special purpose entities, and no activities that include non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value. The following table summarizes Hospiras estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004 (dollars in millions): Payment Due by Period Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and Thereafter Long term debt and interest payments $ 1,010.3 $ 38.5 $ 76.9 $ 376.9 $ 518.0 Lease obligations 159.3 20.9 33.5 30.0 74.9 Purchase commitments(1) 394.3 378.6 15.7 Other long term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet(2) 12.3 12.3 Amounts due to Abbott for acquisition of certain international net assets(3) 280.8 171.6 109.2 Total $ 1,857.0 $ 609.6 $ 247.6 $ 406.9 $ 592.9 (1)Purchase commitments consist primarily of inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements. Contractual capital commitments are also included here, but these commitments represent only a portion of the expected capital spending in 2005 and beyond. (2)Excludes approximately $83.8 million of other long term liabilities related primarily to post retirement benefit obligations. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K regarding benefit payments for post retirement obligations. Hospira does not expect to contribute to its main U.S. pension plan in 2005. (3)The amount due to Abbott for the acquisition of certain international net assets excludes an offsetting amount of $87 million for items that are due from Abbott related to the international business. These include amounts due for operating profits and inventory purchases of Hospira products to support the international business. Hospiras commercial commitments as of December 31, 2004, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, primarily consist of non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of 48 December 31, 2004, Hospira had $5.7 million of outstanding letters of credit, all with expirations in 2005. No amounts have been drawn on these letters of credit. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs." This statement clarifies the accounting for the abnormal amount of idle facilities expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material. This statement requires that those items be recognized as current period expense. In addition the statement requires that allocation of fixed overhead to the cost of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. This statement is effective for inventory costs incurred after December 31, 2005. Adoption of this statement is not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements of Hospira. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, "Share Based Payment," which requires, among other changes, that the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized as compensation cost over the vesting period based on the fair value of the instrument on the date of grant. SFAS No. 123R revises SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" which previously allowed pro forma disclosure of certain compensation expense. Further, SFAS No. 123R supercedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," which previously allowed the intrinsic value method of accounting for stock options rather than fair value method when determining option value used to measure compensation cost. SFAS No. 123R is effective for Hospira beginning in the third quarter of 2005, at which time Hospira will commence recording compensation expense for any unvested share based payments previously issued over the remaining vesting period. In addition, compensation expense will be recorded when granted for future share based payments over the specified vesting period. Hospira discloses in Note 10 the pro forma net income and earnings per share as if the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 had been applied through December 31, 2004. Hospira is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 123R on its financial position and results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued two FASB Staff Positions ("FSP") that provide accounting guidance on how companies should account for the effects of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("Jobs Act") that was signed into law on October 22, 2004. FSP No. 109 1, "Application of FASB No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction Provided to U.S. Based Manufacturers by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004," indicates the tax deduction would be accounted for as a special deduction instead of a tax rate reduction. Beginning in 2005, Hospira will recognize the allowable deduction as qualifying activity occurs. FSP No. 109 2, "Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004," provides additional time beyond the current financial reporting period to evaluate the effects on plans for reinvestment or repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings. See Note 5 in the consolidated financial statements and Legislative Issues below for further discussion. Legislative Issues The Jobs Act, signed in October 2004, provides for a special one time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer, provided certain criteria are met. Tax authorities are expected to provide clarifying language on key elements of the repatriation provisions that remain unclear. Hospira has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of the Jobs Act on undistributed earnings, in part due to the pending clarifying language and its effect on the economic value of implementing any individual opportunity and its ability to meet qualifying criteria. Accordingly, at this time it is not possible to reasonably estimate the amount of undistributed earnings that may be repatriated and the income tax effects of such repatriation. 49 Hospiras primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulation. Hospira expects debate to continue at both the federal and state levels over the availability, method of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services. If additional legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing prices, or reducing the rate of price increases, for medical products and services. International operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Hospira or the healthcare industry in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future.  Item 7A Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instrument and Risk Management Hospira operates globally, and earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates, and interest rates. Upon consideration of management objectives, costs and opportunities, Hospira may use derivative instruments, including foreign currency forward exchange contracts, and interest rate swaps to manage these risks. Hospira enters into derivative instrument contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions to limit the amount of credit exposure to nonperformance by any one institution. Hospira does not utilize derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras operations are exposed to currency exchange rate risk, which is mitigated by Hospiras use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts ("forward contracts"). The objective in managing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Currency exposures include third party trade payables and receivables, and intercompany loans where the asset or liability is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. Forward contract gains and losses on these exposures substantially offset the remeasurement of the hedged asset or liability. In addition, currency exposures exist for certain subsidiaries for anticipated intercompany purchases, firm commitments, and third party forecasted transactions expected to be denominated in a foreign currency due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Forward contract gains and losses for these exposures are included in other income during the term of the forward contract, as they are not formally designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Net forward contract expense and the notional value of forward contracts were not significant in 2004 and 2003. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira participated in Abbotts management of these same foreign currency exposures. In addition, Hospira is obligated to purchase certain international operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, from Abbott over a two year period after the spin off date as Hospira establishes its business infrastructure outside the United States and obtains regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The purchase price will be equal to the net book value of those assets and liabilities at the time of such purchase. Accordingly, the net book value will be affected by normal operations, exchange rates and other business factors. Exchange rate gains and losses on the net asset exposures are substantially offset by the remeasurement of a portion of the due to Abbott liability, both of which are denominated in the foreign currency of the applicable country. Upon purchase, the net assets will be maintained in the functional currency of the operating country whereby exchange rate changes affecting the net assets will be included as cumulative translation adjustments in equity. Hospira does not currently intend to hedge the net investment exposure. 50 Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras primary interest rate exposures relate to cash and cash equivalents, and fixed and variable rate debt. The objective in managing exposure to changes in interest rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Hospiras investment portfolio of $208.2 million consists of cash and cash equivalents, market auction debt securities, and equity securities, which are classified as "available for sale." For market auction debt securities and equity securities any gains or losses will not be recognized in our statements of income until the investment is sold or if there is a reduction in fair value that is determined to be an other than temporary impairment. The carrying value of the investment portfolio approximates fair market value at December 31, 2004 and the value at maturity, as the majority of investments consist of securities with maturities of less than three months. Because our investments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and market auction debt securities, a hypothetical one percent change in interest rates is not likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. In conjunction with the spin off from Abbott, on June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an underwritten offering of a consolidated $700 million aggregate principal amount consisting of $300 million five year senior unsecured notes and $400 million ten year senior unsecured notes both of which bear a fixed rate of interest. In addition, Hospiras credit facility, entered into on April 30, 2004, consists of an unsecured revolving credit facility of $375 million ("Revolver") that is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. As of December 31, 2004, Hospira had no amounts outstanding under the Revolver. In January 2005, Hospira entered into interest rate swap transactions whereby the $300 million five year senior unsecured notes due in June 2009 were effectively converted from fixed to floating rate debt. The objective of the transactions entered into was to (i) maintain a capital structure containing appropriate amounts of fixed and floating rate debt, and (ii) lower the interest expense on these notes in the near term. Hospira does not expect cash flows from debt related interest rate sensitive instruments to be affected to a significant degree by reasonable changes in market interest rates. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above, as well as Notes 3 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K, for further information. 51   
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Overview Hospira is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company that is focused on products that improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care in the acute care setting. Hospira is a leader in the development, manufacture and marketing of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication delivery systems that deliver drugs and intravenous (I.V.) fluids. Hospira is also a leading provider of contract manufacturing services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities. Transition from Abbott For all periods prior to the spin off, Hospira operated as a part of Abbotts Hospital Products and International segments. References to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of Hospira prior to the spin off are generally intended to refer to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of the business as it was conducted as part of Abbott and its subsidiaries prior to the spin off. Hospiras consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflect Hospiras operations as a separate, stand alone entity subsequent to the spin off, combined with the historical operations of Hospira when it operated as part of Abbott prior to the spin off. The financial information in the financial statements included in this annual report does not include all the expenses that would have been incurred, nor does it reflect Hospiras results of operations, financial position and cash flows, had Hospira been a stand alone company for all of the periods presented. On April 30, 2004, Hospira became an independent, stand alone company when Abbott consummated its spin off of Hospira by paying to its shareholders a special dividend distribution of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Hospira, Inc. For every ten Abbott common shares held, Abbott shareholders received one share of Hospira common stock. All of the shares of Hospiras common stock were distributed to Abbott shareholders in a tax free spin off on a pro rata basis. Abbott received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the spin off qualified as a tax free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to the payment of cash in lieu of fractional shares. While Hospira was a part of Abbott, Hospira relied on Abbotts corporate infrastructure and administrative functions. Also as part of Abbott, Hospira was required to compete with Abbotts other major businesses for product development funds and other resources. The level of resources allocated to Hospira affected its research and development project funding, manufacturing cost structure, and marketing, promotion and selling activities. The spin off enabled Hospira to focus exclusively on its business and use its own resources to invest in opportunities targeted to its own markets. Hospira views the 24 month period after the spin off as a transition period, during which it will build its own corporate and international infrastructure and increase its research and development expenditures. Hospira expects to fund these costs through its operating cash flows. Hospira did not incur expenses relating to these activities as rapidly as expected in 2004, and, as a result, had more favorable results of operations in 2004 than anticipated. Hospira expects to increase its level of operating expenses from 2004 levels as are required for it to operate as an independent public company. Hospira expects to incur increased expenses on an ongoing basis, including expenses relating to establishing corporate functions, operating and maintaining information technology systems, and operating internationally on a stand alone basis, as well as on a 36 non recurring, transitional basis, including expenses relating to the establishment of new facilities, the build out of independent information technology systems, and product registration and re labeling. These transitional costs are estimated to total approximately $100 million (pre tax) over the 24 month period subsequent to the spin off. As of December 31, 2004, Hospira had incurred $32.4 million of these costs. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of longer term sales growth. Hospira expects to continue to increase its level of spending, especially in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management systems. Hospira will also incur costs to acquire assets outside the United States. Under transition arrangements with Abbott, described under "Item 1 Business Arrangements with Abbott," the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States that are legally owned by Abbott but used by Hospira in its business, will occur over the two year transition period. During this period, Hospira is obligated to purchase the international net assets from Abbott for the net book value of such net assets at the time of such purchase. As of December 31, 2004, the net book value of such net assets was approximately $281 million. Pending the legal transfer to Hospira, these operations and assets are being used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by the operations and assets. Hospira views the ability to operate independently outside the United States as a longer term opportunity for it to increase its sales and profitability. Hospira believes the key initiatives it will focus on in the next few years are as follows: continue the administrative separation from Abbott in the United States; establish its international infrastructure and purchase the international net assets from Abbott; identify and execute new product opportunities either through internal development or strategic alliances; and identify and execute structural changes to maximize efficiencies and lower costs. Hospira believes that these initiatives will better position it to execute its strategy of investing for growth and improving its margins and cash flows. Factors that Influence Results of Operations Manufacturing. Hospira believes it successfully managed its manufacturing operations in 2004, through its regulatory compliance efforts, improved process controls, and strong supplier relationships and performance, all of which contributed to Hospiras 2004 profitability. Hospira must comply with detailed regulations governing good manufacturing practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, and must incur expense and spend time and effort in the areas of production, safety, quality control and quality assurance to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Failure by Hospira or a supplier to comply with these regulations could disrupt manufacturing operations, lower efficiency and harm profitability. Continuity of supply of high quality raw materials is also important to Hospiras manufacturing operations. Hospira intends to continue to work to improve its manufacturing processes and lower production costs wherever possible. Hospiras ability to efficiently and consistently manufacture its required volumes of high quality products, while maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements and controlling related expenditures, is an important factor in its ability to maximize efficiency and establish and maintain a low cost operating structure. Product Development. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of sales growth over the longer term. To be effective in these efforts, Hospira must develop products and enhancements that satisfy customer needs and be able to successfully market those 37 products. In order to bring a drug or medical device to market, Hospira must obtain regulatory approval in most cases, which can be costly and time consuming. Failure to obtain timely approvals for new products will negatively impact Hospiras ability to earn revenues from these new products. In some cases, Hospira may enter into strategic alliances to enhance its ability to develop and market new products. To accomplish its sales and profitability objectives, Hospira must successfully execute its research and development programs and related regulatory efforts. GPO Contracts. Approximately 50 percent of Hospiras net sales are made under contracts with group purchasing organizations. Typically, these contracts cover a portion of Hospiras product lines, specify the prices for Hospiras products, and are effective for three to five years. Generally, the contracts are extended or competitively bid prior to contract expiration. Hospira expects four GPO pharmacy contracts to be renewed or renegotiated during 2005. The ability of Hospira to renew existing contracts or to enter into new contracts with the group purchasing organizations and their member hospitals is a key factor affecting Hospiras sales. Wind down of Berlex Distribution Agreement. Hospira has historically distributed Berlexs imaging agents. During the fourth quarter of 2004, Hospira received notification from Berlex that it was exercising the "wind down" clause in the distribution agreement. Based upon Hospiras negotiations with Berlex relating to the wind down of the agreement, Hospira expects that its sales of these products will decline from approximately $200 million in 2004 to approximately $60 million to $70 million in the first half of 2005. In addition, operating profits in 2005 related to these reduced sales are expected to be negatively affected by approximately $8 million to $9 million. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are those policies that require management to make the most challenging, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive to result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Hospira believes its most critical accounting policies are those described below. For a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Hospira recognizes revenues from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed and determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. For other than drug delivery pumps and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing, product revenue is recognized when products are delivered and title passes to customers. Placements of drug delivery pumps with customers typically fall under one of three types of arrangements: outright sales of the pump to the customer; placements under lease arrangements; and placements under contracts which require minimum disposable set purchases. For placements under lease agreements, certain arrangements for which Hospiras warranty obligation extends through the entire lease term are accounted for as operating leases. For these, Hospira recognizes revenue over the lease term, which averages five years. The related warranty expense is recorded over the lease term. For leases under which Hospiras warranty obligation is limited to less than two years, Hospira accounts for these as sales type leases, under which the discounted sales value of the pump is recorded as revenue upon placement with the customer. For those contracts which require minimum set purchases, no revenue is recognized upon placement of the instrument with the customer. An incremental charge is applied to the sets to recover the cost of the capital and revenue is recognized upon delivery of the disposables. In contracts with multiple deliverables, total revenue is divided among the separate units of accounting (deliverables) based on their relative fair value and is recognized for each deliverable in 38 accordance with the applicable revenue recognition criteria. However, in instances when fair value exists only for undelivered elements, the residual method is used to allocate total consideration. Injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing involves filling customers active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) into delivery systems. Under these arrangements, customers API is often consigned to Hospira and revenue is recorded for the materials and labor provided by Hospira, plus a profit, upon shipment to the customer. In addition, Hospira records sales of product rights as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Sales of product rights are not significant. A large part of Hospiras sales are to wholesalers and group purchasing organizations. These sales typically include provisions for chargebacks, rebates and other adjustments and are provided for as a reduction in gross sales at the time the related sales are recorded. The most significant estimated provisions that are complex in nature are chargebacks and rebates. These provisions are described in the following paragraphs. Chargebacks and Rebates The provision for chargebacks is a significant and complex estimate used in the recognition of revenue. Hospira sells products to end customers directly or through wholesalers who then resell the products to end customers. For products sold through wholesalers, Hospira charges the wholesaler a predetermined price, known as wholesale acquisition cost, which is typically higher than the amount contracted with the end customer. Wholesalers then sell to an end customer at a lower price based on contractual terms previously established between Hospira and the end customer. Hospira records the initial sale to the wholesaler at wholesale acquisition cost and at the same time, records a chargeback provision equal to the estimated amount the wholesaler will charge Hospira for the difference between the wholesale acquisition cost and the estimated average customer contract price. This process is necessary to enable Hospira to track actual sales to the end customer, which is essential information to run the business effectively. Hospira estimates chargebacks based upon historical chargeback trends and adjusts for known changes that will affect the estimate. Chargebacks are recorded as reductions to trade receivables and gross sales. Hospira continually monitors the provision for chargebacks and makes adjustments when Hospira believes that the actual chargebacks may differ from estimates. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, chargebacks of $76.1 million and $72.2 million, respectively, are recorded as a reduction in trade receivables. Settlement of chargebacks generally occurs within 30 days after the sale to wholesalers. Hospira primarily offers contract rebates to customers who either purchase directly from Hospira or from certain wholesalers who sell to their customers at prices determined under a contract between Hospira and the customer, or to government agencies, which administer various programs such as Medicaid. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases or by reference to a specific price for a product. Factors that complicate the rebate calculations are identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using actual contract terms and eligible purchases, Hospira estimates the amount of the rebate due at the time of sale, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Hospira records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from three to 18 months after sale. Hospira continually analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to recorded reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, accrued rebates of $74.1 million and $72.7 million, respectively, are included in other accrued liabilities. 39 The following table is an analysis of chargebacks and rebates for 2004. (dollars in thousands) Wholesaler Chargebacks Rebates Balance at January 1, 2004 $ 72,224 $ 72,677 Provisions 726,870 126,656 Payments (722,998 ) (125,218 ) Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 76,096 $ 74,115 A one percentage point discount in end customer contract prices as a percentage of sales would decrease net sales and income from operations by approximately $35 million. Pension and Post Retirement Benefits Hospira provides pension and post retirement medical and dental benefits to certain of its employees based both in and outside of the United States. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira employees participated in Abbott benefit plans that provided pension and post retirement benefits. For financial reporting purposes, Hospira develops long term assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, and healthcare cost trend rate. For these assumptions, in order to make informed decisions, management consults with actuaries, monitors plan provisions and demographics, and reviews public market data and general economic information. The discount rate is estimated using Moodys Aa corporate bond index, with consideration of differences in duration between the bonds in the index and Hospiras benefit liabilities. The expected rate of return for the pension plan represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return on plan assets is developed from the expected future return of each asset class, weighted by the expected allocation of pension assets to that asset class. Hospira considers historical performance for the types of assets in which the plans invest, independent market forecasts, and economic and capital market conditions. The healthcare cost trend rate for 2004 was 10%, declining to 5% by 2009. A one percentage point increase/decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate, with other assumptions held constant, would increase/(decrease) the service and interest component of net post retirement medical and dental cost for 2004 by approximately $0.8/($0.7) million, and would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post retirement benefit obligation by approximately $8.4/($7.3) million. In 2004, Hospira changed the actuarial valuation measurement date for certain of the pension and post retirement plans from December 31 to November 30 to facilitate the planning and reporting process. The effect of this change did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Litigation Hospira accounts for litigation losses in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at managements best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information is known. Accordingly, Hospira is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. 40 Income Taxes Hospiras provision for income taxes is based on taxable income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which Hospira operates. Because Hospira operates globally, significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Reserves are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserves and changes to reserves. Each quarter, Hospira reviews its reserves in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate to be in effect when the taxes are paid. Provision for income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided for on undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries when Hospira intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely as working capital and plant and equipment. See further discussion under Legislative Issues regarding the possible impact on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as a result of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and in Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements. Prior to the spin off date, the provision for income taxes was calculated on a separate return basis. Under the tax sharing agreement executed in conjunction with the spin off, Abbott will indemnify Hospira for tax liabilities arising for periods prior to the spin off date. Therefore, no such liabilities are reflected in the consolidated financial statements for the first four months of 2004 or any prior taxable periods. Due to Hospiras incorporation by Abbott in September 2003 and separation from Abbott in April 2004, Hospira has no income tax filing history as an independent company. The provision for income tax subsequent to the spin off has been based on Hospiras limited history as an independent company, and as such, these estimates may change in future periods as tax return filings are submitted and subsequently audited. Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales increased 0.8% in 2004 compared to 2003. Sales to third parties represented 2.5% growth in overall sales, driven by volume/product mix of 2.6% and exchange of 0.8%, offset by price of (0.6)% and a gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of (0.3)%. Sales to Abbott had an unfavorable impact of (1.7)% on overall sales growth driven by the exclusion of the bulk drug cost for certain products subsequent to the spin off and decreased demand. Net sales increased by 0.8% in 2003 compared to 2002. Sales to third parties represented a decline of (0.2)% of overall sales, driven by lower volume/product mix of (1.0)%, and price (0.4)%, offset by exchange of 0.9%, and the gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of 0.3%. Sales to Abbott had a favorable impact of 1.0% on overall sales growth, driven by increased demand. 41 A comparison of product line sales is as follows: Percent Change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 U.S. Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals $ 894 $ 858 $ 871 4.3 % (1.5 )% Medication Delivery Systems 783 744 724 5.2 % 2.8 % Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 179 158 154 13.3 % 2.2 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 120 182 160 (34.3 )% 14.4 % Other 244 267 296 (8.3 )% (9.5 )% Total U.S. 2,220 2,209 2,205 0.5 % 0.2 % International Sales to Third Parties 365 374 360 (2.5 )% 4.0 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 60 41 38 46.6 % 7.9 % Total International Sales 425 415 398 2.4 % 4.3 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 2,645 $ 2,624 $ 2,603 0.8 % 0.8 % *Percent change computed based on unrounded numbers 2004 compared to 2003: The sales increase in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals was primarily due to increased sales of generic anti infective products, new products (fluconazole and deferoxamine), Berlex imaging agents, and increased sales of Precedex&reg;, partially offset by a decline in Corlopam&reg; due to generic competition. The sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was driven by growth in both medication management and infusion therapy products. The growth in medication management was due to increased placements of Hospiras newer technology Plum A+&reg;, Gemstar&reg; and Lifecare PCA&reg;3 pumps. In addition, medication management sales in 2004 were favorably impacted by a change in the business model which resulted in some leases being accounted for as sales type leases compared to the previous business model under which most leases were accounted for as operating leases. Included in 2004 is an adjustment of $7 million related to 2003 resulting from the reclassification of some leases from operating to sales type leases. The increase in infusion therapy product sales was driven by higher volumes, partially offset by price. The sales increase in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing was primarily due to the impact of the sales ramp up related to supply agreements signed in 2003, as well as growth in demand for several existing supply agreements. The decrease in U.S. Sales to Abbott was primarily due to the exclusion of the cost of the bulk drug subsequent to the spin off for certain products manufactured for Abbott, while 2003 included the cost of these bulk drugs for the full year. This reflects the post spin off manufacturing arrangement between Hospira and Abbott under which Abbott transfers the bulk drug to Hospira for processing and Hospiras sales include only the value added portion, plus a markup for these products. In addition, reduced demand by Abbott for several of its products contributed to the decline in sales. These reductions were partially offset by the markup on product sold to Abbott after the spin off. 42  Other U.S. sales primarily include sales to alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, and sales of critical care products. The decline in Other U.S. sales is primarily due to 2003 reflecting the gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights as well as the related loss of paclitaxel sales resulting from the divestiture of the related product rights; a volume decline in critical care products, and the wind down of the home infusion product line in 2003, partially offset by increased sales to alternate site customers and 2003 sales being negatively impacted by a product recall. International Sales to Third Parties declined due to reduced emphasis on a low margin product and lower sales in critical care, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange rates. International Sales to Abbott increased in 2004 primarily due to volume related to an additional product manufactured for Abbott subsequent to the spin off, coupled with the impact of the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off. 2003 compared to 2002: The decrease in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals in 2003 was due primarily to the termination of certain distribution agreements and pricing pressures on anesthesia products, partially offset by volume growth for acute care products. The sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was due primarily to new product introductions. Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing sales were favorably impacted in 2003 by new contract activity. The sales increase in U.S. Sales to Abbott in 2003 was due to volume increases in one of Abbotts proprietary anesthesia products. The sales decrease in Other U.S sales in 2003 was due to volume declines in critical care products, termination of a supply agreement, and wind down of the home infusion business. The increase in International sales in 2003 was due in part to the favorable impact of the relatively weaker U.S. dollar. Gross Profit Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Gross profit $ 786.6 $ 701.1 $ 719.4 12.2 % (2.5 )% As a percent of sales 29.7% 26.7% 27.6% 2004 compared to 2003: The increase in gross profit margin in 2004 was primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 1.4%, lower freight and distribution costs of 0.7%, reduced benefit costs of 0.5% as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans in 2004, lower project expense of 0.7%, the impact of foreign exchange of 0.1%, the impact in 2003 of a product recall of 0.5% and the markup on sales to Abbott in 2004 resulting in a margin increase of 1.3%, compared to 2003 when sales were recorded at cost. These increases were offset by slightly lower prices of (0.4)%, additional depreciation of (0.3)% resulting from a revision in the estimated useful life for certain electronic drug delivery pumps placed with customers, manufacturing cost increases in 2004 of (1.0)% driven by inflation and increased facility maintenance costs, offset by productivity improvements, a gain on sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of (0.3)% and other changes of (0.2)%. Hospiras gross margin for 2005 is expected to be favorably impacted by the full year benefit of both the benefit plan changes and the margin on sales to Abbott, as well as the wind down of the Berlex contract (which has provided relatively low margins), offset by incremental depreciation resulting from the change in estimated useful life discussed above. 43 2003 compared to 2002: The decrease in gross profit in 2003 compared to 2002 resulted from increased manufacturing costs and unfavorable international margins, in addition to lower domestic prices, which decreased gross margin by 0.3% in both periods. These decreases were partially offset by certain productivity improvements. Research and Development Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Research and development expense $ 119.6 $ 109.7 $ 87.3 9.0 % 25.7 % As a percent of sales 4.5% 4.2% 3.3% 2004 compared to 2003: The increase in research and development expenses in 2004 was due to spending associated with new product development primarily related to the development of a next generation drug delivery device, software systems and new compounds being added to Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline. Spending in 2004 also includes a Phase IV safety study on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;, as a condition of marketing the product. These increases were partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans and higher spending in 2003 related to external contracted services for specific compliance projects. Hospira plans to continue to increase research and development spending in 2005. 2003 compared to 2002: The increase in research and development expenses in 2003 was primarily due to spending associated with medication management systems and costs for external contracted services for specific compliance projects. Selling, General and Administrative Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Selling, general and administrative expense $ 304.0 $ 231.0 $ 253.9 31.6 % (9.0 )% As a percent of sales 11.5% 8.8% 9.7% 2004 compared to 2003: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2004 primarily due to additional costs related to becoming a separate stand alone public company. These costs include the establishment of corporate functions, legal and other professional services, insurance, information technology and costs relating to establishing Hospiras business infrastructure outside the United States. The increase in costs was partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of changes in certain post retirement benefit plans. Hospiras selling, general and administrative expenses for 2005 will reflect a full year of ongoing, incremental expenses associated with being a separate stand alone company and are expected to increase. 2003 compared to 2002: The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 primarily related to the reallocation of support activities to products retained by Abbott. 44 Curtailment of Post Retirement Medical and Dental Benefits In the second quarter of 2004, Hospira evaluated its retirement benefit programs and announced a series of benefit plan changes, which included the discontinuation of the U.S. non union post retirement medical and dental plan. The effect of the discontinuation of the post retirement medical and dental plan was a non cash pre tax benefit of $64.6 million. Interest Expense Prior to the spin off, Hospira did not have any debt. In connection with the spin off, Hospira incurred $700 million principal amount of debt, and, as a result, Hospira incurred interest expense of $18.8 million in 2004. Interest was primarily paid on the senior unsecured notes, which were issued to repay money borrowed under the senior unsecured credit facility that Hospira entered into in connection with the spin off. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, as well as Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K, for further information regarding Hospiras debt. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other income and expense for 2004, 2003 and 2002 primarily includes amounts relating to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest income, losses related to equity method investments, asset impairments and other items. Foreign exchange (gains) and losses for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $(0.3) million, $(1.8) million and $3.4 million, respectively. Interest income for 2004 was $2.4 million. Prior to the spin off, Hospira did not hold cash. Losses related to equity investments include amounts allocated from Abbott prior to the spin off for 2004 and 2003 of $1.3 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Hospira does not have equity method investments subsequent to the spin off. Included in 2002 is an asset impairment charge of $16.9 million as a result of other than temporary declines in market values of certain equity securities. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rates were 26.7% in 2004, 27.5% in 2003 and 30.0% in 2002. Excluding the effect of the curtailment benefit, the 2004 effective tax rate was 24.7%. The decreases in the effective tax rates in 2004 and 2003 were due primarily to increased income generated in foreign jurisdictions, which have lower tax rates than the United States. Taxes on income are determined on a separate return basis through April 30, 2004, at which time Hospira became a separate stand alone taxpayer. The effective tax rates are less than the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate principally due to the benefit of tax exemptions, of varying durations, in several taxing jurisdictions. Abbott has retained responsibility for all tax liabilities prior to the spin off date. Liquidity and Capital Resources Summary of Sources and (Uses) of Cash Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Operating activities $ 387.0 $ 368.1 $ 529.4 Investing activities (301.3 ) (193.4 ) (191.0 ) Financing activities 40.6 (174.8 ) (338.6 ) Operating Activities Net Cash From Operating Activities continues to be Hospiras primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. 45 In 2004, operating activities provided net cash of $387.0 million, primarily driven by net income of $301.6 million and non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $145.5 million, offset by the non cash curtailment benefit of $40.4 million, net of tax, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $19.7 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consists principally of an increase in accounts receivables generated primarily by increases in third party sales, increased contributions to pension plans, net of additional provisions, offset by a decrease in inventory and an increase in current liabilities. Cash inflows from increases in current liabilities were generated by increases in accruals related to the build up of infrastructure to operate as a stand alone company, as well as increases in benefit and payroll related accruals, and accrued interest. Inventory decreased from 2003 levels, which were higher than the prior years, as discussed below. In 2003, operating activities provided net cash of $368.1 million, primarily driven by net income of $260.4 million and non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $146.0, offset by $38.2 million of changes in operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted principally of increases in inventories in 2003, primarily to meet sales initiatives in future periods, to better match inventory levels with customer demand, and to a short term increase in the manufacturing process, and decreases in trade accounts payable and other liabilities due to the timing of payments of customer rebates and the domestic year end payroll. Before the effect of operating assets and liabilities changes, cash provided by operations was $406.7 million, $406.3 million, and $380.4 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Investing Activities Hospiras investing activities consist principally of capital expenditures necessary to expand and upgrade our manufacturing capabilities and infrastructure, and purchases of marketable securities. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities included payments of $228.9 million in 2004 primarily related to upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development and administrative support facilities, and information technology systems. Prior to the spin off, Hospira remitted cash generated primarily from operations to Abbott. Subsequent to the spin off, Hospira invests cash, depending on working capital requirements, in marketable securities. Financing Activities Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities in 2004 consisted primarily of net transactions with Abbott previous to and related to the spin off, receipt of the payment from Abbott related to the pension funding level requirements under the Employee Benefits Agreement, and the issuance and payment of short term and long term debt, net of discount and financing fees. Operational transactions with Abbott after the spin off are included in operating cash flows. Prior to the spin off, Hospira, as part of Abbott, did not hold cash, and the related transactions with Abbott were reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows in the financing section as "Net transactions with Abbott Laboratories." Subsequent to the spin off, Hospira retains cash and cash equivalents, which primarily include demand deposits with banks or other financial institutions. Summary of Financial Position Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Cash and cash equivalents $ 127.7 $ $ Marketable securities 72.4 Working capital 662.1 681.7 571.8 Long term debt 698.8 Due to Abbott (Includes current and long term) 189.1 46 Working Capital The decrease in working capital in 2004 was primarily due to the current portion of "Due to Abbott, Net," which is principally related to the liability for the international net assets to be purchased from Abbott, and decreases in inventory, offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, trade receivables, and current deferred income taxes. The increase in cash is due primarily to eight months of cash flow from operations being retained by Hospira that prior to the spin off would have been remitted to Abbott. The increase in working capital at December 31, 2003 was primarily due to higher inventory levels and lower other accrued liabilities at December 31, 2003, as discussed above. Hospira believes that current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations and funds available from its revolving credit facility will be sufficient to finance its operations for the foreseeable future, including product development, transition costs, international net asset acquisitions and capital expenditures. Debt and Capital On April 28, 2004, Abbott and Hospira entered into a short term $700 million principal amount senior unsecured credit facility ("Senior Facility"). The proceeds of the Senior Facility were retained by Abbott. On the spin off date, Abbott was relieved of all obligations under the Senior Facility and Hospira became solely responsible for repayment of the principal and for payment of interest and fees on this debt. On June 15, 2004, all amounts under the Senior Facility were repaid with proceeds from the senior unsecured notes, together with cash on hand. Hospira entered into a credit facility on April 30, 2004, which consists of an unsecured revolving credit facility of $375 million ("Revolver") and is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. Borrowings under the Revolver initially bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, plus a utilization fee if borrowings under the Revolver exceed $125 million. Interest and the annual facility fee under the Revolver are subject to increase or decrease if there is a change in Hospiras current credit rating of BBB by Standard & Poors. The commitment is subject to an annual facility fee, and expires in April 2009. As of December 31, 2004, Hospira had no amounts outstanding under the Revolver. On June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an offering of a $700 million aggregate principal amount of notes, consisting of $300 million principal amount of five year senior unsecured notes and $400 million principal amount of ten year senior unsecured notes. The $300 million five year notes bear interest at a rate of 4.95% per annum and mature on June 15, 2009, and the $400 million ten year notes bear interest at a rate of 5.90% per annum and mature on June 15, 2014. The proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, were used to repay all amounts outstanding under the $700 million Senior Facility that Hospira entered into in connection with the spin off. Subsequently, Hospira filed a registration statement, which was declared effective by the SEC on July 22, 2004 and provided for the exchange of the initial notes for registered notes with identical terms. The exchange of unregistered for registered notes was completed on August 26, 2004. In January 2005, Hospira entered into an interest rate swap on the five year notes as described under "Item 7A Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitive Instruments." The Revolver and Senior Unsecured Notes contain, among other provisions, covenants with which Hospira must comply while they are in force. Under such covenants, Hospira is restricted or prohibited from allowing liens on properties or assets, merging or consolidating with any other corporation. The Revolver further prohibits or restricts Hospira from selling certain assets, making certain investments and making restricted payments. Under the Revolver, Hospira must also comply with certain financial covenants, including interest coverage ratio, leverage ratio and minimum consolidated net worth. As of December 31, 2004, Hospira was in compliance with all such covenants. 47 Hospira is obligated to purchase certain international operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, from Abbott over a two year period after the spin off date, as Hospira establishes its business infrastructure outside the United States and obtains regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The purchase price will be equal to the net book value of those assets and liabilities at the time of such purchase. Accordingly, the net book value will be affected by normal operations, exchange rates and other business factors. Hospira pays Abbott interest on a portion of this purchase price at local prevailing short term rates in connection with Hospiras use of these assets during that period. Hospira expects to fund these net asset purchases from operating cash flow. As of December 31, 2004, the net book value of those assets and liabilities was approximately $281 million. The amount owed for the net book value of assets and liabilities is offset by $87 million of items that are due from Abbott related to the international business. These items include amounts due for operating profits and inventory purchases of Hospira products to support the international business. Contractual Obligations Hospira has no material exposures to off balance sheet arrangements, no special purpose entities, and no activities that include non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value. The following table summarizes Hospiras estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004 (dollars in millions): Payment Due by Period Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and Thereafter Long term debt and interest payments $ 1,010.3 $ 38.5 $ 76.9 $ 376.9 $ 518.0 Lease obligations 159.3 20.9 33.5 30.0 74.9 Purchase commitments(1) 394.3 378.6 15.7 Other long term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet(2) 12.3 12.3 Amounts due to Abbott for acquisition of certain international net assets(3) 280.8 171.6 109.2 Total $ 1,857.0 $ 609.6 $ 247.6 $ 406.9 $ 592.9 (1)Purchase commitments consist primarily of inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements. Contractual capital commitments are also included here, but these commitments represent only a portion of the expected capital spending in 2005 and beyond. (2)Excludes approximately $83.8 million of other long term liabilities related primarily to post retirement benefit obligations. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K regarding benefit payments for post retirement obligations. Hospira does not expect to contribute to its main U.S. pension plan in 2005. (3)The amount due to Abbott for the acquisition of certain international net assets excludes an offsetting amount of $87 million for items that are due from Abbott related to the international business. These include amounts due for operating profits and inventory purchases of Hospira products to support the international business. Hospiras commercial commitments as of December 31, 2004, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, primarily consist of non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of 48 December 31, 2004, Hospira had $5.7 million of outstanding letters of credit, all with expirations in 2005. No amounts have been drawn on these letters of credit. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs." This statement clarifies the accounting for the abnormal amount of idle facilities expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material. This statement requires that those items be recognized as current period expense. In addition the statement requires that allocation of fixed overhead to the cost of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. This statement is effective for inventory costs incurred after December 31, 2005. Adoption of this statement is not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements of Hospira. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, "Share Based Payment," which requires, among other changes, that the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized as compensation cost over the vesting period based on the fair value of the instrument on the date of grant. SFAS No. 123R revises SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" which previously allowed pro forma disclosure of certain compensation expense. Further, SFAS No. 123R supercedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," which previously allowed the intrinsic value method of accounting for stock options rather than fair value method when determining option value used to measure compensation cost. SFAS No. 123R is effective for Hospira beginning in the third quarter of 2005, at which time Hospira will commence recording compensation expense for any unvested share based payments previously issued over the remaining vesting period. In addition, compensation expense will be recorded when granted for future share based payments over the specified vesting period. Hospira discloses in Note 10 the pro forma net income and earnings per share as if the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 had been applied through December 31, 2004. Hospira is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 123R on its financial position and results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued two FASB Staff Positions ("FSP") that provide accounting guidance on how companies should account for the effects of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("Jobs Act") that was signed into law on October 22, 2004. FSP No. 109 1, "Application of FASB No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction Provided to U.S. Based Manufacturers by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004," indicates the tax deduction would be accounted for as a special deduction instead of a tax rate reduction. Beginning in 2005, Hospira will recognize the allowable deduction as qualifying activity occurs. FSP No. 109 2, "Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004," provides additional time beyond the current financial reporting period to evaluate the effects on plans for reinvestment or repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings. See Note 5 in the consolidated financial statements and Legislative Issues below for further discussion. Legislative Issues The Jobs Act, signed in October 2004, provides for a special one time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer, provided certain criteria are met. Tax authorities are expected to provide clarifying language on key elements of the repatriation provisions that remain unclear. Hospira has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of the Jobs Act on undistributed earnings, in part due to the pending clarifying language and its effect on the economic value of implementing any individual opportunity and its ability to meet qualifying criteria. Accordingly, at this time it is not possible to reasonably estimate the amount of undistributed earnings that may be repatriated and the income tax effects of such repatriation. 49 Hospiras primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulation. Hospira expects debate to continue at both the federal and state levels over the availability, method of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services. If additional legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing prices, or reducing the rate of price increases, for medical products and services. International operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Hospira or the healthcare industry in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future.  Item 7A Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instrument and Risk Management Hospira operates globally, and earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates, and interest rates. Upon consideration of management objectives, costs and opportunities, Hospira may use derivative instruments, including foreign currency forward exchange contracts, and interest rate swaps to manage these risks. Hospira enters into derivative instrument contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions to limit the amount of credit exposure to nonperformance by any one institution. Hospira does not utilize derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras operations are exposed to currency exchange rate risk, which is mitigated by Hospiras use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts ("forward contracts"). The objective in managing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Currency exposures include third party trade payables and receivables, and intercompany loans where the asset or liability is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. Forward contract gains and losses on these exposures substantially offset the remeasurement of the hedged asset or liability. In addition, currency exposures exist for certain subsidiaries for anticipated intercompany purchases, firm commitments, and third party forecasted transactions expected to be denominated in a foreign currency due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Forward contract gains and losses for these exposures are included in other income during the term of the forward contract, as they are not formally designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Net forward contract expense and the notional value of forward contracts were not significant in 2004 and 2003. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira participated in Abbotts management of these same foreign currency exposures. In addition, Hospira is obligated to purchase certain international operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, from Abbott over a two year period after the spin off date as Hospira establishes its business infrastructure outside the United States and obtains regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The purchase price will be equal to the net book value of those assets and liabilities at the time of such purchase. Accordingly, the net book value will be affected by normal operations, exchange rates and other business factors. Exchange rate gains and losses on the net asset exposures are substantially offset by the remeasurement of a portion of the due to Abbott liability, both of which are denominated in the foreign currency of the applicable country. Upon purchase, the net assets will be maintained in the functional currency of the operating country whereby exchange rate changes affecting the net assets will be included as cumulative translation adjustments in equity. Hospira does not currently intend to hedge the net investment exposure. 50 Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras primary interest rate exposures relate to cash and cash equivalents, and fixed and variable rate debt. The objective in managing exposure to changes in interest rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Hospiras investment portfolio of $208.2 million consists of cash and cash equivalents, market auction debt securities, and equity securities, which are classified as "available for sale." For market auction debt securities and equity securities any gains or losses will not be recognized in our statements of income until the investment is sold or if there is a reduction in fair value that is determined to be an other than temporary impairment. The carrying value of the investment portfolio approximates fair market value at December 31, 2004 and the value at maturity, as the majority of investments consist of securities with maturities of less than three months. Because our investments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and market auction debt securities, a hypothetical one percent change in interest rates is not likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. In conjunction with the spin off from Abbott, on June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an underwritten offering of a consolidated $700 million aggregate principal amount consisting of $300 million five year senior unsecured notes and $400 million ten year senior unsecured notes both of which bear a fixed rate of interest. In addition, Hospiras credit facility, entered into on April 30, 2004, consists of an unsecured revolving credit facility of $375 million ("Revolver") that is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. As of December 31, 2004, Hospira had no amounts outstanding under the Revolver. In January 2005, Hospira entered into interest rate swap transactions whereby the $300 million five year senior unsecured notes due in June 2009 were effectively converted from fixed to floating rate debt. The objective of the transactions entered into was to (i) maintain a capital structure containing appropriate amounts of fixed and floating rate debt, and (ii) lower the interest expense on these notes in the near term. Hospira does not expect cash flows from debt related interest rate sensitive instruments to be affected to a significant degree by reasonable changes in market interest rates. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above, as well as Notes 3 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K, for further information. 51   
 
