Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained in this annual report. These forward looking statements speak only as of the date on which the statements were made. Hospira undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  PART I Item 1. Business Overview Hospira is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company that is focused on products that improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care in the acute care setting. Hospira is a leader in the development, manufacture and marketing of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication delivery systems that deliver drugs and intravenous ("I.V.") fluids. Hospira is also a leading provider of contract manufacturing services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, which are together referred to as the "continuum of care." In 2005, Hospiras net sales were $2.63 billion, on which it earned net income of $235.6 million. The United States is the largest market for Hospiras products and accounted for approximately 83% of 2005 sales. Sales outside the United States accounted for the remaining 17% of sales. Hospira has two reportable segments, U.S. and International, through which its products are sold. For financial information relating to Hospiras segments and the geographic areas, see Note 10 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this document. As each reportable segment produces and sells similar products and services, unless the context requires otherwise, the disclosure in Items 1 and 1A relates to both reportable segments. General Development of Business Hospiras business has an approximately 70 year history. Prior to its spin off from Abbott Laboratories on April 30, 2004, Hospiras business was conducted by Abbott, and for all periods prior to the spin off, references in this annual report to Hospiras historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities are generally intended to refer to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of Hospiras business as it was conducted as a part of Abbott. Under the terms 1 of the spin off, the legal title to certain assets and operations relating to Hospiras business outside the United States will be transferred from Abbott over the two year period after the spin off. Prior to their transfer, these operations and net assets are used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by the operations and net assets. The terms of the spin off are described in more detail in this Item 1 under "Arrangements with Abbott." Hospira was incorporated in Delaware on September 16, 2003, as a wholly owned subsidiary of Abbott. As part of a plan to spin off its core hospital products business, Abbott transferred the assets and liabilities relating to Hospiras business to Hospira and, on April 30, 2004, distributed Hospiras common stock to Abbotts shareholders. On that date, Hospira began operating as an independent company, and on May 3, 2004, Hospiras common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "HSP." The transfer of assets and liabilities to Hospira, and distribution of Hospira common stock as described above are sometimes referred to in this document as the "spin off" and April 30, 2004 is sometimes referred to as the "spin off date." During 2005, Hospira continued its separation from Abbott. By year end, Abbott had transferred legal title to the net assets and operations in 36 countries to Hospira. Hospira also launched three of four planned international regional headquarters. Hospira progressed on other transition activities, having completed over 50% of its transition services agreements with Abbott by the end of 2005, and significant work on the establishment of independent information technology systems. Products Hospiras portfolio of products is composed of five main product lines: Product Line Description Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals More than 130 injectable generic drugs in more than 600 dosages and formulations Precedex&reg; (dexmedetomidine HCl), a proprietary drug for sedation Medication Delivery Systems Medication management systems that include electronic pumps and sets for I.V. drug delivery, and patient controlled analgesia for pain management Pre mixed drug solutions and nutritionals for I.V. infusion I.V. solutions and supplies Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing Formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable pharmaceuticals on a contract basis for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies Other Sales through alternate site providers, including clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities Hemodynamic monitoring systems used in the intensive care setting, critical care units to measure cardiac output and blood flow, and brain function monitoring devices International Sales of Hospiras products outside the United States Hospira believes that, in addition to rising costs, healthcare providers in the United States continue to confront significant challenges in their efforts to improve patient safety, comply with higher regulatory and industry standards for patient and clinician safety, and meet an increased demand for 2 services. Hospira believes that healthcare providers, on a global basis, are seeking quality products and services that will enable them to better meet their goals of increasing patient safety and the effectiveness of clinical care while decreasing their overall costs and improving productivity. Hospira offers products to help healthcare providers achieve these goals. Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line primarily consists of generic injectable pharmaceuticals, which provide customers with a lower cost alternative to branded products whose patents have expired. Hospira has more than 130 generic injectable products in more than 600 dosages and formulations. These drugs therapeutic areas include cardiovascular, anesthesia, anti infectives, analgesics, emergency and other. All of Hospiras generic injectable pharmaceuticals include unit of use bar code labels that can be used to support medication management efforts. Hospira procures the active pharmaceutical ingredients in these products from third party suppliers. During 2005, Hospira launched three new products in its generic injectable pharmaceutical product line, including the anti infective ceftriaxone in the United States on the day of its patent expiration. Hospira believes that novel drug delivery formulations and formats are key points of product differentiation for generic injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira offers a wide variety of drug delivery options, and believes that its products assist its customers efforts to enhance safety, increase productivity and reduce waste. Hospiras drug delivery formats include standard offerings in ampoules and flip top vials, which clinicians can use with standard syringes. Hospiras proprietary drug delivery options include Carpuject&reg; prefilled syringes, patient controlled analgesia syringes for use with its LifeCare PCA&reg; drug delivery pumps, Ansyr&reg; prefilled needleless emergency syringe systems, First Choice&reg; ready to use premixed formulations and the ADD Vantage&reg; System for preparing drug solutions from prepackaged drug powders or concentrates. Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceutical product portfolio also includes Precedex&reg; (dexmedetomidine HCl), a proprietary sedative that is used in the intensive care setting. Precedex&reg; is a registered trademark of Orion Corporation and is licensed to Hospira by Orion. Medication Delivery Systems The subgroups of the medication delivery systems market that Hospira serves are (1) medication management systems, which include electronic drug delivery pumps, and related administration sets and accessories, and (2) infusion therapy solutions and products that are used to deliver I.V. fluids and medications to patients. Medication Management Systems. Medication management systems include electronic drug delivery pumps and administration sets that are used to deliver I.V. fluids and medications. Hospiras systems consist of a reusable electronic drug delivery pump and disposable administration sets that are designed to fit a specific drug delivery pump model. Worldwide, Hospira estimates that more than 400,000 of its electronic drug delivery pumps are currently in use. Hospiras electronic delivery pumps include its next generation patient controlled analgesia device, the LifeCare PCA&reg;; the Plum A+&reg; infusion pump; the Plum A+&reg;3 (triple channel) infusion system; the GemStar&reg; ambulatory infusion pump; and the OmniFlow&reg; 4000 Plus multi channel pump. Hospira believes that electronic drug delivery pumps with enhanced systems capabilities have become a key contributor in efforts to improve medication management programs and decrease the incidence of medication errors. The Hospira MedNet&reg; system is used in the Plum A+&reg; infusion pump, the Plum A+&reg;3 (triple channel) infusion system and, as of February 2006, the LifeCare PCA&reg; patient controlled analgesia device. It has been designed to provide customers with drug information and decision support capabilities in a framework that can be used to create clinical decision policies and safety rule sets for clinicians at the point of care, and to facilitate the development, distribution and 3 documentation of hospital defined best practices at the patient bedside. The Hospira MedNet&reg; system has been designed to be compatible eventually with the majority of Hospiras line of electronic drug delivery pumps. The Hospira MedNet&reg; system was launched in December 2003, and Hospira believes it had penetrated approximately 35% of the available market of the Plum A+&reg; installed base by December 2005. Late in 2005, Hospira launched the wireless network versions of the Hospira MedNet&reg; system for its Plum A+&reg; and Plum A+&reg;3 electronic delivery pumps. The wireless version of the Hospira MedNet&reg; system establishes real time send and receive capability and can interface with hospital and pharmacy information systems. Hospira continues to work with information technology companies to integrate the Hospira MedNet&reg; system with other systems. Infusion Therapy Solutions and Supplies. Hospira offers a broad product line of infusion therapy solutions and supplies that includes I.V. solutions for general use, I.V. nutrition products, and solutions for the washing and cleansing of wounds or surgical sites. All of Hospiras injectable I.V. solutions include unit of use bar code labels that can be used to support medication management efforts. Hospiras line of infusion therapy supplies includes administration sets used in gravity I.V. administration, I.V. catheters and safety devices that are used to facilitate delivery of I.V. fluids and medications without the use of needles. Hospira offers needlestick safety products and programs to support its customers needlestick safety initiatives. LifeShield&reg; CLAVE&reg; and MicroCLAVE&reg; connectors are one piece valves that directly connect syringes filled with medications to a patients I.V. line without the use of needles. ICU Medical, Inc.s ("ICU") CLAVE&reg; connectors are a component of administration sets sold by Hospira to its customers in the United States and select markets outside the United States. Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing Through its One 2 One&reg; manufacturing services group, Hospira provides contract manufacturing services for formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable drugs worldwide. Hospira works with its customers to develop stable injectable forms of their drugs, and Hospira fills and finishes those and other drugs into containers and packaging selected by the customer. The customer then sells the finished products under its own label. Hospiras One 2 One&reg; manufacturing services group does not manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients, but offers a wide range of filling and finishing services, including solutions preparation, sterile filling, lyophilization, terminal sterilization and packaging, and has expertise in formulation development, analytical development and regulatory services. Client companies can choose from a variety of delivery systems that include vials, flexible containers, pre filled syringes and proprietary drug delivery systems such as ADD Vantage&reg;. One 2 One&reg; serves numerous customers, including many of the largest global pharmaceutical companies. Other Other includes sales of Hospiras products to alternate site providers such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, as well as sales of critical care devices. Critical care devices are used to monitor vital signs as well as specific physiologic functions of key organ systems. Hospira provides hemodynamic monitoring systems that are used to monitor cardiac function and blood flow in critically ill patients. Hospiras critical care devices include its Transpac&reg; disposable blood pressure sensing devices, Safeset Blood Sampling System, and various catheter systems. In October 2005, Hospira launched the SEDLine brain function monitoring system, which is used to evaluate the effects of anesthesia and sedation of patients during medical procedures. 4 International Internationally, Hospiras products are similar to those offered in the United States. Hospira continues to establish its own business infrastructure to support its international operations. Abbott agreed to provide various services to support Hospiras international operations for up to two years following the spin off. Abbott and Hospira agreed that legal title to certain international assets and operations will be transferred from Abbott over the transition period as described below under " Arrangements With Abbott International Agreements." Prior to transfer of legal title, these operations and net assets are used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by the operations and net assets The transfers began in 2005, with legal title to the net assets and operations in 36 countries being transferred to Hospira during the year. These transfers are expected to continue through mid 2006. Hospira also established international regional hubs in Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Montreal, Canada; and Mexico City, Mexico. Hospira plans to establish a fourth international regional hub in Osaka, Japan in 2006. Hospira continues to assess its product portfolio and international markets on a country by country basis in an effort to determine those countries that provide the greatest potential for Hospiras business. Hospira is establishing a direct commercial infrastructure in countries that offer the most initial potential, while offering products through distributors in other countries. Hospira expects to exit certain other countries altogether. Customers, Sales and Distribution The United States accounted for approximately 83% of Hospiras 2005 net sales. Hospiras primary customers in the United States include hospitals, integrated delivery networks, alternate site facilities, and medical product and drug wholesalers. A substantial portion of Hospiras products is sold to group purchasing organization ("GPO") member hospitals and through wholesalers and distributors. Sales through the four largest wholesalers that supply products to many end users accounted for approximately 42% of total net sales during 2005. As end users of Hospiras products have multiple ways to access Hospiras products, including through more than one wholesaler or distributor, and, in some cases, from Hospira directly, Hospira believes that it is not dependent on any single wholesaler or distributor for distribution of its products. Hospira has pricing agreements for specified products with the major GPOs in the United States, including AmeriNet, Inc.; Broadlane Healthcare Corporation; Consorta, Inc.; MedAssets Inc.; Novation, LLC; PACT, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. The scope of products included in these agreements varies by GPO. Hospira has configured its U.S. sales and marketing organizations to address the needs of customers across the continuum of care. Hospiras sales organization includes sales professionals who sell across its major product lines, as well as product specialists who detail and promote its medication delivery systems, and sales personnel who market and sell Precedex&reg; and select other products. Hospira also has extensive experience contracting with, marketing to and servicing members of the major GPOs. In the United States, Hospiras products are primarily distributed through a network of five distribution facilities as well as through external distributors. The U.S. distribution facilities Hospira operates are located in Atlanta, Georgia; Dallas, Texas; King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; Los Angeles, California; and Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin. Sales in markets outside the United States comprised approximately 17% of 2005 net sales. Hospiras primary customers in markets outside the United States are hospitals and wholesalers that Hospira serves through a direct sales force and a network of distributors. The majority of Hospiras business outside the United States is contract or tender driven. Hospira believes that backlogged orders do not represent a material portion of its sales or provide a meaningful indication of future sales. 5 Product Development Hospiras development programs are concentrated in the areas of medication delivery systems and generic injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira also maintains an active development program to support its injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing relationships. Hospira primarily engages in programs to bring new products to market that enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, productivity, safety and reliability of existing products, and that expand the use of Hospiras products in new markets or new applications. Hospira operates three product development facilities located in Lake County, Illinois, and Morgan Hill and San Diego, California. In 2005, Hospira began to occupy a new 190,000 square foot research and development facility in Lake Forest, Illinois, which will replace facilities leased from Abbott under a transitional arrangement. To capitalize on customer demand for lower cost pharmaceutical products, Hospira is actively working to develop new generic injectable pharmaceuticals. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had 46 products in its generic injectable pipeline, representing 31 different drug compounds. This is an increase of 10 products and three drug compounds since December 31, 2004. Hospiras key programs in the area of medication delivery systems include the development of advanced infusion platforms and systems. Hospiras medication delivery systems in development have been designed to use bar coding to help prevent medication errors, thereby improving safety in the acute care setting. Hospira has entered into alliances with several leading information technology companies to further efforts to develop systems that "close the loop" on medication management and improve cost efficiencies in patient management. It expects to continue to enter into strategic alliances as part of an "open system architecture." Hospira develops and markets PVC free and DEHP free infusion therapy product alternatives. The latest products made from these alternative materials were introduced in 2005, including sets designed for use on neonatal patients and additional options for use with blood and lipid containing drugs and solutions. Hospiras research and development expenses in 2005 were $138.8 million. Hospira has spent $368.1 million on research and development over the last three years. Manufacturing Hospira is a global manufacturer operating 11 plants in the Americas and three plants in Europe. Hospiras plant locations within the Americas are: Ashland, Ohio; Austin, Texas; Buffalo, New York; Clayton, North Carolina; La Aurora, Costa Rica; McPherson, Kansas; Montreal, Canada; Morgan Hill, California; North Chicago, Illinois; Rocky Mount, North Carolina; and San Cristobal, Dominican Republic. In Europe, Hospira operates manufacturing facilities located in Lurganbuoy, Donegal, and Finisklin, Sligo, Ireland, and Liscate, Italy. As previously announced, Hospira expects to close the Donegal facility by early 2007, the Ashland facility by mid to late 2007 and the Montreal facility by mid 2008. Hospira expects to phase out production at the North Chicago facility, which is leased from Abbott under a 10 year lease expiring in 2014, on an accelerated time frame with most of the phase out occurring by the end of 2009. Production of the primary products at these facilities is expected to move to other Hospira facilities and or be outsourced to third party suppliers. Hospira began a $60 million expansion of manufacturing capacity at the McPherson facility, in part to accommodate some of the production from the North Chicago facility. Hospiras two largest domestic facilities, Rocky Mount and Austin, account for a significant portion of Hospiras manufacturing output. While Hospira has not experienced a significant interruption of 6 manufacturing at those facilities, such an interruption could materially and adversely affect Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. Hospiras manufacturing operations are focused on regulatory compliance, continuous improvement, process standardization and excellence in execution across the organization. The operations are structured around an enterprise management philosophy and methodology that utilizes principles and tools common to a number of quality management programs including Six Sigma Quality, Lean Manufacturing and Total Quality Management. Raw Materials and Components While Hospira produces some raw materials and components at its manufacturing sites, the majority of raw materials and components that it uses are sourced externally on a global basis. Hospira procures the active pharmaceutical ingredients in its drug products from third party suppliers. Although many of the raw materials and components Hospira uses to produce its products are readily available from multiple suppliers, Hospira relies on supply from a single source for many raw materials and components. Hospira relies on proprietary components available exclusively from ICU. ICUs CLAVE&reg; and MicroCLAVE&reg; connector products are components of administration sets that represented more than 13% of Hospiras 2005 sales. Hospira also purchases a significant portion of its critical care products from ICU, pursuant to its long term manufacturing, commercialization and development agreement with ICU entered into during 2005. In addition, Hospira purchases some of its raw materials and components from single suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. Hospira works very closely with its suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining excellence in quality and reliability. Hospira continually evaluates alternate source suppliers, although it does not typically pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of its existing supplier relationships, the reliability of its current supplier base, and the time and expense associated with the regulatory process. Although a change in suppliers could require significant effort or investment by Hospira in circumstances where the items supplied are integral to the performance of its products or incorporate unique technology, Hospira does not believe that the loss of any existing supply arrangement (other than its CLAVE&reg; supply arrangement with ICU, which continues through 2014) would have a material adverse effect on its business. Quality Assurance Hospira is committed to creating and maintaining the highest standard of regulatory compliance while providing high quality products to its customers. Hospira has developed and implemented quality systems and concepts throughout its organization. Hospira is actively involved in setting quality policies and managing internal and external quality performance. Its quality assurance department provides quality leadership and supervises its quality systems. An active audit program, utilizing both internal and external auditors, monitors compliance with applicable regulations, standards and internal policies. In addition, Hospiras facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the United States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") and other regulatory authorities. In the past, Hospiras business has received notices alleging violations of applicable regulations and standards, and Hospira has developed definitive action plans, implemented remedial programs and modified its practices to address these issues. Hospiras quality system is designed to incorporate quality and utilize continuous improvement concepts throughout the product life cycle. 7 Arrangements with Abbott In connection with the spin off, Hospira entered into the following agreements with Abbott: Separation and Distribution Agreement; Employee Benefits Agreement; Transition Services Agreement; Information Technology Agreement; International Agreements; Manufacture and Supply Agreements; and Tax Sharing Agreement. In addition, Hospira entered into leases and subleases with Abbott for locations that Hospira shares with Abbott. Subleases for space in commercially leased locations have varying terms, generally matching the terms of the underlying leases. The agreements summarized below are filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits to this annual report, and the summaries of each of these agreements set forth those terms Hospira believes to be material. These summaries are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the agreements. Separation and Distribution Agreement The Separation and Distribution Agreement sets forth the agreements between Hospira and Abbott with respect to the principal corporate transactions that effected the separation and transfer of the core hospital products business from Abbott to Hospira, the distribution of Hospiras shares to Abbott shareholders and other agreements governing the relationship between Abbott and Hospira. The Separation. In effecting the spin off, Abbott and its subsidiaries transferred the assets and liabilities of Hospiras business to Hospira. The transfer to Hospira of the United States assets and liabilities and the manufacturing assets and liabilities outside the United States occurred at or prior to the spin off. The non manufacturing assets and associated liabilities outside the United States are being transferred to Hospira pursuant to the terms of the international agreements described below. Proceeding Liabilities. Except as expressly set forth in the Separation and Distribution Agreement or in any ancillary agreement, Hospira assumed all liabilities of Abbott and its subsidiaries to the extent relating to, arising out of or resulting from actions, inactions, events, omissions, conditions, facts or circumstances occurring or existing prior to the spin off to the extent such liabilities relate to, arise out of or result from Hospiras business and assets. The liabilities that Hospira assumed include, among other things, liabilities for any claims or legal proceedings related to products that had been part of Hospiras business but were discontinued prior to the spin off. However, Hospira did not assume certain liabilities of Abbott or its subsidiaries relating to allegations in pending or future investigations and lawsuits that Hospiras business engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices as described in "Item 3 Legal Proceedings Marketing and Pricing Cases." Employee Benefits Agreement Hospira and Abbott entered into an Employee Benefits Agreement to allocate liabilities and responsibilities relating to employment matters, employee compensation and benefits plans and programs and other related matters. 8  The Employee Benefits Agreement provides that, as of the spin off, Hospira generally assumed all employment related obligations and liabilities for all U.S. employees who transferred employment to Hospira in connection with the spin off, including salaries and vacation, except as otherwise provided in the agreement. Abbott generally retained responsibility for all employment related obligations and liabilities for U.S. non union employees who terminated their employment or retired prior to the spin off or who otherwise did not transfer employment to Hospira in connection with the spin off, except as otherwise provided in the agreement. Abbott retained liabilities for post retirement medical, dental and life insurance benefits for U.S. non union employees who were retired at the time of the spin off and for those U.S. non union employees who were eligible to retire as of the time of the spin off (commencing on or after their retirement with Hospira), for other medical and dental claims which are incurred by employees of Hospiras business prior to the spin off, and for certain deferred compensation and supplemental pension obligations, subject in all cases to the terms of the agreement and the applicable Abbott plans. Hospira assumed and is liable for the pension and other benefits of Hospiras current and former union employees at its Ashland, Ohio site. Hospiras obligations with respect to employees outside the United States will be handled in accordance with the terms of applicable local plans and local law. Transition Services Agreements Hospira and Abbott entered into Transition Services Agreements prior to the spin off pursuant to which Hospira and Abbott agreed to provide to the other, on an interim, transitional basis, various services, including treasury administration, employee benefits administration and quality assurance services. The charges agreed upon for such services are generally intended to allow the servicing party to recover all out of pocket costs and expenses and a predetermined profit. The services generally commenced at the time of the spin off and will terminate no later than 24 months following the spin off. The receiving party may terminate the provision of such services upon prior written notice. The agreements cover approximately 200 services, of which more than 50% had been terminated as of the end of 2005. Information Technology Agreement Hospira and Abbott entered into an Information Technology Agreement that provides for the separation of various information technology systems and services that Hospira shared with Abbott. The term of the Information Technology Agreement is two years from the spin off. The Information Technology Agreement includes work schedules to effect the separation of the information technology systems and specifies the parties responsibilities for associated project costs. International Agreements Hospira and Abbott entered into Transition Marketing and Distribution Service Agreements and an International Commercial Operations Agreement pursuant to which Abbotts subsidiaries act as non exclusive distributors for Hospira products and perform regulatory, pharmacovigilance, promotional, marketing, distribution and selling activities for Hospira products outside the United States. Under the spin off agreements, Hospira and Abbott agreed that legal title to the non manufacturing assets and related liabilities outside the United States would be transferred from Abbott to Hospira on a country by country basis, generally over the course of the two years following the spin off. The amount payable to Abbott is equal to the net book value of those assets and liabilities at the time of such transfer. Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by these net assets and operations prior to their transfer. 9 The specific timing of the transfer of these operations has been, and will continue to be, determined based on the establishment of the business infrastructure to support Hospiras operations in the applicable country and the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products by the regulatory authorities in that country. During 2005, the net assets and operations in 36 countries were transferred to Hospira. As of December 31, 2005, the net book value of the assets and liabilities remaining to be transferred was $130.5 million. Manufacture and Supply Agreements Hospira and Abbott entered into Manufacture and Supply Agreements prior to the spin off pertaining to those products, including bulk and finished pharmaceutical products and I.V. solutions, devices and commodities, that each party manufactured and supplied to the other party prior to the spin off and will continue to manufacture and supply to the other party following the spin off. During 2005, the Manufacture and Supply Agreements were extended for a two year period for certain products, which will now terminate during 2008. The agreements include the prices at which the products will be supplied, the ordering procedures to be followed by Hospira and Abbott and any warranties that will be provided by Hospira or Abbott with respect to these products. Tax Sharing Agreement Hospira and Abbott entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement prior to the spin off which generally governs Abbotts and Hospiras respective rights, responsibilities and obligations after the spin off with respect to taxes for any tax period ending on or before the spin off date, as well as tax periods beginning before and ending after the spin off date. Generally, Abbott is liable for all pre spin off U.S. federal income taxes, foreign taxes and certain state taxes attributable to Hospiras business. Hospira generally will be liable for all other taxes attributable to its business. In addition, the Tax Sharing Agreement addresses the allocation of liability for taxes that are incurred as a result of restructuring activities undertaken to effectuate the spin off. The Tax Sharing Agreement also provides that Hospira is liable for taxes incurred by Abbott that arise as a result of Hospiras taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a tax free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. Competition Hospiras industry is highly competitive. Hospira competes with many companies, both public and private, that range from small, highly focused companies to large diversified healthcare manufacturers. Hospira believes that the most effective competitors in its industry are focused on product quality and performance, breadth of product offering, manufacturing efficiency and the ability to develop and deliver cost effective products that help hospitals provide high quality care in an environment that requires increasing levels of efficiency and productivity. Hospiras competitors in medication delivery systems include Baxter International Inc., Becton, Dickinson and Company, B. Braun Melsungen AG, Cardinal Healthcare Inc., Fresenius Medical Care AG and Terumo Medical Corporation. Competitors in specialty injectable pharmaceuticals include American Pharmaceutical Partners, Inc., Baxter and Teva Pharmaceuticals, as well as divisions of several multinational pharmaceutical companies. Baxter, Cardinal and Patheon, Inc. are significant competitors of Hospiras contract manufacturing business. Edwards Lifesciences Corporation is a significant competitor in critical care monitoring devices. Local manufacturers of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals also compete with Hospira on a country by country basis. Hospira believes that it is one of the leading competitors in terms of U.S. market share in each of its major product lines, and believes that its size, scale, customer relationships and breadth of product line are significant contributors to its market positions. Hospira believes that it must continue to invest 10 significantly in research and product development activities, optimize its manufacturing efficiency and productivity, and increase its international presence to further its competitive position. Particularly, within its specialty injectable product line, Hospira seeks to maximize its opportunity to introduce generic injectable drugs on the day of patent expiration and, within its medication delivery systems product line, Hospira seeks to differentiate its products through technological innovation and an integrated approach to drug delivery. These efforts will depend heavily on the success of Hospiras research and development programs. Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property When possible, Hospira seeks patent and trademark protection for its products. Hospira owns and is licensed under a substantial number of patents, patent applications, trademarks and trademark applications. However, Hospira does not consider any one or more of these patents, patent applications, trademarks and trademark applications to be material in relation to its business as a whole. Employees As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had approximately 13,000 employees and 1,000 contract staff worldwide. Approximately 9,000 employees and contract staff were in the United States. Employees at the Ashland, Ohio manufacturing facility, and a significant portion of Hospiras employees outside of the United States, are members of works councils or trade unions. After the announcement of the planned closing of the Ashland, Ohio manufacturing facility, Hospira and the United Steelworkers of America negotiated an extension through 2008 of the collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 400 union employees at the facility. Hospira and the union are currently negotiating incentive, termination and other benefits. Hospira also expects to begin negotiations with the union of which the employees at the Montreal, Canada facility are members in connection with the planned closing of that facility. Hospira believes that it generally has a good relationship with its employees and the works councils and unions that represent them. Governmental Regulation and Other Matters Food and Drug Laws Most of Hospiras products and facilities are subject to regulation by the FDA and national and supranational regulatory authorities outside the United States, including Health Canada, Health Products and Foods Branch, and the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for Human Use. Hospiras marketed drugs and devices are subject to regulation with respect to, among other matters, manufacturing, post marketing studies in humans, advertising and promotional activities and materials, product labeling, and post marketing surveillance and reporting of adverse events. All aspects of the manufacturing of regulated products are subject to substantial governmental oversight. Facilities used for the production, packaging, labeling, storage, and distribution of drugs and medical devices must be registered with the FDA and other regulatory authorities. All manufacturing activities for these products must be conducted in compliance with the relevant Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMPs"). Hospiras manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic and for cause inspections to verify compliance with GMPs. New manufacturing facilities or the expansion of existing facilities will require inspection and approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities before products produced at that site can enter commercial distribution. If, upon inspection, the FDA or another regulatory agency finds that a manufacturer has failed to comply with GMPs, it may take various enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning letter or similar correspondence, mandating a 11 product recall, seizing violative product, imposing civil penalties, and referring the matter to a law enforcement authority for criminal prosecution. See "Item IA. Risk Factors Hospira and its suppliers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations and it could be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes." Hospiras sales and marketing activities for regulated products, particularly prescription drugs and restricted medical devices, are also highly regulated. Regulatory authorities have the power to mandate the discontinuance of promotional materials, practices and programs if they include information that is beyond the scope of the indications included in the approved or cleared labeling or is not in compliance with specific regulatory requirements. Some of Hospiras drug products which are considered controlled substances, are also subject to additional regulation by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") and various state and international authorities. These drugs, which have varying degrees of potential for abuse, require specialized controls for production, storage and distribution to prevent theft and diversion. Violation of controlled substance statutes and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties. Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws As a manufacturer and distributor of prescription drugs and medical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers, Hospira and its customers are subject to the federal anti kickback statute, which applies to Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state programs. This statute prohibits the solicitation, offer, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for referrals or the purchase, or in return for recommending or arranging for the referral or purchase, of goods covered by the programs. The anti kickback law provides a number of exceptions or "safe harbors" for particular types of transactions. Hospira believes that its arrangements with its customers are in material compliance with the anti kickback statute and relevant safe harbors. While Hospira generally does not file claims for reimbursement from government payors, the federal government has asserted theories of liability against manufacturers under the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false claims to Medicare, Medicaid, and other state and federal programs. Hospira believes that its arrangements with and actions in regard to its claims filing customers are in material compliance with the Federal False Claims Act. Many states have similar fraud and abuse laws, and Hospira believes that it is in material compliance with those laws. If it were determined that Hospira was not in compliance with those laws, however, Hospira could be subject to criminal and or civil liability, exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other state and federal programs, or other material adverse effects. Environmental Laws Hospiras manufacturing operations worldwide are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. In the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and similar state agencies administer laws which restrict the emission of pollutants into the air, the discharge of pollutants into bodies of water, and the disposal of hazardous substances. Violations of these laws can result in significant civil and criminal penalties, and incarceration. The failure to obtain a permit for certain activities may be a violation of environmental law and subject the owner and operator to civil and criminal sanctions. Most environmental agencies also have the power to shut down an operation if it is operating in violation of environmental law. U.S. laws also typically allow citizens to bring private enforcement actions in some situations. Outside the United States, the environmental laws and their enforcement vary and they can be more burdensome. For example, in some European countries, there are environmental taxes and laws requiring manufacturers to take back used products at the end of their useful life. This does not currently have a significant impact on Hospiras products, but such laws are expanding rapidly in Europe. Hospira has management systems in place which are intended to minimize the potential for violation of these laws. 12 Other environmental laws address the contamination of land and groundwater, and require the clean up of such contamination. These laws may apply not only to the owner or operator of an on going business, but also to the owner of land contaminated by a prior owner or operator. In addition, if a parcel is contaminated by the release of a hazardous substance, such as through its historic use as a disposal site, any person or company that has contributed to that contamination, whether or not they have a legal interest in the land, may be subject to a requirement to clean up the parcel. Hospira has been involved with a number of sites at which clean up has been required, some as the sole owner and responsible party, and some as a contributor in conjunction with other parties. The resulting costs tend to be in the form of legal expenses, contributions to the cost of the investigation or clean up of the contaminated sites, or settlement payments to reimburse the government for past remedial work. Safety and Health Laws In the United States, the Occupational Safety and Health Act sets forth requirements for conditions of the workplace. Hospiras operations are subject to many of these requirements, particularly in connection with Hospiras employees use of equipment and chemicals at manufacturing sites that pose a potential health or safety hazard. Violation of these laws can result in civil and criminal penalties. Transportation Laws Hospiras operations include transporting materials defined as "hazardous" over land, over sea, and through the air. All these activities are regulated under laws administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation and similar agencies outside the United States. They include complex requirements for packing, labeling and recordkeeping, and the failure to comply can result in civil and criminal sanctions. Customs Laws The import and export of many goods across national borders are heavily regulated, especially in the United States. As the importer and exporter of many shipments each year, Hospira must comply with all customs regulations and pay fees and duties on certain shipments. Failure to comply can result in significant financial penalties and criminal sanctions. Other Laws The laws of some states and foreign countries regulate the safety of Hospiras products in the marketplace to a greater extent than FDA requirements. For example, under Californias Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, also known as "Proposition 65," the state has established a list of chemicals considered to be hazardous. If, as a result of the sale in California of a product containing a listed chemical, a person is exposed to the chemical, the seller of that product must provide that person with a warning. Monetary penalties for non compliance can be substantial, although there are no criminal sanctions. Hospira is also subject to a variety of state and foreign compliance, disclosure and anti fraud laws, non compliance with which can result in significant financial penalties and criminal sanctions. As Hospira operates internationally, Hospira is subject to U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti boycott laws. Internet Information Copies of Hospiras Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 13 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Hospira electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hospiras corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and the charters of its audit and public policy committee and nominations and compensation committee are all available in the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) or by sending a request to: Corporate Governance Materials Request, Hospira General Counsel and Secretary, Hospira, Inc., 275 North Field Drive, Dept. NLEG, Bldg. H1, Lake Forest, Illinois 60045.  Item 1A. Risk Factors Hospiras business, financial condition, results and operations and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. These risks and uncertainties may cause (1) Hospiras sales and results of operations to fluctuate significantly, (2) Hospiras past performance to not be indicative of future performance and (3) Hospiras actual performance to differ materially from Hospiras expectations or projections. The risks described below may not be the only risks Hospira faces. Additional risks that Hospira does not yet know of or that Hospira currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations. Risks Relating to Hospiras Transition from Abbott and the Spin off Hospiras historical financial information may not be indicative of its future results as an independent company. Hospira became an independent company as a result of the spin off from Abbott on April 30, 2004. The historical financial information included in this annual report does not reflect what Hospiras results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had Hospira been an independent company during the entire periods presented or, to a greater extent than is generally the case, what Hospiras results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. This is primarily a result of the following three factors: for all periods prior to the spin off, Hospiras historical financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided by Abbott, and these allocations are different from the costs Hospira has incurred for these services after that time as an independent company; for all periods prior to the spin off, Hospiras historical financial information does not reflect the debt Hospira incurred in connection with the spin off (and its subsequent refinancing) and Hospiras obligations to pay Abbott after the spin off for the net assets relating to Hospiras business outside the United States; and for all periods prior to the spin off, the historical financial information does not reflect any increased costs associated with being an independent company, including changes that have occurred in the cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of Hospiras business as a result of the spin off and from reduced economies of scale. Hospira has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, more research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses than it incurred as part of Abbott. These expense levels have increased since the spin off; the amounts included in Hospiras historical financial statements after the spin off are not necessarily indicative of Hospiras future expenditures. Hospira also has taken certain actions to dispose of, or close, certain facilities it received from Abbott in the spin off, including the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility, the impending closures of the Ashland, Ohio, Donegal, Ireland and Montreal, Canada manufacturing facilities and the production phase out at the North Chicago, Illinois manufacturing facility, which have resulted in, or are expected 14 to result in, significant charges to Hospiras income and cash expenditures. Hospira may not recognize the expected cost savings from these activities. See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview." For additional information about the past financial performance of Hospiras business and the basis of presentation of the historical combined financial statements, please see "Item 6. Selected Financial Data," "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Hospiras audited financial statements included in Item 8. For the years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands, except per share amount) Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 2,626,696 $ 2,645,036 $ 2,623,737 $ 2,602,550 $ 2,514,421 Gross profit 849,056 786,601 701,051 719,373 725,455 Income from operations(1) 336,615 427,650 360,375 378,197 395,850 Income before taxes(1) 322,075 411,520 359,121 352,426 389,588 Net income $ 235,638 $ 301,552 $ 260,363 $ 246,698 $ 272,712 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 1.48 $ 1.93 $ 1.67 $ 1.58 $ 1.75 Diluted $ 1.46 $ 1.92 $ 1.67 $ 1.58 $ 1.75 Weighted average common shares outstanding (in thousands): Basic(2) 159,275 156,187 156,043 156,043 156,043 Diluted(2) 161,634 157,160 156,043 156,043 156,043 (1)Includes post retirement medical and dental curtailment benefit of $64.6 million in 2004. (2)For periods prior to April 30, 2004, basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the number of shares of Hospira common stock outstanding on April 30, 2004, the date on which the Hospira common stock was distributed to the shareholders of Abbott in connection with the spin off. December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands) Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 2,789,182 $ 2,342,790 $ 2,250,163 $ 2,153,854 $ 2,133,414 Long term debt $ 695,285 $ 698,841 $ $ $ 31   Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company that is focused on products that improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care in the acute care setting. Hospira is a leader in the development, manufacture and marketing of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication delivery systems that deliver drugs and intravenous (I.V.) fluids. Hospira is also a leading provider of contract manufacturing services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities. Transition from Abbott Hospira became a separate public company on April 30, 2004, when it was spun off from Abbott. References to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of Hospira prior to the spin off are generally intended to refer to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of the business as it was conducted as part of Abbott prior to the spin off. Hospiras consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflect Hospiras operations as a separate, stand alone entity subsequent to the spin off, combined with the historical operations of Hospira when it operated as part of Abbott prior to the spin off. The financial information in the financial statements included in this annual report does not include all the expenses that would have been incurred, nor does it reflect Hospiras results of operations, financial position and cash flows, had Hospira been a stand alone company for all of the periods presented. While Hospira was a part of Abbott, Hospira relied on Abbotts corporate infrastructure and administrative functions. Also as part of Abbott, Hospira was required to compete with Abbotts other major businesses for product development funds and other resources. The level of resources allocated to Hospira affected its research and development project funding, manufacturing cost structure, and marketing, promotion and selling activities. The spin off enabled Hospira to focus exclusively on its business and use its own resources to invest in opportunities targeted to its own markets. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of longer term sales growth. During the 24 month period after the spin off, Hospira must build its own corporate and international infrastructure. Costs relating to these activities have been funded, and are expected to continue to be funded, through its operating cash flow. Hospira has incurred increased expenses on an ongoing basis, including expenses relating to establishing and operating independent corporate functions, operating, maintaining and supporting information technology systems, and operating internationally on a stand alone basis. Hospira has experienced higher costs related to information technology support associated with the implementation of SAP as Hospiras global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. Hospira expects these higher levels of support costs to continue through 2006. It has also incurred expenses on a non recurring, transitional basis, including expenses relating to the establishment of new facilities, the build out of independent information technology systems, and product registration and re labeling. These transitional costs are estimated to total approximately $100 million (pre tax) over the 24 month period subsequent to the spin off. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had incurred $78.4 million of these costs. The transitional and ongoing costs also contributed to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses from 11.5% of net sales in 2004 to 14.2% of net sales in 2005. Hospira has incurred costs in connection with the transfer of legal title of assets outside the United States from Abbott to Hospira, and will continue to incur these costs through mid 2006. Hospira views the ability to operate independently outside the United States as a longer term opportunity to increase its sales and profitability. Under transition arrangements with Abbott, described 32 under "Item 1. Business Arrangements with Abbott," the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States that are legally owned by Abbott, but used by Hospira in its business, are required to be completed over the two year transition period. In connection with those transfers, Hospira is obligated to pay Abbott the net book value of such net assets at the time of transfer. As of December 31, 2005, the net book value of the net assets remaining to be transferred was $130.5 million. Pending the legal transfer to Hospira, these operations and assets are being used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by the operations and assets. Hospira and Abbott entered into various manufacture and supply agreements prior to the spin off under which Hospira sells certain products that it manufactured and supplied to Abbott prior to the spin off. These agreements have an initial two year term (scheduled to expire in April 2006) and may be extended by Abbott for an additional two year term under substantially similar contractual provisions. Some of these agreements will be terminated at the end of the initial two year period, and Hospira expects its sales to Abbott to decline substantially during 2006. Hospiras transition activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of incurring higher than estimated transition related and ongoing costs associated with operating independently, difficulties relating to implementing information technology systems and risks related to transitioning the international operations. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Hospiras Transition from Abbott and the Spin Off." Cost Reduction Activities As part of its strategy to improve margins and cash flows, Hospira has taken a number of actions in an effort to reduce operating costs and optimize its manufacturing capabilities and capacity. Expenditures relating to these activities are not included in the transition activities discussed above. In May 2005, in order to reduce its costs to produce critical care products, Hospira completed a strategic manufacturing, commercialization and development agreement with ICU and sold its Salt Lake City manufacturing facility and related equipment and inventory to ICU. In connection with these transactions, during 2005, Hospira recorded an impairment charge of $2.4 million and a loss of $13.4 million, which is Hospiras best estimate of the cost of certain obligations that Hospira is required to reimburse to ICU over a 24 month period after closing. Both the impairment and the loss related to obligations assumed were recorded in cost of products sold. For further details regarding the financial impact of these transactions, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In August 2005, Hospira announced plans to close its medical device manufacturing plant in Donegal, Ireland by mid 2007. Products produced at the Donegal plant are expected to move to Hospira facilities primarily in Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic, which have available manufacturing capacity to absorb the transfers. Hospira expects to incur $30 million to $40 million of pre tax charges relating to the plant closure. During 2005, Hospira incurred $8.5 million of these charges, which is reported in cost of products sold. The costs consist primarily of severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the building and certain equipment, and other exit costs. Hospira expects to generate cost savings relating to this activity beginning in 2007. For further details regarding the financial impact of this plant closure, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In February 2006, Hospira announced plans to close its plants in Ashland, Ohio and Montreal, Canada over 18 to 28 months, respectively, and also provided a timeline for phasing out production at a facility in Abbott Laboratories North Chicago, Illinois campus, where it has leased space from its former parent company since the spin off in April 2004. Hospira intends to transition out of this facility in advance of the leases expiration in 2014, with a majority of the product transfers occurring over the next four years. Hospira will transfer production of the primary products from these facilities to other 33 Hospira facilities and will outsource certain product components to third party suppliers. The aggregate charges that Hospira will incur related to the plant closings are expected to be in the range of approximately $95 million to $110 million on a pre tax basis, of which approximately $45 million to $55 million are expected to be reported as restructuring charges. The restructuring costs consist primarily of costs related to severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the buildings and certain equipment, and other exit costs. The remaining charges relate to the relocation of production. For further details regarding the financial impact of this plant closure, see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. These cost reduction activities involve risks and uncertainties as relocating or outsourcing production is a complex process. Hospira may incur more charges than estimated and may not realize the expected cost savings on its planned time frame or at all. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Hospiras Business and Industry Hospiras cost reduction activities have resulted in significant charges. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended cost savings." Other Factors Manufacturing and Quality. Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell high quality, low cost products in compliance with regulatory requirements is an important factor to the success of its business. Hospira must comply with detailed regulations governing the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of its products, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, and must incur expense, time and effort to ensure compliance with the complex regulations. Hospira must also maintain continuity of supply of raw materials that comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Its business is subject to risks of manufacturing and supply interruptions, and product quality issues, which can lead to product recalls or field activities. Hospira did not experience significant manufacturing or raw material supply interruptions during 2005. However, in 2005, Hospira experienced higher raw material, freight and utilities costs as a result of rising oil and gas prices. If Hospira is unable to recover these higher costs through improved manufacturing performance or price increases, Hospiras margins will be adversely affected. Hospira has recalled, and or conducted field alerts relating to, certain of its products from time to time. While these activities can lead to costs to repair or replace affected products and temporary interruptions in product sales, and can impact reported results of operations in the applicable period, Hospira does not believe that these activities had a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations during 2005. Product Development. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of sales growth over the longer term. New products and technologies were factors in driving higher gross profit during 2005. To successfully execute its product development strategy, Hospira must continue to develop cost competitive products and enhancements that satisfy customer needs, introduce products on a timely basis and successfully market those products. As a part of this strategy, Hospira may also need to identify, and successfully manage, strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements. During 2006, Hospira expects to generate sales growth, in part by launching 11 new specialty injectable pharmaceutical products, representing seven new compounds, and by offering newer technology drug delivery pumps. Hospiras ability to execute this strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors," including the ability to timely launch new products and enhancements, the ability to successfully manage collaborative arrangements, actions of competitors and acceptance by customers. GPO Contracts. The ability to maintain GPO contracts is an important factor for Hospira to generate sales. Approximately 50% of Hospiras net sales are made under these contracts. Typically, these contracts cover a portion of Hospiras product lines, specify the prices for Hospiras products, and 34 are effective for three to five years. Generally, the contracts are extended or competitively bid prior to contract expiration. Hospira has four GPO pharmacy contracts to be renewed or renegotiated during 2006. If Hospira is unable to renew or renegotiate any significant GPO contracts, its ability to sell products and its profitability may be harmed. Arrangements with Drug Wholesalers. A significant portion of Hospiras generic injectable pharmaceuticals are distributed to end user customers through drug wholesalers. Hospira believes that it has valid contractual relationships with all of its major drug wholesalers, and, in fact, renewed its relationship with one drug wholesaler at the end of 2005. In general, the drug wholesalers are attempting to increase their revenues by implementing a fee for service model for their distribution of pharmaceutical products that would increase fees higher than the levels specified in the existing contracts. Hospira denies that it owes any distribution fees in excess of those set forth in its contracts with the drug wholesalers. One drug wholesaler continues to unilaterally invoice Hospira for higher fees that it alleges are due for the distribution of Hospiras generic injectable pharmaceutical products. Hospira has not recorded any provision for these invoices. Hospira believes that it has adequate arrangements in place to distribute its products and that this matter is not expected to have a material adverse effect on its business or prospects. Share Repurchase. In February 2006, Hospiras board of directors approved a $400 million share repurchase program. Hospira expects to fund any repurchases from operating cash flow. The timing and amount of any repurchases will depend on various factors, including alternative uses of cash, and business and market conditions. The repurchase of shares commenced in early March 2006. Berlex Agreement. During the first half 2005, the agreement under which Hospira distributed Berlex imaging agents was terminated. As a result, during 2006, Hospiras sales are expected to be negatively impacted by $67 million, when compared to 2005. As the Berlex agreement involved relatively low margin products, the absence of profits related to these sales is expected to improve gross margin in 2006, when compared to 2005. Stock Option Expenses. Beginning in 2006, expenses relating to the issuance of employee stock options or other share based payments issued to Hospiras employees will be reflected in Hospiras results of operations. The amount of expense will depend on the number of options (or other share based awards) granted in the future, the terms of those awards and their fair values. For further information, see the information regarding the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123R, "Share Based Payment," ("SFAS No. 123R"), under "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" in this Item 7. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are those policies that require management to make the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive to result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Hospira believes its most critical accounting policies are those described below. For a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Hospira recognizes revenues from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed and determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. For other than certain drug delivery pumps and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing, product revenue is recognized when products are delivered and title passes to customers. 35 Placements of drug delivery pumps with customers typically fall under one of three types of arrangements: outright sales of the drug delivery pump to the customer; placements under lease arrangements; and placements under contracts that include associated disposable set purchases. For placements under lease agreements, certain arrangements for which Hospiras warranty obligation extends through the entire lease term are accounted for as operating leases. For these, Hospira recognizes revenue over the lease term, which averages five years. For leases under which Hospiras warranty obligation is limited to approximately one year, Hospira accounts for these as sales type leases, under which the discounted sales value of the drug delivery pump is recorded as revenue upon placement with the customer. For contracts with multiple deliverables, total revenue is divided among the separate units of accounting (deliverables) based on their relative fair value and is recognized for each deliverable in accordance with the applicable revenue recognition criteria. In instances when fair value exists only for undelivered elements, the residual method is used to allocate total consideration. Injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing involves filling customers active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API") into delivery systems. Under these arrangements, customers API is often consigned to Hospira and revenue is recorded for the materials and labor provided by Hospira, plus a profit, upon shipment to the customer. In addition, Hospira records sales of product rights as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Sales of product rights have not been significant. A large part of Hospiras sales are through wholesalers and to GPO member hospitals. These sales typically include provisions for chargebacks, rebates and other adjustments which are provided for as a reduction in gross sales at the time the related sales are recorded. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amounts of the reduction in gross sales. The most significant provisions are chargebacks and rebates, which are described in the following paragraphs. Chargebacks and Rebates The provision for chargebacks is a significant and complex estimate used to determine the recognition of revenue. Hospira sells products to end customers either directly or through wholesalers who then resell the products to end customers. For products sold through wholesalers, Hospira charges the wholesaler a predetermined price, known as wholesaler acquisition cost, which is typically higher than the amount contracted with the end customer. Wholesalers then sell to the end customer at the lower price based on contractual terms previously established between Hospira and the end customer. Hospira records the initial sale to the wholesaler at wholesaler acquisition cost and at the same time, records a chargeback provision equal to the estimated amount the wholesaler will charge Hospira for the difference between the wholesaler acquisition cost and the estimated average end customer contract price. This process is necessary to enable Hospira to track actual sales to the end customer, which is essential information to run the business effectively. Hospira estimates chargebacks based upon historical experience, current contract prices, estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and claims processing lag time. Chargebacks are recorded as reductions to gross sales and trade receivables. Hospira regularly monitors the provision for chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes the actual chargebacks may differ from estimates. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, chargebacks of $64.2 million and $76.1 million, respectively, are recorded as a reduction in trade receivables. Settlement of chargebacks generally occurs between 30 and 40 days after the sale to wholesalers. Hospira primarily offers contract rebates to customers who either purchase directly from Hospira or from certain wholesalers who sell to their customers at prices determined under a contract between Hospira and the customer, or to government agencies, which administer various programs such as Medicaid. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases. Factors used in the rebate calculations relate to the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using actual contract terms and eligible purchases, Hospira estimates the amount of the rebate 36 due at the time of sale, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Hospira records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from three to 12 months after sale. Hospira regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to recorded reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, accrued rebates of $83.5 million and $74.1 million, respectively, are included in other accrued liabilities. The following table is an analysis of chargebacks and rebates for 2005 and 2004. (dollars in thousands) Wholesaler Chargebacks Rebates Balance at January 1, 2004 $ 72,224 $ 72,677 Provisions 726,870 126,656 Payments (722,998 ) (125,218 ) Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 76,096 $ 74,115 Provisions 628,338 130,951 Payments (640,250 ) (121,529 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 64,184 $ 83,537 A one percentage point discount in end customer contract prices as a percentage of sales would decrease net sales and income from operations by approximately $34 million. Pension and Post Retirement Benefits Hospira provides pension and post retirement medical and dental benefits to certain of its employees based both in and outside of the United States. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira employees participated in Abbott benefit plans that provided pension and post retirement benefits. For financial reporting purposes, Hospira develops long term assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, and healthcare cost trend rate. For these assumptions, management consults with actuaries, monitors plan provisions and demographics, and reviews public market data and general economic information. The discount rate is estimated using Moodys Aa corporate bond index, with consideration of differences in duration between the bonds in the index and Hospiras benefit liabilities. The expected rate of return for the pension plan represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return on plan assets is developed from the expected future return of each asset class, weighted by the expected allocation of pension assets to that asset class. Hospira considers historical performance for the types of assets in which the plans invest, independent market forecasts, and economic and capital market conditions. The healthcare cost trend rate for 2005 was 10%, declining to 5% by 2010. A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate, with other assumptions held constant, would increase/(decrease) the service and interest component of net post retirement medical and dental cost for the year ended December 31, 2005 by approximately $0.9/($0.7) million, and would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post retirement benefit obligation by approximately $9.9/($8.3) million. In 2004, Hospira changed the actuarial valuation measurement date for certain of the pension and post retirement plans from December 31 to November 30 to facilitate the planning and reporting process. The effect of this change did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Loss Contingencies Hospira accounts for contingent losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"). Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are 37 recorded for probable losses at managements best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information is known. Accordingly, if Hospira is initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. Income Taxes Hospiras provision for income taxes is based on taxable income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which Hospira operates. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Reserves are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Such reserves are based on managements judgment, utilizing internal and external tax advisors, and represent the best estimate as to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of changes to reserves. Each quarter, Hospira reviews the anticipated mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions and its reserves in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate expected to be in effect when the taxes are paid. Provision for income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided for on undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries when Hospira intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely to meet working capital and plant and equipment acquisition needs. See further discussion regarding the impact on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as a result of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Jobs Act") in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Prior to the spin off date, the provision for income taxes was calculated on a separate return basis. Under the tax sharing agreement executed in conjunction with the spin off, Abbott will indemnify Hospira for tax liabilities arising for periods prior to the spin off date. Therefore, no tax liabilities for the periods prior to the spin off are reflected in the consolidated financial statements. The separation and distribution agreement with Abbott allows for a one time adjustment to distributed deferred taxes based on actual tax return filings by Abbott which include Hospiras results through the spin off date. In addition, during 2005, Hospira performed an analysis of the appropriate state tax rate required based on Hospiras tax position as a stand alone taxpayer for the net deferred tax assets transferred from Abbott at the spin off date. As a result, Hospira has determined that its income taxes as a stand alone taxpayer should be provided at a higher effective rate than the rate used while part of Abbott. The final adjustment for these two items was made in 2005, which resulted in a $12.0 million increase to net deferred tax assets and additional paid in capital. Prior to Hospiras separation from Abbott in April 2004, Hospira had no income tax filing history as an independent company. Prospectively, Hospira has been providing for income taxes based on its post separation independent activities. These estimates might change in future periods as Hospira develops its own tax filing history and considers the results of tax authority examinations. Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales decreased (0.7)% in 2005 compared to 2004. Sales to third parties represented a (0.3)% decline in overall sales, driven by volume/product mix of (1.9%), which includes the unfavorable impact of the Berlex contract termination of (4.9)%; partially offset by the impact of exchange of 0.3% and price of 1.3%. Sales to Abbott had an unfavorable impact of (0.4)% on overall sales growth, driven by the exclusion of the bulk drug cost from the pricing for certain products post spin, partially offset by increased demand. Net sales increased 0.8% in 2004 compared to 2003. Sales to third parties represented 2.5% growth in overall sales, driven by volume/product mix of 2.6% and exchange of 0.8%, offset by price of (0.6)% and a gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of (0.3)%. Sales to Abbott had an unfavorable impact of (1.7)% on overall sales growth driven by the exclusion of the bulk drug cost for certain products subsequent to the spin off and decreased demand. 38  A comparison of product line sales is as follows: Percent Change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 U.S. Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals $ 845 $ 894 $ 858 (5.5 )% 4.3 % Medication Delivery Systems 796 783 744 1.7 % 5.2 % Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 179 179 158 0.0 % 13.3 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 105 120 182 (12.6 )% (34.3 )% Other 263 244 267 7.3 % (8.3 )% Total U.S. 2,188 2,220 2,209 (1.5 )% 0.5 % International Sales to Third Parties 375 365 374 2.7 % (2.5 )% Sales to Abbott Laboratories 64 60 41 7.0 % 46.6 % Total International Sales 439 425 415 3.3 % 2.4 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 2,627 $ 2,645 $ 2,624 (0.7 )% 0.8 % *Percent change computed based on unrounded numbers 2005 compared to 2004: Sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals declined, reflecting the termination of the Berlex imaging agents distribution agreement and the impact of increased generic competition on Hospiras Corlopam&reg; product. Sales of the remainder of the Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals product line were strong, driven by the impact of sales of products launched in 2004 and 2005 (ceftriaxone, deferoxamine and fluconazole), increased volumes of syringe products, certain anti infectives (which Hospira believes was partially driven by a competitors inability to supply product in the third and fourth quarters of 2005, and which is not expected to have significant favorable impact beyond 2005); and favorable price. The sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was driven by growth in medication management systems, partially offset by a decline in infusion therapy products. The growth in medication management systems was due to placements of Hospiras newer technology Plum A+&reg; pumps with Hospira MedNet&reg; coupled with a higher mix of sales type leases and outright sales versus operating leases. The decline in infusion therapy product sales was driven by the expiration of a contract under which Hospira sold product to a competitor, as well as lower pricing on sets, partially offset by other favorable volume/mix. Sales in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing were flat primarily due to favorable price and growth in demand for several existing supply agreements offset by the impact of the termination of certain contracts. The decrease in U.S. Sales to Abbott was due to the exclusion of the cost of the bulk drug subsequent to the spin off for certain products manufactured for Abbott, while 2004 (through April) included the cost of these bulk drugs. This reflects the post spin off manufacturing arrangement between Hospira and Abbott, under which Abbott transfers the bulk drug to Hospira for processing and Hospiras sales include only the value added portion plus a markup for these products. This reduction was partially offset by increased demand by Abbott for several of its products and by the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off. The increase in Other U.S. sales was primarily due to increased sales of products launched in 2004 and 2005 (ceftriaxone and deferoxamine) and certain anti infectives (which Hospira believes was 39 partially driven by a competitors inability to supply product in the third and fourth quarters of 2005, and which is not expected to have significant favorable impact beyond 2005) to alternate site healthcare customers, partially offset by a decline in sales of critical care products. Hospira expects increased competition to negatively impact its deferoxamine sales in the future. International Sales to Third Parties increased primarily due to favorable foreign exchange rates. International Sales to Abbott increased primarily due to volume related to an additional product manufactured for Abbott subsequent to the spin off, coupled with the impact of the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off, partially offset by reduced demand on other products. 2004 compared to 2003: The sales increase in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals was primarily due to increased sales of generic anti infective products, new products (fluconazole and deferoxamine), Berlex imaging agents, and Precedex&reg;, partially offset by a decline in Corlopam&reg; due to generic competition. The sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was driven by growth in both medication management systems and infusion therapy products. The growth in medication management was due to increased placements of Hospiras newer technology Plum A+&reg;, Gemstar&reg; and Lifecare PCA&reg;3 pumps. In addition, medication management sales in 2004 were favorably impacted by a change in the business model which resulted in some leases being accounted for as sales type leases compared to the previous business model under which most leases were accounted for as operating leases. Included in 2004 is an adjustment of $7 million related to 2003 resulting from the reclassification of some leases from operating to sales type leases. The increase in infusion therapy product sales was driven by higher volumes, partially offset by price. The sales increase in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing was primarily due to the impact of the sales ramp up related to supply agreements signed in 2003, as well as growth in demand for several existing supply agreements. The decrease in U.S. Sales to Abbott was primarily due to the exclusion of the cost of the bulk drug subsequent to the spin off for certain products manufactured for Abbott, while 2003 included the cost of these bulk drugs for the full year. This reflects the post spin off manufacturing arrangement between Hospira and Abbott under which Abbott transfers the bulk drug to Hospira for processing and Hospiras sales include only the value added portion, plus a markup for these products. In addition, reduced demand by Abbott for several of its products contributed to the decline in sales. These reductions were partially offset by the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off. Other U.S. sales primarily include sales to alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, and sales of critical care products. The decline in Other U.S. sales is primarily due to 2003 reflecting the gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights as well as the related loss of paclitaxel sales resulting from the divestiture of the product rights; a volume decline in critical care products, and the wind down of the home infusion product line in 2003, partially offset by increased sales to alternate site customers and 2003 sales being negatively impacted by a product recall. International Sales to Third Parties declined due to reduced emphasis on a low margin product and lower sales in critical care, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange rates. International Sales to Abbott increased in 2004 primarily due to volume related to an additional product manufactured for Abbott subsequent to the spin off, coupled with the impact of the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off. 40 Gross Profit Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Gross profit $ 849.1 $ 786.6 $ 701.1 7.9 % 12.2 % As a percent of sales 32.3 % 29.7 % 26.7 % 2005 compared to 2004: The increase in gross profit margin in 2005 was primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 2.6%, which includes the impact of Berlex of 1.2%; reduced benefit costs of 0.8% as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans in 2004, price of 0.9%, and other changes of 0.1%. These increases were offset by charges of (0.7)% resulting from the asset impairment and obligations assumed related to the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility to ICU and charges of (1.1)% resulting from the asset impairments related to the Ashland, Ohio and Montreal, Canada facilities and costs relating to the planned Donegal, Ireland plant shutdown. 2004 compared to 2003: The increase in gross profit margin in 2004 was primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 1.4%, lower freight and distribution costs of 0.7%, reduced benefit costs of 0.5% as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans in 2004, lower project expense of 0.7%, the impact of foreign exchange of 0.1%, the impact in 2003 of a product recall of 0.5% and the markup on sales to Abbott in 2004 resulting in a margin increase of 1.3%, compared to 2003 when sales were recorded at cost. These increases were offset by slightly lower prices of (0.4)%, additional depreciation of (0.3)% resulting from a revision in the estimated useful life for certain electronic drug delivery pumps placed with customers, manufacturing cost increases in 2004 of (1.0)% driven by inflation and increased facility maintenance costs, offset by productivity improvements, a gain on sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of (0.3)% and other changes of (0.2)%. Research and Development Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Research and development expense $ 138.8 $ 119.6 $ 109.7 16.1 % 9.0 % As a percent of sales 5.3 % 4.5 % 4.2 % 2005 compared to 2004: The increase in research and development expenses in 2005 was primarily due to spending on new product development related to integrated software for drug delivery devices that help prevent medication errors, a next generation drug delivery device, new compounds added to Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline and spending for a Phase IV safety study on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;, as a condition of marketing the product. These increases were partially offset by reduced benefit costs as a result of the changes in benefit plans in 2004. 2004 compared to 2003: The increase in research and development expenses in 2004 was due to spending associated with new product development primarily related to the development of a next generation drug delivery device, software systems and new compounds being added to Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline. 41 Spending in 2004 also includes a Phase IV safety study on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;, as a condition of marketing the product. These increases were partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans and higher spending in 2003 related to external contracted services for specific compliance projects. Selling, General and Administrative Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Selling, general and administrative expense $ 373.6 $ 304.0 $ 231.0 22.9 % 31.6 % As a percent of sales 14.2 % 11.5 % 8.8 % 2005 compared to 2004: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2005 primarily due to additional costs related to becoming a separate stand alone public company. These costs include the establishment of corporate functions, information technology and costs relating to establishing Hospiras business infrastructure outside the United States. A substantial portion of the increase relates to costs associated with the implementation of SAP as Hospiras global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The increase in costs was partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of changes in benefit plans in 2004. Hospiras selling, general and administrative expenses for 2005 reflect the first full year of ongoing, incremental expenses associated with being a separate stand alone company. 2004 compared to 2003: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2004 primarily due to additional costs related to becoming a separate stand alone public company. These costs include the establishment of corporate functions, information technology and costs relating to establishing Hospiras business infrastructure outside the United States. The increase in costs was partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of changes in certain post retirement benefit plans. Hospiras selling, general and administrative expenses for 2004 reflect a partial year of ongoing, incremental expenses associated with being a separate stand alone company. Curtailment of Post Retirement Medical and Dental Benefits In the second quarter of 2004, Hospira announced a series of benefit plan changes, which included the discontinuation of the U.S. non union post retirement medical and dental plan. The effect of the discontinuation of the post retirement medical and dental plan was a non cash pre tax benefit of $64.6 million resulting from the reversal of the related liability. Interest Expense Prior to the spin off, Hospira did not have any debt. In connection with the spin off, Hospira incurred $700 million principal amount of debt, and, as a result, Hospira incurred interest expense of $28.3 million in 2005 and $18.8 million in 2004. Interest was primarily paid on the senior unsecured notes, which were issued to repay money borrowed under the senior unsecured credit facility that Hospira entered into in connection with the spin off. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, as well as Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, for further information regarding Hospiras debt and credit facilities. 42  Other (Income) Expense, Net Other income and expense for 2005, 2004 and 2003 primarily includes amounts relating to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest income, losses related to equity method investments, and other items. Foreign exchange (gains) for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $(0.1) million, $(0.3) million and $(1.8) million, respectively. Interest income for 2005 was $15.1 million compared to $2.4 million in 2004. Prior to the spin off, Hospira did not hold cash. Losses related to equity investments include amounts allocated from Abbott prior to the spin off for 2004 and 2003 of $1.3 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rates were 26.8% in 2005, 26.7% in 2004 and 27.5% in 2003. Included in 2005 is tax of $9.1 million related to the repatriation of foreign earnings of $175 million under the Jobs Act. Excluding the effect of the repatriation, the 2005 effective tax rate was 24.0%. The effective tax rate for 2004 included the impact of a significant unusual item, the curtailment of the post retirement medical and dental plan noted above. Excluding the effect of the curtailment benefit, the 2004 effective tax rate was 24.7%. The decreases in the effective tax rates in 2005 and 2004 were due primarily to increased income generated in foreign jurisdictions, which have lower tax rates than the United States. The effective tax rates are less than the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate principally due to the benefit of tax exemptions, of varying durations, in certain jurisdictions outside the United States. Taxes on income are determined on a separate return basis through April 30, 2004, at which time Hospira became a separate stand alone taxpayer. Abbott has retained responsibility for all tax liabilities prior to the spin off date. Liquidity and Capital Resources Summary of Sources and (Uses) of Cash Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Operating activities $ 571.1 $ 387.0 $ 368.1 Investing activities (184.4 ) (301.3 ) (193.4 ) Financing activities 8.6 40.6 (174.8 ) Operating Activities Net Cash From Operating Activities continues to be Hospiras primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Capital resources include cash on hand and borrowing availability under Hospiras $375 million credit facility. In 2005, operating activities provided net cash of $571.1 million, primarily driven by net income of $235.6 million, non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $156.3 million, a non cash impairment charge of $13.1 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $166.1 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of an increase in accruals for employee incentive programs and other accruals, including those resulting from obligations assumed related to the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility, the planned closure of the Donegal, Ireland plant, an increase in accrued rebates, an increase in accounts payable, and an increase in income taxes payable. In 2004, operating activities provided net cash of $387.0 million, primarily driven by net income of $301.6 million and non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $145.5 million, offset by the non cash curtailment benefit of $40.4 million, net of tax, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $19.7 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consists principally of an increase in trade receivables generated primarily by increases in third party sales, increased contributions to 43 pension plans, net of additional provisions, offset by a decrease in inventory and an increase in current liabilities. Cash inflows from increases in current liabilities were generated by increases in accruals related to the build up of infrastructure to operate as a stand alone company, as well as increases in benefit and payroll related accruals, and accrued interest. Inventory decreased from 2003 levels, which were higher than the prior year primarily to meet sales initiatives in future periods, to better match inventory levels with customer demand, and due to a short term increase in the manufacturing process. Investing Activities In 2005, Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $184.4 million includes capital expenditures of $256.1 million for upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development and administrative support facilities and information technology systems. In addition, investing activities include the use of cash of $23.6 million for the acquisition of Physiometrix and purchases of certain intangibles and other investments of $9.0 million. These are offset by $72.4 million in proceeds from the sales of marketable debt securities and $31.8 million in proceeds from the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility and related assets. Hospiras investing activities in 2004 consisted primarily of capital expenditures necessary to expand and upgrade its manufacturing capabilities and infrastructure, and purchases of marketable securities. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities included payments of $228.9 million in 2004, primarily related to upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development and administrative support facilities, and information technology systems. Prior to the spin off, Hospira remitted cash generated primarily from operations to Abbott. Subsequent to the spin off, Hospira has invested cash, depending on working capital requirements, in marketable securities. Financing Activities Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities in 2005 consisted primarily of proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $118.8 million and other borrowing activities, offset by payments to Abbott for international net assets of $116.7 million. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities in 2004 consisted primarily of net transactions with Abbott previous to and related to the spin off, receipt of the payment from Abbott related to the pension funding requirements under the Employee Benefits Agreement, and the issuance and payment of short term and long term debt, net of discount and financing fees. Operational transactions with Abbott after the spin off are included in operating cash flows. Prior to the spin off, Hospira, as part of Abbott, did not hold cash, and the related transactions with Abbott were reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows in the financing section as "Net transactions with Abbott Laboratories." Subsequent to the spin off, Hospira retains cash and cash equivalents, which primarily include demand deposits with banks or other financial institutions. Summary of Financial Position Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 520.6 $ 127.7 $ Marketable securities 72.4 Working capital 964.9 662.1 681.7 Short term borrowings and long term debt 697.9 698.8 Due to Abbott, net (Includes current and long term) 79.1 189.1 44 Working Capital The increase in working capital in 2005 was primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents and a decrease in the current portion of "Due to Abbott, Net," which is principally related to the liability for the international net assets to be transferred from Abbott. This is offset by a decrease in marketable securities, increase in liabilities related to accruals for employee incentive programs and other accruals, primarily obligations related to the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility, the closure of the Donegal, Ireland plant and an increase in income taxes payable. The decrease in working capital in 2004 was primarily due to the current portion of "Due to Abbott, Net," which is principally related to the liability for the international net assets to be transferred from Abbott, and decreases in inventory, offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, trade receivables, and current deferred income taxes. The increase in cash is due primarily to eight months of cash flow from operations being retained by Hospira that prior to the spin off would have been remitted to Abbott. Hospira believes that its current capital resources, including cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash it generates from operations and funds available from its revolving credit facility will be sufficient to finance its operations, including product development, transition costs, international net asset transfers and capital expenditures, for the foreseeable future. Debt and Capital Hospira has a five year $375 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which it entered into on December 16, 2005 (the "Revolver"), and which is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver replaced Hospiras prior revolving credit agreement, which was entered into on April 30, 2004 and amended on April 29, 2005. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. Borrowings under the Revolver bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, plus a utilization fee if borrowings under the Revolver exceed 50% of the aggregate amount of committed loans. Hospira is also required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate amount of committed loans. The annual rates for the LIBOR margin, the utilization fee and the facility fee are currently 0.45%, 0.075% and 0.10%, respectively, and are subject to increase or decrease if there is a change in Hospiras current credit rating of BBB by Standard & Poors. The amount of available borrowings may be increased to a maximum of $500 million, and the term may be increased for up to two additional years, under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had no amounts borrowed or otherwise outstanding under the Revolver. In March 2005, Hospira issued economic development promissory notes, the proceeds of which were used for a distribution facility expansion. The $1.75 million ten year notes bear a fixed rate of interest of 2%, with principal and interest due monthly. In January 2005, Hospira entered into interest rate swap transactions whereby the $300 million five year senior unsecured notes due in June 2009 were effectively converted from fixed to floating rate debt. At December 31, 2005, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(8.7) million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount that Hospira would have to pay to counterparties. Hospira has entered into various loan agreements related to the legal transfer of certain international operations from Abbott. These borrowings are made by Hospiras foreign affiliates in their local currency and are used to optimize the capital structure. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had $5.9 million of such loans outstanding. On June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an offering of a $700 million aggregate principal amount of notes consisting of $300 million principal amount of five year senior unsecured notes and $400 million 45 principal amount of ten year senior unsecured notes. The $300 million five year notes bear interest at a rate of 4.95% per annum and mature on June 15, 2009, and the $400 million ten year notes bear interest at a rate of 5.90% per annum and mature on June 15, 2014. The proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, were used to repay all amounts outstanding under the short term senior unsecured credit facility. On April 28, 2004, Abbott and Hospira entered into a $700 million, short term senior unsecured credit facility ("Senior Facility"). The proceeds of the Senior Facility borrowing were retained by Abbott. On the spin off date, Abbott was relieved of all obligations under the Senior Facility and Hospira became solely responsible for repayment of the principal and for payment of interest and fees on this debt. On June 15, 2004, all amounts under the Senior Facility were repaid with proceeds from the senior unsecured notes, together with cash on hand. The Revolver and the Senior Unsecured Notes contain, among other provisions, covenants with which Hospira must comply while they are in force. The covenants limit Hospiras ability to allow liens on its properties or assets, or merge or consolidate with other entities. Under the amended Revolver, among other things, Hospira must also comply with certain financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira was in compliance with all covenants under the amended Revolver and the Senior Unsecured Notes. In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. These operations and assets are used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira is obligated to pay Abbott for these operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, over a two year period after the spin off date as Hospira establishes its business infrastructure outside the United States and obtains regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The amount payable is equal to the net book value of those assets and liabilities at the time of such transfer. Accordingly, the net book value will be affected by normal operations, exchange rates and other business factors. Hospira pays Abbott interest, at local prevailing short term rates, in connection with Hospiras use of certain of these assets during that period. As of December 31, 2005, the net book value of the assets and liabilities that had not yet transferred was $130.5 million. The net book value of the net assets primarily consists of trade receivables of $43.6 million, inventory of $55.2 million, equipment of $31.2 million and other, net of $0.5 million. Each amount has been included in the corresponding balance sheet line item. The amount due to Abbott for the net book value of assets and liabilities is offset by $49.1 million for items that are due from Abbott related to the international business. These items include amounts due for operating profits and inventory purchases of Hospira products to support the international business. All amounts outstanding between Hospira and Abbott are included in Due to Abbott, Net on the balance sheet. In 2005, the net assets of 36 countries were legally transferred from Abbott. The total amounts paid in 2005 were $116.7 million. The net assets of the remaining countries are expected to be transferred to Hospira in the first half of 2006. 46 Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes Hospiras estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (dollars in millions): Payment Due by Period Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter Long term debt and interest payments $ 960.7 $ 41.1 $ 81.1 $ 355.0 $ 483.5 Lease obligations 157.9 23.5 39.1 34.7 60.6 Purchase commitments(1) 423.0 407.1 15.6 0.3 Other long term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet(2) 22.3 22.3 Amounts due to Abbott for acquisition of certain international net assets(3) 130.5 130.5 Total $ 1,694.4 $ 602.2 $ 158.1 $ 390.0 $ 544.1 (1)Purchase commitments consist primarily of inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements. Contractual capital commitments are also included here, but these commitments represent only a portion of the expected capital spending in 2006 and beyond. (2)Excludes approximately $143.5 million of other long term liabilities related primarily to post retirement benefit obligations. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K regarding benefit payments for post retirement obligations. Hospira does not expect to contribute to its main U.S. pension plan in 2006. (3)The amount due to Abbott for the acquisition of certain international net assets excludes an offsetting amount of $49.1 million for items that are due from Abbott related to the international business. These include amounts due for operating profits and inventory purchases of Hospira products to support the international business. Hospiras commercial commitments as of December 31, 2005, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, primarily consist of non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had $8.9 million of outstanding letters of credit, all with expirations in 2006. No amounts have been drawn on these letters of credit. Hospira has no material exposures to off balance sheet arrangements, no special purpose entities, and no activities that include non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs." This statement clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facilities expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material. This statement requires that those items be recognized as current period expenses. In addition, the statement requires that allocation of fixed overhead to the cost of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. For Hospira, this statement is effective for inventory costs incurred after December 31, 2005. Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material effect on Hospiras financial position or results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, which requires, among other changes, that the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized as compensation cost over 47 the vesting period based on the fair value of the instrument on the date of grant. SFAS No. 123R revises SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), which previously allowed pro forma disclosure of certain share based compensation expense. Further, SFAS No. 123R supercedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," which previously allowed the intrinsic value method of accounting for stock options. Since Hospira currently accounts for share based payments using the intrinsic value method, Hospiras results of operations have not included the recognition of compensation expense. Had Hospira applied the fair value criteria established in SFAS No. 123R to previous stock option grants, the impact to the results of operations would have approximated the pro forma expense under SFAS No. 123, which is disclosed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. On April 14, 2005, the SEC adopted a rule that amended the compliance date of SFAS No. 123R to require implementation no later than the beginning of the first fiscal year which begins after June 15, 2005 (January 1, 2006 for Hospira). The effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R on diluted earnings per share in future periods is dependent on the number of options granted in the future, the terms of those awards and their fair values. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections" ("SFAS No. 154"), which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle. The statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements, or the latest practicable date, as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle. Previous rules generally required that changes in accounting principles were recognized by including the cumulative effect of the change in net income in the period of change. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material effect on Hospiras financial position or results of operations. Legislative Issues Hospiras primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulation. Hospira expects debate to continue at both the federal and state levels over the availability, method of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services. If additional legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing prices, or reducing the rate of price increases, for medical products and services. International operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Hospira or the healthcare industry in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future.  Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instrument and Risk Management Hospira operates globally, and earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Upon consideration of management objectives, costs and opportunities, Hospira uses derivative instruments, including foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to manage these risks. Hospira enters into derivative instrument contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions to limit the amount of credit exposure to nonperformance by any one institution. Hospira does not utilize derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras operations are exposed to currency exchange rate risk, which is mitigated by Hospiras use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts ("forward contracts"). The objective in managing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash 48 flows associated with these changes. Currency exposures include third party trade payables and receivables, and intercompany loans where the asset or liability is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. Forward contract gains and losses on these exposures substantially offset the remeasurement of the hedged asset or liability. In addition, currency exposures exist for certain subsidiaries for anticipated intercompany purchases, firm commitments, and third party forecasted transactions expected to be denominated in a foreign currency due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Forward contract gains and losses for these exposures are included in other income during the term of the forward contract, as they are not formally designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Net forward contract expense and the carrying value and fair value of forward contracts were not significant in 2005 and 2004. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira participated in Abbotts management of these same foreign currency exposures. In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. These operations and assets are used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira is obligated to pay Abbott for these operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, from Abbott over a two year period after the spin off date as Hospira establishes its business infrastructure outside the United States and obtains regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The amount payable is equal to the net book value of those assets and liabilities at the time of such transfer. Accordingly, the net book value is affected by normal operations, exchange rates and other business factors. Exchange rate gains and losses on the net asset exposures are substantially offset by the remeasurement of a portion of the Due to Abbott liability, both of which are denominated in the foreign currency of the applicable country. Upon transfer, the net assets will be maintained in the functional currency of the operating country whereby exchange rate changes affecting the net assets will be included as cumulative translation adjustments in equity. Hospira does not currently intend to hedge the net investment exposure. Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras primary interest rate exposures relate to cash and cash equivalents, and fixed and variable rate debt. The objective in managing exposure to changes in interest rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Hospiras investment portfolio of $532.5 million at December 31, 2005 consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity securities, which are classified as "available for sale." For equity securities, any gains or losses will not be recognized in Hospiras statements of income until the investment is sold or if there is a reduction in fair value that is determined to be an other than temporary impairment. The carrying value of the investment portfolio approximates fair market value at December 31, 2005 and the value at maturity, as the majority of investments consist of securities with maturities of less than three months. Because Hospiras investments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates, based on average cash and cash equivalents during the year, would increase/(decrease) interest income by approximately $3.2 million. In conjunction with the spin off from Abbott, on June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an underwritten offering of a consolidated $700 million aggregate principal amount consisting of $300 million five year senior unsecured notes and $400 million ten year senior unsecured notes both of which bear a fixed rate of interest. In addition, Hospiras new credit facility, entered into on December 16, 2005, consists of a revolving credit facility of $375 million ("Revolver") that is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable 49 interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had no amounts outstanding under the Revolver. Hospira has entered into various loan agreements related to the legal transfer of certain international operations from Abbott. These borrowings are made by Hospiras foreign affiliates in their local currency and are used to optimize the capital structure. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had $5.9 million of such loans outstanding. In January 2005, Hospira entered into interest rate swap transactions whereby the $300 million five year senior unsecured notes due in June 2009 were effectively converted from fixed to floating rate debt. Hospira records the interest rate swap contracts at fair value and offsets the carrying amount of the fixed rate debt by the same amount. At December 31, 2005, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(8.7) million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount that Hospira would have to pay to counterparties. As a result of converting from fixed to floating rate debt, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $3.0 million. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above, as well as Notes 5 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K, for further information. 50   
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company that is focused on products that improve the productivity, safety and efficacy of patient care in the acute care setting. Hospira is a leader in the development, manufacture and marketing of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication delivery systems that deliver drugs and intravenous (I.V.) fluids. Hospira is also a leading provider of contract manufacturing services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities. Transition from Abbott Hospira became a separate public company on April 30, 2004, when it was spun off from Abbott. References to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of Hospira prior to the spin off are generally intended to refer to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of the business as it was conducted as part of Abbott prior to the spin off. Hospiras consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 reflect Hospiras operations as a separate, stand alone entity subsequent to the spin off, combined with the historical operations of Hospira when it operated as part of Abbott prior to the spin off. The financial information in the financial statements included in this annual report does not include all the expenses that would have been incurred, nor does it reflect Hospiras results of operations, financial position and cash flows, had Hospira been a stand alone company for all of the periods presented. While Hospira was a part of Abbott, Hospira relied on Abbotts corporate infrastructure and administrative functions. Also as part of Abbott, Hospira was required to compete with Abbotts other major businesses for product development funds and other resources. The level of resources allocated to Hospira affected its research and development project funding, manufacturing cost structure, and marketing, promotion and selling activities. The spin off enabled Hospira to focus exclusively on its business and use its own resources to invest in opportunities targeted to its own markets. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of longer term sales growth. During the 24 month period after the spin off, Hospira must build its own corporate and international infrastructure. Costs relating to these activities have been funded, and are expected to continue to be funded, through its operating cash flow. Hospira has incurred increased expenses on an ongoing basis, including expenses relating to establishing and operating independent corporate functions, operating, maintaining and supporting information technology systems, and operating internationally on a stand alone basis. Hospira has experienced higher costs related to information technology support associated with the implementation of SAP as Hospiras global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. Hospira expects these higher levels of support costs to continue through 2006. It has also incurred expenses on a non recurring, transitional basis, including expenses relating to the establishment of new facilities, the build out of independent information technology systems, and product registration and re labeling. These transitional costs are estimated to total approximately $100 million (pre tax) over the 24 month period subsequent to the spin off. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had incurred $78.4 million of these costs. The transitional and ongoing costs also contributed to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses from 11.5% of net sales in 2004 to 14.2% of net sales in 2005. Hospira has incurred costs in connection with the transfer of legal title of assets outside the United States from Abbott to Hospira, and will continue to incur these costs through mid 2006. Hospira views the ability to operate independently outside the United States as a longer term opportunity to increase its sales and profitability. Under transition arrangements with Abbott, described 32 under "Item 1. Business Arrangements with Abbott," the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States that are legally owned by Abbott, but used by Hospira in its business, are required to be completed over the two year transition period. In connection with those transfers, Hospira is obligated to pay Abbott the net book value of such net assets at the time of transfer. As of December 31, 2005, the net book value of the net assets remaining to be transferred was $130.5 million. Pending the legal transfer to Hospira, these operations and assets are being used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by the operations and assets. Hospira and Abbott entered into various manufacture and supply agreements prior to the spin off under which Hospira sells certain products that it manufactured and supplied to Abbott prior to the spin off. These agreements have an initial two year term (scheduled to expire in April 2006) and may be extended by Abbott for an additional two year term under substantially similar contractual provisions. Some of these agreements will be terminated at the end of the initial two year period, and Hospira expects its sales to Abbott to decline substantially during 2006. Hospiras transition activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of incurring higher than estimated transition related and ongoing costs associated with operating independently, difficulties relating to implementing information technology systems and risks related to transitioning the international operations. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Hospiras Transition from Abbott and the Spin Off." Cost Reduction Activities As part of its strategy to improve margins and cash flows, Hospira has taken a number of actions in an effort to reduce operating costs and optimize its manufacturing capabilities and capacity. Expenditures relating to these activities are not included in the transition activities discussed above. In May 2005, in order to reduce its costs to produce critical care products, Hospira completed a strategic manufacturing, commercialization and development agreement with ICU and sold its Salt Lake City manufacturing facility and related equipment and inventory to ICU. In connection with these transactions, during 2005, Hospira recorded an impairment charge of $2.4 million and a loss of $13.4 million, which is Hospiras best estimate of the cost of certain obligations that Hospira is required to reimburse to ICU over a 24 month period after closing. Both the impairment and the loss related to obligations assumed were recorded in cost of products sold. For further details regarding the financial impact of these transactions, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In August 2005, Hospira announced plans to close its medical device manufacturing plant in Donegal, Ireland by mid 2007. Products produced at the Donegal plant are expected to move to Hospira facilities primarily in Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic, which have available manufacturing capacity to absorb the transfers. Hospira expects to incur $30 million to $40 million of pre tax charges relating to the plant closure. During 2005, Hospira incurred $8.5 million of these charges, which is reported in cost of products sold. The costs consist primarily of severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the building and certain equipment, and other exit costs. Hospira expects to generate cost savings relating to this activity beginning in 2007. For further details regarding the financial impact of this plant closure, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In February 2006, Hospira announced plans to close its plants in Ashland, Ohio and Montreal, Canada over 18 to 28 months, respectively, and also provided a timeline for phasing out production at a facility in Abbott Laboratories North Chicago, Illinois campus, where it has leased space from its former parent company since the spin off in April 2004. Hospira intends to transition out of this facility in advance of the leases expiration in 2014, with a majority of the product transfers occurring over the next four years. Hospira will transfer production of the primary products from these facilities to other 33 Hospira facilities and will outsource certain product components to third party suppliers. The aggregate charges that Hospira will incur related to the plant closings are expected to be in the range of approximately $95 million to $110 million on a pre tax basis, of which approximately $45 million to $55 million are expected to be reported as restructuring charges. The restructuring costs consist primarily of costs related to severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the buildings and certain equipment, and other exit costs. The remaining charges relate to the relocation of production. For further details regarding the financial impact of this plant closure, see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. These cost reduction activities involve risks and uncertainties as relocating or outsourcing production is a complex process. Hospira may incur more charges than estimated and may not realize the expected cost savings on its planned time frame or at all. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Hospiras Business and Industry Hospiras cost reduction activities have resulted in significant charges. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended cost savings." Other Factors Manufacturing and Quality. Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell high quality, low cost products in compliance with regulatory requirements is an important factor to the success of its business. Hospira must comply with detailed regulations governing the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of its products, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, and must incur expense, time and effort to ensure compliance with the complex regulations. Hospira must also maintain continuity of supply of raw materials that comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Its business is subject to risks of manufacturing and supply interruptions, and product quality issues, which can lead to product recalls or field activities. Hospira did not experience significant manufacturing or raw material supply interruptions during 2005. However, in 2005, Hospira experienced higher raw material, freight and utilities costs as a result of rising oil and gas prices. If Hospira is unable to recover these higher costs through improved manufacturing performance or price increases, Hospiras margins will be adversely affected. Hospira has recalled, and or conducted field alerts relating to, certain of its products from time to time. While these activities can lead to costs to repair or replace affected products and temporary interruptions in product sales, and can impact reported results of operations in the applicable period, Hospira does not believe that these activities had a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations during 2005. Product Development. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of sales growth over the longer term. New products and technologies were factors in driving higher gross profit during 2005. To successfully execute its product development strategy, Hospira must continue to develop cost competitive products and enhancements that satisfy customer needs, introduce products on a timely basis and successfully market those products. As a part of this strategy, Hospira may also need to identify, and successfully manage, strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements. During 2006, Hospira expects to generate sales growth, in part by launching 11 new specialty injectable pharmaceutical products, representing seven new compounds, and by offering newer technology drug delivery pumps. Hospiras ability to execute this strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors," including the ability to timely launch new products and enhancements, the ability to successfully manage collaborative arrangements, actions of competitors and acceptance by customers. GPO Contracts. The ability to maintain GPO contracts is an important factor for Hospira to generate sales. Approximately 50% of Hospiras net sales are made under these contracts. Typically, these contracts cover a portion of Hospiras product lines, specify the prices for Hospiras products, and 34 are effective for three to five years. Generally, the contracts are extended or competitively bid prior to contract expiration. Hospira has four GPO pharmacy contracts to be renewed or renegotiated during 2006. If Hospira is unable to renew or renegotiate any significant GPO contracts, its ability to sell products and its profitability may be harmed. Arrangements with Drug Wholesalers. A significant portion of Hospiras generic injectable pharmaceuticals are distributed to end user customers through drug wholesalers. Hospira believes that it has valid contractual relationships with all of its major drug wholesalers, and, in fact, renewed its relationship with one drug wholesaler at the end of 2005. In general, the drug wholesalers are attempting to increase their revenues by implementing a fee for service model for their distribution of pharmaceutical products that would increase fees higher than the levels specified in the existing contracts. Hospira denies that it owes any distribution fees in excess of those set forth in its contracts with the drug wholesalers. One drug wholesaler continues to unilaterally invoice Hospira for higher fees that it alleges are due for the distribution of Hospiras generic injectable pharmaceutical products. Hospira has not recorded any provision for these invoices. Hospira believes that it has adequate arrangements in place to distribute its products and that this matter is not expected to have a material adverse effect on its business or prospects. Share Repurchase. In February 2006, Hospiras board of directors approved a $400 million share repurchase program. Hospira expects to fund any repurchases from operating cash flow. The timing and amount of any repurchases will depend on various factors, including alternative uses of cash, and business and market conditions. The repurchase of shares commenced in early March 2006. Berlex Agreement. During the first half 2005, the agreement under which Hospira distributed Berlex imaging agents was terminated. As a result, during 2006, Hospiras sales are expected to be negatively impacted by $67 million, when compared to 2005. As the Berlex agreement involved relatively low margin products, the absence of profits related to these sales is expected to improve gross margin in 2006, when compared to 2005. Stock Option Expenses. Beginning in 2006, expenses relating to the issuance of employee stock options or other share based payments issued to Hospiras employees will be reflected in Hospiras results of operations. The amount of expense will depend on the number of options (or other share based awards) granted in the future, the terms of those awards and their fair values. For further information, see the information regarding the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123R, "Share Based Payment," ("SFAS No. 123R"), under "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" in this Item 7. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are those policies that require management to make the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive to result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Hospira believes its most critical accounting policies are those described below. For a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Hospira recognizes revenues from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed and determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. For other than certain drug delivery pumps and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing, product revenue is recognized when products are delivered and title passes to customers. 35 Placements of drug delivery pumps with customers typically fall under one of three types of arrangements: outright sales of the drug delivery pump to the customer; placements under lease arrangements; and placements under contracts that include associated disposable set purchases. For placements under lease agreements, certain arrangements for which Hospiras warranty obligation extends through the entire lease term are accounted for as operating leases. For these, Hospira recognizes revenue over the lease term, which averages five years. For leases under which Hospiras warranty obligation is limited to approximately one year, Hospira accounts for these as sales type leases, under which the discounted sales value of the drug delivery pump is recorded as revenue upon placement with the customer. For contracts with multiple deliverables, total revenue is divided among the separate units of accounting (deliverables) based on their relative fair value and is recognized for each deliverable in accordance with the applicable revenue recognition criteria. In instances when fair value exists only for undelivered elements, the residual method is used to allocate total consideration. Injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing involves filling customers active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API") into delivery systems. Under these arrangements, customers API is often consigned to Hospira and revenue is recorded for the materials and labor provided by Hospira, plus a profit, upon shipment to the customer. In addition, Hospira records sales of product rights as revenue upon disposition of the rights. Sales of product rights have not been significant. A large part of Hospiras sales are through wholesalers and to GPO member hospitals. These sales typically include provisions for chargebacks, rebates and other adjustments which are provided for as a reduction in gross sales at the time the related sales are recorded. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amounts of the reduction in gross sales. The most significant provisions are chargebacks and rebates, which are described in the following paragraphs. Chargebacks and Rebates The provision for chargebacks is a significant and complex estimate used to determine the recognition of revenue. Hospira sells products to end customers either directly or through wholesalers who then resell the products to end customers. For products sold through wholesalers, Hospira charges the wholesaler a predetermined price, known as wholesaler acquisition cost, which is typically higher than the amount contracted with the end customer. Wholesalers then sell to the end customer at the lower price based on contractual terms previously established between Hospira and the end customer. Hospira records the initial sale to the wholesaler at wholesaler acquisition cost and at the same time, records a chargeback provision equal to the estimated amount the wholesaler will charge Hospira for the difference between the wholesaler acquisition cost and the estimated average end customer contract price. This process is necessary to enable Hospira to track actual sales to the end customer, which is essential information to run the business effectively. Hospira estimates chargebacks based upon historical experience, current contract prices, estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and claims processing lag time. Chargebacks are recorded as reductions to gross sales and trade receivables. Hospira regularly monitors the provision for chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes the actual chargebacks may differ from estimates. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, chargebacks of $64.2 million and $76.1 million, respectively, are recorded as a reduction in trade receivables. Settlement of chargebacks generally occurs between 30 and 40 days after the sale to wholesalers. Hospira primarily offers contract rebates to customers who either purchase directly from Hospira or from certain wholesalers who sell to their customers at prices determined under a contract between Hospira and the customer, or to government agencies, which administer various programs such as Medicaid. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases. Factors used in the rebate calculations relate to the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using actual contract terms and eligible purchases, Hospira estimates the amount of the rebate 36 due at the time of sale, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Hospira records its sale of the product. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from three to 12 months after sale. Hospira regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to recorded reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, accrued rebates of $83.5 million and $74.1 million, respectively, are included in other accrued liabilities. The following table is an analysis of chargebacks and rebates for 2005 and 2004. (dollars in thousands) Wholesaler Chargebacks Rebates Balance at January 1, 2004 $ 72,224 $ 72,677 Provisions 726,870 126,656 Payments (722,998 ) (125,218 ) Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 76,096 $ 74,115 Provisions 628,338 130,951 Payments (640,250 ) (121,529 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 64,184 $ 83,537 A one percentage point discount in end customer contract prices as a percentage of sales would decrease net sales and income from operations by approximately $34 million. Pension and Post Retirement Benefits Hospira provides pension and post retirement medical and dental benefits to certain of its employees based both in and outside of the United States. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira employees participated in Abbott benefit plans that provided pension and post retirement benefits. For financial reporting purposes, Hospira develops long term assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, and healthcare cost trend rate. For these assumptions, management consults with actuaries, monitors plan provisions and demographics, and reviews public market data and general economic information. The discount rate is estimated using Moodys Aa corporate bond index, with consideration of differences in duration between the bonds in the index and Hospiras benefit liabilities. The expected rate of return for the pension plan represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return on plan assets is developed from the expected future return of each asset class, weighted by the expected allocation of pension assets to that asset class. Hospira considers historical performance for the types of assets in which the plans invest, independent market forecasts, and economic and capital market conditions. The healthcare cost trend rate for 2005 was 10%, declining to 5% by 2010. A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate, with other assumptions held constant, would increase/(decrease) the service and interest component of net post retirement medical and dental cost for the year ended December 31, 2005 by approximately $0.9/($0.7) million, and would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post retirement benefit obligation by approximately $9.9/($8.3) million. In 2004, Hospira changed the actuarial valuation measurement date for certain of the pension and post retirement plans from December 31 to November 30 to facilitate the planning and reporting process. The effect of this change did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Loss Contingencies Hospira accounts for contingent losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"). Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are 37 recorded for probable losses at managements best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information is known. Accordingly, if Hospira is initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. Income Taxes Hospiras provision for income taxes is based on taxable income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which Hospira operates. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Reserves are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Such reserves are based on managements judgment, utilizing internal and external tax advisors, and represent the best estimate as to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of changes to reserves. Each quarter, Hospira reviews the anticipated mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions and its reserves in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate expected to be in effect when the taxes are paid. Provision for income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided for on undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries when Hospira intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely to meet working capital and plant and equipment acquisition needs. See further discussion regarding the impact on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as a result of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Jobs Act") in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Prior to the spin off date, the provision for income taxes was calculated on a separate return basis. Under the tax sharing agreement executed in conjunction with the spin off, Abbott will indemnify Hospira for tax liabilities arising for periods prior to the spin off date. Therefore, no tax liabilities for the periods prior to the spin off are reflected in the consolidated financial statements. The separation and distribution agreement with Abbott allows for a one time adjustment to distributed deferred taxes based on actual tax return filings by Abbott which include Hospiras results through the spin off date. In addition, during 2005, Hospira performed an analysis of the appropriate state tax rate required based on Hospiras tax position as a stand alone taxpayer for the net deferred tax assets transferred from Abbott at the spin off date. As a result, Hospira has determined that its income taxes as a stand alone taxpayer should be provided at a higher effective rate than the rate used while part of Abbott. The final adjustment for these two items was made in 2005, which resulted in a $12.0 million increase to net deferred tax assets and additional paid in capital. Prior to Hospiras separation from Abbott in April 2004, Hospira had no income tax filing history as an independent company. Prospectively, Hospira has been providing for income taxes based on its post separation independent activities. These estimates might change in future periods as Hospira develops its own tax filing history and considers the results of tax authority examinations. Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales decreased (0.7)% in 2005 compared to 2004. Sales to third parties represented a (0.3)% decline in overall sales, driven by volume/product mix of (1.9%), which includes the unfavorable impact of the Berlex contract termination of (4.9)%; partially offset by the impact of exchange of 0.3% and price of 1.3%. Sales to Abbott had an unfavorable impact of (0.4)% on overall sales growth, driven by the exclusion of the bulk drug cost from the pricing for certain products post spin, partially offset by increased demand. Net sales increased 0.8% in 2004 compared to 2003. Sales to third parties represented 2.5% growth in overall sales, driven by volume/product mix of 2.6% and exchange of 0.8%, offset by price of (0.6)% and a gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of (0.3)%. Sales to Abbott had an unfavorable impact of (1.7)% on overall sales growth driven by the exclusion of the bulk drug cost for certain products subsequent to the spin off and decreased demand. 38  A comparison of product line sales is as follows: Percent Change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 U.S. Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals $ 845 $ 894 $ 858 (5.5 )% 4.3 % Medication Delivery Systems 796 783 744 1.7 % 5.2 % Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 179 179 158 0.0 % 13.3 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 105 120 182 (12.6 )% (34.3 )% Other 263 244 267 7.3 % (8.3 )% Total U.S. 2,188 2,220 2,209 (1.5 )% 0.5 % International Sales to Third Parties 375 365 374 2.7 % (2.5 )% Sales to Abbott Laboratories 64 60 41 7.0 % 46.6 % Total International Sales 439 425 415 3.3 % 2.4 % Consolidated Net Sales $ 2,627 $ 2,645 $ 2,624 (0.7 )% 0.8 % *Percent change computed based on unrounded numbers 2005 compared to 2004: Sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals declined, reflecting the termination of the Berlex imaging agents distribution agreement and the impact of increased generic competition on Hospiras Corlopam&reg; product. Sales of the remainder of the Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals product line were strong, driven by the impact of sales of products launched in 2004 and 2005 (ceftriaxone, deferoxamine and fluconazole), increased volumes of syringe products, certain anti infectives (which Hospira believes was partially driven by a competitors inability to supply product in the third and fourth quarters of 2005, and which is not expected to have significant favorable impact beyond 2005); and favorable price. The sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was driven by growth in medication management systems, partially offset by a decline in infusion therapy products. The growth in medication management systems was due to placements of Hospiras newer technology Plum A+&reg; pumps with Hospira MedNet&reg; coupled with a higher mix of sales type leases and outright sales versus operating leases. The decline in infusion therapy product sales was driven by the expiration of a contract under which Hospira sold product to a competitor, as well as lower pricing on sets, partially offset by other favorable volume/mix. Sales in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing were flat primarily due to favorable price and growth in demand for several existing supply agreements offset by the impact of the termination of certain contracts. The decrease in U.S. Sales to Abbott was due to the exclusion of the cost of the bulk drug subsequent to the spin off for certain products manufactured for Abbott, while 2004 (through April) included the cost of these bulk drugs. This reflects the post spin off manufacturing arrangement between Hospira and Abbott, under which Abbott transfers the bulk drug to Hospira for processing and Hospiras sales include only the value added portion plus a markup for these products. This reduction was partially offset by increased demand by Abbott for several of its products and by the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off. The increase in Other U.S. sales was primarily due to increased sales of products launched in 2004 and 2005 (ceftriaxone and deferoxamine) and certain anti infectives (which Hospira believes was 39 partially driven by a competitors inability to supply product in the third and fourth quarters of 2005, and which is not expected to have significant favorable impact beyond 2005) to alternate site healthcare customers, partially offset by a decline in sales of critical care products. Hospira expects increased competition to negatively impact its deferoxamine sales in the future. International Sales to Third Parties increased primarily due to favorable foreign exchange rates. International Sales to Abbott increased primarily due to volume related to an additional product manufactured for Abbott subsequent to the spin off, coupled with the impact of the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off, partially offset by reduced demand on other products. 2004 compared to 2003: The sales increase in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals was primarily due to increased sales of generic anti infective products, new products (fluconazole and deferoxamine), Berlex imaging agents, and Precedex&reg;, partially offset by a decline in Corlopam&reg; due to generic competition. The sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was driven by growth in both medication management systems and infusion therapy products. The growth in medication management was due to increased placements of Hospiras newer technology Plum A+&reg;, Gemstar&reg; and Lifecare PCA&reg;3 pumps. In addition, medication management sales in 2004 were favorably impacted by a change in the business model which resulted in some leases being accounted for as sales type leases compared to the previous business model under which most leases were accounted for as operating leases. Included in 2004 is an adjustment of $7 million related to 2003 resulting from the reclassification of some leases from operating to sales type leases. The increase in infusion therapy product sales was driven by higher volumes, partially offset by price. The sales increase in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing was primarily due to the impact of the sales ramp up related to supply agreements signed in 2003, as well as growth in demand for several existing supply agreements. The decrease in U.S. Sales to Abbott was primarily due to the exclusion of the cost of the bulk drug subsequent to the spin off for certain products manufactured for Abbott, while 2003 included the cost of these bulk drugs for the full year. This reflects the post spin off manufacturing arrangement between Hospira and Abbott under which Abbott transfers the bulk drug to Hospira for processing and Hospiras sales include only the value added portion, plus a markup for these products. In addition, reduced demand by Abbott for several of its products contributed to the decline in sales. These reductions were partially offset by the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off. Other U.S. sales primarily include sales to alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, and sales of critical care products. The decline in Other U.S. sales is primarily due to 2003 reflecting the gain on the sale of paclitaxel product rights as well as the related loss of paclitaxel sales resulting from the divestiture of the product rights; a volume decline in critical care products, and the wind down of the home infusion product line in 2003, partially offset by increased sales to alternate site customers and 2003 sales being negatively impacted by a product recall. International Sales to Third Parties declined due to reduced emphasis on a low margin product and lower sales in critical care, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange rates. International Sales to Abbott increased in 2004 primarily due to volume related to an additional product manufactured for Abbott subsequent to the spin off, coupled with the impact of the markup on products sold to Abbott after the spin off. 40 Gross Profit Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Gross profit $ 849.1 $ 786.6 $ 701.1 7.9 % 12.2 % As a percent of sales 32.3 % 29.7 % 26.7 % 2005 compared to 2004: The increase in gross profit margin in 2005 was primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 2.6%, which includes the impact of Berlex of 1.2%; reduced benefit costs of 0.8% as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans in 2004, price of 0.9%, and other changes of 0.1%. These increases were offset by charges of (0.7)% resulting from the asset impairment and obligations assumed related to the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility to ICU and charges of (1.1)% resulting from the asset impairments related to the Ashland, Ohio and Montreal, Canada facilities and costs relating to the planned Donegal, Ireland plant shutdown. 2004 compared to 2003: The increase in gross profit margin in 2004 was primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 1.4%, lower freight and distribution costs of 0.7%, reduced benefit costs of 0.5% as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans in 2004, lower project expense of 0.7%, the impact of foreign exchange of 0.1%, the impact in 2003 of a product recall of 0.5% and the markup on sales to Abbott in 2004 resulting in a margin increase of 1.3%, compared to 2003 when sales were recorded at cost. These increases were offset by slightly lower prices of (0.4)%, additional depreciation of (0.3)% resulting from a revision in the estimated useful life for certain electronic drug delivery pumps placed with customers, manufacturing cost increases in 2004 of (1.0)% driven by inflation and increased facility maintenance costs, offset by productivity improvements, a gain on sale of paclitaxel product rights in 2003 of (0.3)% and other changes of (0.2)%. Research and Development Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Research and development expense $ 138.8 $ 119.6 $ 109.7 16.1 % 9.0 % As a percent of sales 5.3 % 4.5 % 4.2 % 2005 compared to 2004: The increase in research and development expenses in 2005 was primarily due to spending on new product development related to integrated software for drug delivery devices that help prevent medication errors, a next generation drug delivery device, new compounds added to Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline and spending for a Phase IV safety study on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;, as a condition of marketing the product. These increases were partially offset by reduced benefit costs as a result of the changes in benefit plans in 2004. 2004 compared to 2003: The increase in research and development expenses in 2004 was due to spending associated with new product development primarily related to the development of a next generation drug delivery device, software systems and new compounds being added to Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline. 41 Spending in 2004 also includes a Phase IV safety study on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;, as a condition of marketing the product. These increases were partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of the changes in certain post retirement benefit plans and higher spending in 2003 related to external contracted services for specific compliance projects. Selling, General and Administrative Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Selling, general and administrative expense $ 373.6 $ 304.0 $ 231.0 22.9 % 31.6 % As a percent of sales 14.2 % 11.5 % 8.8 % 2005 compared to 2004: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2005 primarily due to additional costs related to becoming a separate stand alone public company. These costs include the establishment of corporate functions, information technology and costs relating to establishing Hospiras business infrastructure outside the United States. A substantial portion of the increase relates to costs associated with the implementation of SAP as Hospiras global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The increase in costs was partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of changes in benefit plans in 2004. Hospiras selling, general and administrative expenses for 2005 reflect the first full year of ongoing, incremental expenses associated with being a separate stand alone company. 2004 compared to 2003: Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2004 primarily due to additional costs related to becoming a separate stand alone public company. These costs include the establishment of corporate functions, information technology and costs relating to establishing Hospiras business infrastructure outside the United States. The increase in costs was partially offset by reduced employee benefit costs as a result of changes in certain post retirement benefit plans. Hospiras selling, general and administrative expenses for 2004 reflect a partial year of ongoing, incremental expenses associated with being a separate stand alone company. Curtailment of Post Retirement Medical and Dental Benefits In the second quarter of 2004, Hospira announced a series of benefit plan changes, which included the discontinuation of the U.S. non union post retirement medical and dental plan. The effect of the discontinuation of the post retirement medical and dental plan was a non cash pre tax benefit of $64.6 million resulting from the reversal of the related liability. Interest Expense Prior to the spin off, Hospira did not have any debt. In connection with the spin off, Hospira incurred $700 million principal amount of debt, and, as a result, Hospira incurred interest expense of $28.3 million in 2005 and $18.8 million in 2004. Interest was primarily paid on the senior unsecured notes, which were issued to repay money borrowed under the senior unsecured credit facility that Hospira entered into in connection with the spin off. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, as well as Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, for further information regarding Hospiras debt and credit facilities. 42  Other (Income) Expense, Net Other income and expense for 2005, 2004 and 2003 primarily includes amounts relating to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest income, losses related to equity method investments, and other items. Foreign exchange (gains) for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $(0.1) million, $(0.3) million and $(1.8) million, respectively. Interest income for 2005 was $15.1 million compared to $2.4 million in 2004. Prior to the spin off, Hospira did not hold cash. Losses related to equity investments include amounts allocated from Abbott prior to the spin off for 2004 and 2003 of $1.3 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rates were 26.8% in 2005, 26.7% in 2004 and 27.5% in 2003. Included in 2005 is tax of $9.1 million related to the repatriation of foreign earnings of $175 million under the Jobs Act. Excluding the effect of the repatriation, the 2005 effective tax rate was 24.0%. The effective tax rate for 2004 included the impact of a significant unusual item, the curtailment of the post retirement medical and dental plan noted above. Excluding the effect of the curtailment benefit, the 2004 effective tax rate was 24.7%. The decreases in the effective tax rates in 2005 and 2004 were due primarily to increased income generated in foreign jurisdictions, which have lower tax rates than the United States. The effective tax rates are less than the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate principally due to the benefit of tax exemptions, of varying durations, in certain jurisdictions outside the United States. Taxes on income are determined on a separate return basis through April 30, 2004, at which time Hospira became a separate stand alone taxpayer. Abbott has retained responsibility for all tax liabilities prior to the spin off date. Liquidity and Capital Resources Summary of Sources and (Uses) of Cash Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Operating activities $ 571.1 $ 387.0 $ 368.1 Investing activities (184.4 ) (301.3 ) (193.4 ) Financing activities 8.6 40.6 (174.8 ) Operating Activities Net Cash From Operating Activities continues to be Hospiras primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Capital resources include cash on hand and borrowing availability under Hospiras $375 million credit facility. In 2005, operating activities provided net cash of $571.1 million, primarily driven by net income of $235.6 million, non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $156.3 million, a non cash impairment charge of $13.1 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $166.1 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of an increase in accruals for employee incentive programs and other accruals, including those resulting from obligations assumed related to the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility, the planned closure of the Donegal, Ireland plant, an increase in accrued rebates, an increase in accounts payable, and an increase in income taxes payable. In 2004, operating activities provided net cash of $387.0 million, primarily driven by net income of $301.6 million and non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $145.5 million, offset by the non cash curtailment benefit of $40.4 million, net of tax, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $19.7 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consists principally of an increase in trade receivables generated primarily by increases in third party sales, increased contributions to 43 pension plans, net of additional provisions, offset by a decrease in inventory and an increase in current liabilities. Cash inflows from increases in current liabilities were generated by increases in accruals related to the build up of infrastructure to operate as a stand alone company, as well as increases in benefit and payroll related accruals, and accrued interest. Inventory decreased from 2003 levels, which were higher than the prior year primarily to meet sales initiatives in future periods, to better match inventory levels with customer demand, and due to a short term increase in the manufacturing process. Investing Activities In 2005, Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $184.4 million includes capital expenditures of $256.1 million for upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development and administrative support facilities and information technology systems. In addition, investing activities include the use of cash of $23.6 million for the acquisition of Physiometrix and purchases of certain intangibles and other investments of $9.0 million. These are offset by $72.4 million in proceeds from the sales of marketable debt securities and $31.8 million in proceeds from the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility and related assets. Hospiras investing activities in 2004 consisted primarily of capital expenditures necessary to expand and upgrade its manufacturing capabilities and infrastructure, and purchases of marketable securities. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities included payments of $228.9 million in 2004, primarily related to upgrading and expanding manufacturing, research and development and administrative support facilities, and information technology systems. Prior to the spin off, Hospira remitted cash generated primarily from operations to Abbott. Subsequent to the spin off, Hospira has invested cash, depending on working capital requirements, in marketable securities. Financing Activities Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities in 2005 consisted primarily of proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $118.8 million and other borrowing activities, offset by payments to Abbott for international net assets of $116.7 million. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities in 2004 consisted primarily of net transactions with Abbott previous to and related to the spin off, receipt of the payment from Abbott related to the pension funding requirements under the Employee Benefits Agreement, and the issuance and payment of short term and long term debt, net of discount and financing fees. Operational transactions with Abbott after the spin off are included in operating cash flows. Prior to the spin off, Hospira, as part of Abbott, did not hold cash, and the related transactions with Abbott were reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows in the financing section as "Net transactions with Abbott Laboratories." Subsequent to the spin off, Hospira retains cash and cash equivalents, which primarily include demand deposits with banks or other financial institutions. Summary of Financial Position Years ended December 31 (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Cash and cash equivalents $ 520.6 $ 127.7 $ Marketable securities 72.4 Working capital 964.9 662.1 681.7 Short term borrowings and long term debt 697.9 698.8 Due to Abbott, net (Includes current and long term) 79.1 189.1 44 Working Capital The increase in working capital in 2005 was primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents and a decrease in the current portion of "Due to Abbott, Net," which is principally related to the liability for the international net assets to be transferred from Abbott. This is offset by a decrease in marketable securities, increase in liabilities related to accruals for employee incentive programs and other accruals, primarily obligations related to the sale of the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility, the closure of the Donegal, Ireland plant and an increase in income taxes payable. The decrease in working capital in 2004 was primarily due to the current portion of "Due to Abbott, Net," which is principally related to the liability for the international net assets to be transferred from Abbott, and decreases in inventory, offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, trade receivables, and current deferred income taxes. The increase in cash is due primarily to eight months of cash flow from operations being retained by Hospira that prior to the spin off would have been remitted to Abbott. Hospira believes that its current capital resources, including cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash it generates from operations and funds available from its revolving credit facility will be sufficient to finance its operations, including product development, transition costs, international net asset transfers and capital expenditures, for the foreseeable future. Debt and Capital Hospira has a five year $375 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which it entered into on December 16, 2005 (the "Revolver"), and which is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver replaced Hospiras prior revolving credit agreement, which was entered into on April 30, 2004 and amended on April 29, 2005. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. Borrowings under the Revolver bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, plus a utilization fee if borrowings under the Revolver exceed 50% of the aggregate amount of committed loans. Hospira is also required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate amount of committed loans. The annual rates for the LIBOR margin, the utilization fee and the facility fee are currently 0.45%, 0.075% and 0.10%, respectively, and are subject to increase or decrease if there is a change in Hospiras current credit rating of BBB by Standard & Poors. The amount of available borrowings may be increased to a maximum of $500 million, and the term may be increased for up to two additional years, under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had no amounts borrowed or otherwise outstanding under the Revolver. In March 2005, Hospira issued economic development promissory notes, the proceeds of which were used for a distribution facility expansion. The $1.75 million ten year notes bear a fixed rate of interest of 2%, with principal and interest due monthly. In January 2005, Hospira entered into interest rate swap transactions whereby the $300 million five year senior unsecured notes due in June 2009 were effectively converted from fixed to floating rate debt. At December 31, 2005, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(8.7) million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount that Hospira would have to pay to counterparties. Hospira has entered into various loan agreements related to the legal transfer of certain international operations from Abbott. These borrowings are made by Hospiras foreign affiliates in their local currency and are used to optimize the capital structure. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had $5.9 million of such loans outstanding. On June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an offering of a $700 million aggregate principal amount of notes consisting of $300 million principal amount of five year senior unsecured notes and $400 million 45 principal amount of ten year senior unsecured notes. The $300 million five year notes bear interest at a rate of 4.95% per annum and mature on June 15, 2009, and the $400 million ten year notes bear interest at a rate of 5.90% per annum and mature on June 15, 2014. The proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, were used to repay all amounts outstanding under the short term senior unsecured credit facility. On April 28, 2004, Abbott and Hospira entered into a $700 million, short term senior unsecured credit facility ("Senior Facility"). The proceeds of the Senior Facility borrowing were retained by Abbott. On the spin off date, Abbott was relieved of all obligations under the Senior Facility and Hospira became solely responsible for repayment of the principal and for payment of interest and fees on this debt. On June 15, 2004, all amounts under the Senior Facility were repaid with proceeds from the senior unsecured notes, together with cash on hand. The Revolver and the Senior Unsecured Notes contain, among other provisions, covenants with which Hospira must comply while they are in force. The covenants limit Hospiras ability to allow liens on its properties or assets, or merge or consolidate with other entities. Under the amended Revolver, among other things, Hospira must also comply with certain financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira was in compliance with all covenants under the amended Revolver and the Senior Unsecured Notes. In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. These operations and assets are used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira is obligated to pay Abbott for these operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, over a two year period after the spin off date as Hospira establishes its business infrastructure outside the United States and obtains regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The amount payable is equal to the net book value of those assets and liabilities at the time of such transfer. Accordingly, the net book value will be affected by normal operations, exchange rates and other business factors. Hospira pays Abbott interest, at local prevailing short term rates, in connection with Hospiras use of certain of these assets during that period. As of December 31, 2005, the net book value of the assets and liabilities that had not yet transferred was $130.5 million. The net book value of the net assets primarily consists of trade receivables of $43.6 million, inventory of $55.2 million, equipment of $31.2 million and other, net of $0.5 million. Each amount has been included in the corresponding balance sheet line item. The amount due to Abbott for the net book value of assets and liabilities is offset by $49.1 million for items that are due from Abbott related to the international business. These items include amounts due for operating profits and inventory purchases of Hospira products to support the international business. All amounts outstanding between Hospira and Abbott are included in Due to Abbott, Net on the balance sheet. In 2005, the net assets of 36 countries were legally transferred from Abbott. The total amounts paid in 2005 were $116.7 million. The net assets of the remaining countries are expected to be transferred to Hospira in the first half of 2006. 46 Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes Hospiras estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 (dollars in millions): Payment Due by Period Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter Long term debt and interest payments $ 960.7 $ 41.1 $ 81.1 $ 355.0 $ 483.5 Lease obligations 157.9 23.5 39.1 34.7 60.6 Purchase commitments(1) 423.0 407.1 15.6 0.3 Other long term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet(2) 22.3 22.3 Amounts due to Abbott for acquisition of certain international net assets(3) 130.5 130.5 Total $ 1,694.4 $ 602.2 $ 158.1 $ 390.0 $ 544.1 (1)Purchase commitments consist primarily of inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements. Contractual capital commitments are also included here, but these commitments represent only a portion of the expected capital spending in 2006 and beyond. (2)Excludes approximately $143.5 million of other long term liabilities related primarily to post retirement benefit obligations. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K regarding benefit payments for post retirement obligations. Hospira does not expect to contribute to its main U.S. pension plan in 2006. (3)The amount due to Abbott for the acquisition of certain international net assets excludes an offsetting amount of $49.1 million for items that are due from Abbott related to the international business. These include amounts due for operating profits and inventory purchases of Hospira products to support the international business. Hospiras commercial commitments as of December 31, 2005, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, primarily consist of non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had $8.9 million of outstanding letters of credit, all with expirations in 2006. No amounts have been drawn on these letters of credit. Hospira has no material exposures to off balance sheet arrangements, no special purpose entities, and no activities that include non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs." This statement clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facilities expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material. This statement requires that those items be recognized as current period expenses. In addition, the statement requires that allocation of fixed overhead to the cost of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. For Hospira, this statement is effective for inventory costs incurred after December 31, 2005. Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material effect on Hospiras financial position or results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, which requires, among other changes, that the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized as compensation cost over 47 the vesting period based on the fair value of the instrument on the date of grant. SFAS No. 123R revises SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), which previously allowed pro forma disclosure of certain share based compensation expense. Further, SFAS No. 123R supercedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," which previously allowed the intrinsic value method of accounting for stock options. Since Hospira currently accounts for share based payments using the intrinsic value method, Hospiras results of operations have not included the recognition of compensation expense. Had Hospira applied the fair value criteria established in SFAS No. 123R to previous stock option grants, the impact to the results of operations would have approximated the pro forma expense under SFAS No. 123, which is disclosed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. On April 14, 2005, the SEC adopted a rule that amended the compliance date of SFAS No. 123R to require implementation no later than the beginning of the first fiscal year which begins after June 15, 2005 (January 1, 2006 for Hospira). The effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R on diluted earnings per share in future periods is dependent on the number of options granted in the future, the terms of those awards and their fair values. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections" ("SFAS No. 154"), which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle. The statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements, or the latest practicable date, as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle. Previous rules generally required that changes in accounting principles were recognized by including the cumulative effect of the change in net income in the period of change. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material effect on Hospiras financial position or results of operations. Legislative Issues Hospiras primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulation. Hospira expects debate to continue at both the federal and state levels over the availability, method of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services. If additional legislation is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing prices, or reducing the rate of price increases, for medical products and services. International operations are also subject to a significant degree of government regulation. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Hospira or the healthcare industry in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future.  Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instrument and Risk Management Hospira operates globally, and earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Upon consideration of management objectives, costs and opportunities, Hospira uses derivative instruments, including foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to manage these risks. Hospira enters into derivative instrument contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions to limit the amount of credit exposure to nonperformance by any one institution. Hospira does not utilize derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras operations are exposed to currency exchange rate risk, which is mitigated by Hospiras use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts ("forward contracts"). The objective in managing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash 48 flows associated with these changes. Currency exposures include third party trade payables and receivables, and intercompany loans where the asset or liability is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. Forward contract gains and losses on these exposures substantially offset the remeasurement of the hedged asset or liability. In addition, currency exposures exist for certain subsidiaries for anticipated intercompany purchases, firm commitments, and third party forecasted transactions expected to be denominated in a foreign currency due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Forward contract gains and losses for these exposures are included in other income during the term of the forward contract, as they are not formally designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Net forward contract expense and the carrying value and fair value of forward contracts were not significant in 2005 and 2004. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira participated in Abbotts management of these same foreign currency exposures. In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. These operations and assets are used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira is obligated to pay Abbott for these operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, from Abbott over a two year period after the spin off date as Hospira establishes its business infrastructure outside the United States and obtains regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The amount payable is equal to the net book value of those assets and liabilities at the time of such transfer. Accordingly, the net book value is affected by normal operations, exchange rates and other business factors. Exchange rate gains and losses on the net asset exposures are substantially offset by the remeasurement of a portion of the Due to Abbott liability, both of which are denominated in the foreign currency of the applicable country. Upon transfer, the net assets will be maintained in the functional currency of the operating country whereby exchange rate changes affecting the net assets will be included as cumulative translation adjustments in equity. Hospira does not currently intend to hedge the net investment exposure. Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras primary interest rate exposures relate to cash and cash equivalents, and fixed and variable rate debt. The objective in managing exposure to changes in interest rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Hospiras investment portfolio of $532.5 million at December 31, 2005 consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity securities, which are classified as "available for sale." For equity securities, any gains or losses will not be recognized in Hospiras statements of income until the investment is sold or if there is a reduction in fair value that is determined to be an other than temporary impairment. The carrying value of the investment portfolio approximates fair market value at December 31, 2005 and the value at maturity, as the majority of investments consist of securities with maturities of less than three months. Because Hospiras investments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates, based on average cash and cash equivalents during the year, would increase/(decrease) interest income by approximately $3.2 million. In conjunction with the spin off from Abbott, on June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an underwritten offering of a consolidated $700 million aggregate principal amount consisting of $300 million five year senior unsecured notes and $400 million ten year senior unsecured notes both of which bear a fixed rate of interest. In addition, Hospiras new credit facility, entered into on December 16, 2005, consists of a revolving credit facility of $375 million ("Revolver") that is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable 49 interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had no amounts outstanding under the Revolver. Hospira has entered into various loan agreements related to the legal transfer of certain international operations from Abbott. These borrowings are made by Hospiras foreign affiliates in their local currency and are used to optimize the capital structure. As of December 31, 2005, Hospira had $5.9 million of such loans outstanding. In January 2005, Hospira entered into interest rate swap transactions whereby the $300 million five year senior unsecured notes due in June 2009 were effectively converted from fixed to floating rate debt. Hospira records the interest rate swap contracts at fair value and offsets the carrying amount of the fixed rate debt by the same amount. At December 31, 2005, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(8.7) million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount that Hospira would have to pay to counterparties. As a result of converting from fixed to floating rate debt, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $3.0 million. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above, as well as Notes 5 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K, for further information. 50   
 
