Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained in this annual report. These forward looking statements speak only as of the date on which the statements were made. Hospira undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  PART I Item 1. Business Overview Hospira, Inc. ("Hospira") is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company that is focused on products that improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. Hospira is a leader in the development, manufacture and marketing of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication delivery systems that deliver drugs and intravenous ("I.V.") fluids. Hospira is also a leading provider of contract manufacturing services to proprietary pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities. In 2007, Hospiras net sales were $3,436.2 million, on which it earned net income of $136.8 million. The United States is the largest market for Hospiras products and accounted for approximately 69% of 2007 sales. Sales outside the United States accounted for the remaining 31% of sales. Hospira currently has two reportable segments, U.S. and International, through which its products are sold. For financial information relating to Hospiras segments and the geographic areas, see Note 11 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this document. As each reportable segment produces and sells similar products and services, unless the context requires otherwise, the disclosure in Items 1 and 1A relates to both reportable segments. General Development of Business Hospira was incorporated in Delaware on September 16, 2003, as a wholly owned subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories ("Abbott"). Hospiras business first began operation as part of Abbott in the 1930s. As part of a plan to spin off its core hospital products business, Abbott transferred the assets and liabilities relating to Hospiras business to Hospira and, on April 30, 2004, distributed Hospiras common stock to Abbotts shareholders. On that date, Hospira began operating as an independent company, and on May 3, 2004, Hospiras common stock began trading on the New York Stock 1 Exchange under the symbol "HSP." The transfer of assets and liabilities to Hospira, and distribution of Hospira common stock as described above, are sometimes referred to in this document as the "spin off," and April 30, 2004 is sometimes referred to as the "spin off date." As Hospiras business was conducted by Abbott before the spin off, references in this annual report to Hospiras historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities before the spin off date are generally intended to refer to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of Hospiras business as it was conducted as a part of Abbott. Under the terms of the spin off, the legal title to certain assets and operations relating to Hospiras business outside the United States was transferred from Abbott over the two year period after the spin off. These transfers were completed during 2006. On September 20, 2006, Hospira entered into an agreement to acquire Mayne Pharma Limited ("Mayne Pharma"), an Australia based specialty injectable pharmaceutical company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange, for approximately $2,055.0 million in cash. The acquisition was completed on February 2, 2007. Hospira financed the acquisition through approximately $130.0 million of cash on hand and $1,925.0 million of borrowings under new credit facilities. Hospiras financial statements included in this report do not include the financial results of Mayne Pharma for any of the periods or at any of the dates presented prior to February 2, 2007. Unless the context shall require otherwise, this Item 1 describes Hospiras business conducted through December 31, 2007, including the Mayne Pharma acquisition. Prior to the acquisition, Mayne Pharma was an international specialty injectable pharmaceutical company, and had a portfolio of generic injectable products, including anti cancer agents, anti infectives and other agents for pain management and other therapeutic areas. Mayne Pharma also provided contract manufacturing services, and produced and sold oral pharmaceutical products. Mayne Pharma had operations in three regions: Europe, Middle East and Africa, Asia Pacific and the Americas. Mayne Pharma had AUD$788.9 million of revenues during its fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, as reported under Australian International Financial Reporting Standards. Reference to AUD$ in this report are to Australian Dollars. Since completing the acquisition, Hospira has been integrating Mayne Pharma into its operations. By December 31, 2007, such integration was completed in the United States, Canada, Belgium, Portugal, the Netherlands, Italy, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia. The remaining integration work is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2008 in all remaining countries in which Mayne had a direct presence. Hospira expects to incur approximately $95 million to $110 million of cash expenditures for integration for the two year period after the closing, of which $60 million to $75 million will be recorded as expense, the remainder relating to purchase accounting items and capital projects. These expenses relate to the closure of facilities, termination of lease agreements and employee related benefit arrangements during the two year period after the closing. 2 Products Hospira offers the following types of products and services: Type Description Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals Approximately 190 injectable generic drugs in more than 900 dosages and formulations Precedex&reg; (dexmedetomidine HCl), a proprietary drug for sedation Medication Delivery Systems Medication management systems that include electronic pumps and sets for I.V. drug delivery, and patient controlled analgesia devices for pain management Hospira MedNet&reg; safety software system and related services I.V. solutions, nutritional products and gravity administration sets Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing Formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable pharmaceuticals on a contract basis for proprietary pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies Other Products Hemodynamic monitoring systems used in the intensive care setting, critical care units to measure cardiac output and blood flow, and brain function monitoring devices Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceutical products primarily consist of generic injectable pharmaceuticals, which provide customers with a lower cost alternative to branded products that are no longer patent protected. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had approximately 190 generic injectable drugs in more than 900 dosages and formulations. These drugs therapeutic areas include analgesia, anesthesia, anti infective, cardiovascular and oncology. All of Hospiras generic injectable pharmaceuticals in the U.S. include unit of use bar code labels that can be used to support safer medication delivery. Hospira primarily procures the active pharmaceutical ingredients in these products from third party suppliers. During 2007, Hospira launched several new generic injectable pharmaceutical products, including fosphenytoin in the U.S. and ciprofloxacin in select European countries. Hospira believes that novel drug delivery formulations and formats are key points of product differentiation for generic injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira offers a wide variety of drug delivery options, and believes that its products assist its customers efforts to enhance safety, increase productivity and reduce waste. Hospiras drug delivery formats include standard offerings in ampoules and flip top vials, which clinicians can use with standard syringes. Hospiras proprietary drug delivery options include Carpuject&reg; and iSecure prefilled syringes, Ansyr&reg; prefilled needleless emergency syringe systems, First Choice&reg; ready to use premixed formulations and the ADD Vantage&reg; system for preparing drug solutions from prepackaged drug powders or concentrates. Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceutical product portfolio also includes Precedex&reg; (dexmedetomidine HCl), a proprietary sedative that is used in the intensive care setting. Precedex&reg; is a registered trademark of Orion Corporation and is licensed to Hospira by Orion. 3 Medication Delivery Systems The segments of the medication delivery systems market that Hospira serves are (1) medication management systems, which include electronic drug delivery pumps, safety software, administration sets and accessories, and related services; and (2) infusion therapy solutions and products that are used to deliver I.V. fluids and medications to patients. Medication Management Systems. Medication management systems include electronic drug delivery pumps, safety software and administration sets that are used to deliver I.V. fluids and medications. Hospira also offers services relating to these products. Worldwide, Hospira estimates that more than 400,000 of its electronic drug delivery pumps were in use as of December 31, 2007. Hospiras electronic delivery pumps include its next generation patient controlled analgesia device, the LifeCare PCA&reg;; its next generation general infusion system, Symbiq&reg; with built in Hospira MedNet&reg; safety software, the Plum A+&reg; general infusion pump; the Plum A+&reg;3 (triple channel) infusion system; the GemStar&reg; ambulatory infusion pump; and the OmniFlow&reg; 4000 Plus multi channel pump. Hospira also offers disposable administration sets designed to fit the specific drug delivery pumps. Consulting services, software maintenance agreements and other service offerings are also commercially available. Hospira believes that electronic drug delivery pumps with enhanced systems capabilities have become a key contributor in efforts to improve medication management programs and decrease the incidence of medication errors. Some of Hospiras pumps use bar coding to read drug labels that are compatible with other Hospira products, reducing the opportunity for drug infusion errors. Hospira offers the Hospira MedNet&reg; safety software system, which has been designed to enable hospitals to customize intravenous drug dosage limits and track drug delivery to prevent medication errors. Through its drug library and programmable drug dosage limits, the system can help ensure that medication is infused within hospital defined dose guidelines and best practices. The wireless network version of the Hospira MedNet&reg; system establishes real time send and receive capability and can interface with select hospital and pharmacy information systems. Hospira continues to work with hospital information technology companies to integrate the Hospira MedNet&reg; system with other systems. The Hospira MedNet&reg; system is available in the Symbiq&reg; infusion system, and also for the Plum A+&reg; infusion pump, the Plum A+&reg;3 (triple channel) infusion system and the LifeCare PCA&reg; patient controlled analgesia device, which together represent the majority of Hospiras line of electronic drug delivery pumps. Hospira believes that the Hospira MedNet&reg; system had penetrated approximately 51% of the compatible Plum A+&reg; and patient controlled analgesia installed base in the U.S. by December 31, 2007. Infusion Therapy Solutions and Supplies. Hospira offers infusion therapy solutions and supplies that include I.V. solutions for general use, I.V. nutrition products, and solutions for the washing and cleansing of wounds or surgical sites. All of Hospiras injectable I.V. solutions include unit of use bar code labels that can be used to support medication management efforts. Hospiras line of infusion therapy supplies includes administration sets used in gravity I.V. administration, I.V. catheters and safety devices that are used to facilitate delivery of I.V. fluids and medications without the use of needles. Hospira also offers infusion therapy solutions in its VisIV&reg; next generation non PVC, non DEHP I.V. container, an I.V. bag with advanced safety and environmentally friendly features. Hospira offers needlestick safety products and programs to support its customers needlestick prevention initiatives. LifeShield&reg; CLAVE&reg; and MicroCLAVE&reg; connectors are one piece valves that directly connect syringes filled with medications to a patients I.V. line without the use of needles. ICU Medical, Inc.s ("ICU Medical") CLAVE&reg; connectors are a component of administration sets sold by Hospira to its customers in the United States and select markets outside the United States. 4 Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing Through its One2One&reg; manufacturing services group, Hospira provides contract manufacturing services for formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable drugs worldwide. Hospira works with its proprietary pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers to develop stable injectable forms of their drugs, and Hospira fills and finishes those and other drugs into containers and packaging selected by the customer. The customer then sells the finished products under its own label. Hospiras One2One&reg; manufacturing services group does not generally manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients, but offers a wide range of filling and finishing services, including solutions preparation, sterile filling, lyophilization (freeze drying), terminal sterilization and packaging, and has expertise in formulation development, analytical development and regulatory services. Client companies can choose from a variety of delivery systems that include vials, flexible containers, prefilled syringes and proprietary drug delivery systems such as ADD Vantage&reg;. One2One&reg; serves numerous customers, including some of the largest global proprietary pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Other Products Other sales primarily include critical care devices. Hospira provides hemodynamic monitoring systems that are used to monitor cardiac function and blood flow in critically ill patients. Hospiras critical care devices include its Transpac&reg; disposable blood pressure sensing devices, Safeset Blood Sampling System and various catheter systems. Customers, Sales and Distribution Net sales in the United States accounted for approximately 69% of Hospiras 2007 net sales. Hospiras primary customers in the United States include hospitals, integrated delivery networks and alternate site facilities. A substantial portion of Hospiras products is sold to group purchasing organization ("GPO") member hospitals and through wholesalers and distributors. Sales through the four largest wholesalers that supply products to many end users accounted for approximately 53% of total net sales during 2007. As end users have multiple ways to access Hospiras products, including through more than one wholesaler or distributor, and, in some cases, from Hospira directly, Hospira believes that it is not dependent on any single wholesaler or distributor for distribution of its products. Hospira has pricing agreements for specified products with the major GPOs in the United States, including Amerinet, Inc.; Broadlane; HealthTrust Purchasing Group LP.; MedAssets Inc.; Novation, LLC; PACT, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. The scope of products included in these agreements varies by GPO. Hospiras sales organization includes sales professionals, who sell across its major product lines, as well as product specialists who detail and promote its medication delivery systems, and sales personnel who market and sell Precedex&reg; and select other products. Hospira also has extensive experience contracting with, marketing to and servicing members of the major GPOs. In the United States, Hospiras products are primarily distributed through a network of five distribution facilities as well as through external distributors. The U.S. distribution facilities Hospira operates are located in Atlanta, Georgia; Dallas, Texas; King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; Los Angeles, California; and Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin. Sales in markets outside the United States comprised approximately 31% of 2007 net sales. Hospira manages its international operations through two international regional hubs in Royal Leamington Spa, United Kingdom; and Melbourne, Australia. Certain operations for North and South America are managed in Lake Forest, Illinois. Hospira has direct commercial infrastructure in some countries and operates through distributors in others. Under the terms of the spin off, the legal title to 5 certain assets and operations relating to Hospiras business outside the United States was transferred from Abbott over the two year period after the spin off. These transfers were completed during 2006. Hospiras primary customers in markets outside the United States are hospitals and wholesalers that Hospira serves through its own sales force and its distributors. The majority of Hospiras business outside the United States is conducted through contracting with individual hospitals or through regional or national tenders whereby Hospira submits bids to sell its products. Hospira believes that backlogged orders do not represent a material portion of its sales or provide a meaningful indication of future sales. Product Development Hospiras development programs are concentrated in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management systems. Hospira also maintains an active development program to support its injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing relationships. Hospira primarily engages in programs to bring new products to market that are unique or that enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, productivity, safety and reliability of existing product lines, and that expand the use of Hospiras products in new markets or new applications. Hospira operates significant product development facilities located in Lake Forest, Illinois; McPherson, Kansas; Morgan Hill, California; San Diego, California; Mulgrave, Victoria, Australia; and Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. Hospira is actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products, which are sometimes referred to as "generic" versions of biopharmaceuticals or biologics. Biosimilar products are large complex molecules derived from cells that are demonstrated to be similar to an approved product. In 2006, Hospira entered into collaboration agreements with STADA Arzneimittel AG and BIOCEUTICALS Arzneimittel AG relating to the development, manufacturing and distribution of a biosimilar version of erythropoietin. Hospira received regulatory approval in December 2007 from the European Commission to launch Retacrit, its biosimilar version of erythropoietin in the European Union. Hospira subsequently began the launch of Retacrit in the European Union during 2008. Therapeutic erythropoietin is used primarily in the treatment of anemia in dialysis and in certain oncology applications. During 2006, Hospira acquired BresaGen Limited, a biotechnology company based in Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. BresaGen provides protein and peptide manufacturing and cell line development capabilities, which Hospira believes are important competencies to support its biosimilar efforts. Hospiras key programs in the area of medication management systems include the development of advanced infusion platforms and systems, including its Hospira MedNet&reg; safety software system, and systems that emphasize ease of use for clinicians, including its Symbiq&reg; infusion pump. Hospira has entered into alliances with several leading information technology companies to develop interfaces that enable the Hospira MedNet&reg; system to be used with a variety of hospital information systems and to improve cost efficiencies in patient management. Hospira expects to continue entering into strategic alliances as part of its "open system architecture" strategy for the Hospira MedNet&reg; system. Hospiras research and development expenses were $201.2 million in 2007, $161.6 million in 2006 and $138.8 million in 2005. 2007 includes $47.2 million related to the acquisition of Mayne Pharma. Manufacturing As of December 31, 2007, Hospira operated 16 manufacturing facilities globally. Hospiras principal manufacturing facilities are identified in Item 2 of this report. Hospira closed its Donegal, Ireland facility in late 2006, closed the Ashland, Ohio facility in late 2007 and expects to close the Montreal, Canada facility by the end of the first half of 2008. Hospira 6 expects to phase out production at the North Chicago, Illinois facility, which is leased from Abbott under a 10 year lease expiring in 2014, on an accelerated time frame with most of the phase out occurring by early 2010. Production of the primary products at these facilities is moving to other Hospira facilities and or being outsourced to third party suppliers. During 2006, Hospira began a $60 million expansion of manufacturing capacity at the McPherson, Kansas facility, in part to accommodate some of the production from the North Chicago, Illinois facility. The expansion neared completion in 2007. Hospiras four largest facilities, located in Rocky Mount, North Carolina; Austin, Texas; McPherson, Kansas; and Mulgrave, Victoria, Australia, account for a significant portion of Hospiras manufacturing output. While Hospira has not experienced a significant interruption of manufacturing at those facilities, such an interruption could materially and adversely affect Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. Raw Materials and Components While Hospira produces some raw materials, components and active pharmaceutical ingredients at its manufacturing sites, the majority are sourced on a global basis from third party suppliers. Although many of the raw materials and components Hospira uses to produce its products are readily available from multiple suppliers, Hospira relies on supply from a single source for many raw materials and components. For example, Hospira relies on proprietary components available exclusively from ICU Medical. ICU Medicals CLAVE&reg; and MicroCLAVE&reg; connector products are components of administration sets that represented approximately 12% of Hospiras 2007 sales. Hospira also purchases a significant portion of its critical care products from ICU Medical, pursuant to its long term manufacturing, commercialization and development agreement with ICU Medical. In addition, Hospira purchases some of its raw materials and components from single suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. In order to manage risk, Hospira continually evaluates alternate source suppliers, although it does not typically pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of its existing supplier relationships, the reliability of its current supplier base, and the time and expense associated with the regulatory process. Although a change in suppliers could require significant effort or investment by Hospira in circumstances where the items supplied are integral to the performance of its products or incorporate unique technology, Hospira does not believe that the loss of any existing supply arrangement (other than its CLAVE&reg; supply arrangement with ICU Medical, which continues through 2014) would have a material adverse effect on its business. Quality Assurance Hospira has developed and implemented quality systems and concepts throughout its organization. Hospira is actively involved in setting quality policies and managing internal and external quality performance. Its quality assurance department provides quality leadership and supervises its quality systems. An active audit program, utilizing both internal and external auditors, monitors compliance with applicable regulations, standards and internal policies. In addition, Hospiras facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") and other regulatory authorities. In the past, Hospiras business has received notices alleging violations of applicable regulations and standards, and Hospira has developed definitive action plans, implemented remedial programs and modified its practices to address these issues. These matters have not materially impacted Hospiras ability to market and sell its products. 7 Competition Hospiras industry is highly competitive. Hospira competes with many companies, both public and private, that range from small, highly focused companies to large diversified healthcare manufacturers. Hospira believes that the most effective competitors in its industry are focused on product quality and performance, breadth of product offering, manufacturing efficiency and the ability to develop and deliver cost effective products that help hospitals provide high quality care in an environment that requires increasing levels of efficiency and productivity. Hospiras most significant competitors in specialty injectable pharmaceuticals include APP Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Baxter International Inc., Bedford Laboratories (a division of Boehringer Ingelheim), Sandoz and Teva Pharmaceuticals, as well as divisions of several multinational pharmaceutical companies. Local manufacturers of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals also compete with Hospira on a country by country basis. Hospiras most significant competitors in medication delivery systems include Baxter, B. Braun Melsungen AG, Cardinal Healthcare Inc., Fresenius Medical Care AG and Terumo Medical Corporation. Baxter, Patheon, Inc. and Catelent Pharma Solutions are significant competitors of Hospiras contract manufacturing business. Edwards Lifesciences Corporation is a significant competitor in critical care monitoring devices. Hospira believes that it is one of the leading competitors, in terms of U.S. market share, in each of its major product lines, and believes that its size, scale, customer relationships and breadth of product line are significant contributors to its market positions. Hospira believes that to further its competitive position it must continue to invest significantly in, and successfully execute, its research and product development activities, optimize its manufacturing efficiency and productivity, increase its international presence and successfully integrate Mayne Pharmas business into its operations. Particularly, within its specialty injectable product line, Hospira seeks to maximize its opportunity to establish a "first to market" position for its generic injectable drugs and, within its medication delivery systems product line, Hospira seeks to differentiate its products through technological innovation and an integrated approach to drug delivery. These efforts will depend heavily on the success of Hospiras research and development programs. Generic penetration rates in Europe vary due to wide variations in the structure of health care systems (including purchasing practices) and government policies regarding the use of generic products and pricing, which all lead to differing levels of customer acceptance. Because the European market is fragmented, with different policies and levels of generic penetration in each country, the competition for generic pharmaceuticals differs widely. In general, the United States is a largely homogenous market with a higher level of generic drug usage. In Europe, competitors tend to vary by country and are often smaller in scale than those in the United States, although some consolidation and geographic expansion is now occurring. Teva is the largest company that competes with Hospira in the generic oncology market across Europe. Hospiras other key competitors vary from country to country. In Australia, generic penetration is growing primarily due to changes in government support. Laws have been introduced to allow for easier compulsory substitution of generic for branded pharmaceuticals, as a response to pressure to reduce costs, which is believed to have resulted in an increased acceptance of generic pharmaceutical products. Competitors include the Sandoz division of Novartis, a number of smaller competitors and the innovator companies. In the Asian region, Hospira sells its products primarily to public and private hospitals. Hospiras competition in the Asian region tends to be with the innovator companies rather than local generic competitors. In Japan, the market share of generic pharmaceutical products traditionally has been low because of quality perceptions, product format and other regulatory differences to other markets. The Japanese government is actively pursuing a program to double generic usage within the next five years. 8  Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property When possible, Hospira seeks patent and trademark protection for its products. Hospira owns, or has licenses under, a substantial number of patents, patent applications, trademarks and trademark applications. However, Hospira does not consider any one or more of these patents, patent applications, trademarks and trademark applications to be material in relation to its business as a whole. Hospira is actively pursuing a strategy of challenging the intellectual property of proprietary pharmaceutical companies in an effort to be the first generic company to the market for certain drug compounds. Employees As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had more than 14,000 employees. Approximately 8,100 employees were in the United States. A significant portion of Hospiras employees outside of the United States are members of works councils or trade unions. Hospira believes that it generally has a good relationship with its employees and the works councils and unions that represent them. Governmental Regulation and Other Matters Laws and regulations that significantly affect Hospiras business and operations are described below. Hospira believes that it is in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those described below. Food and Drug Laws Most of Hospiras products and facilities are subject to regulation by the FDA and national and supranational regulatory authorities outside the United States, including Health Canada (Health Products and Foods Branch), the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for Human Use and the Therapeutics Goods Agency in Australia. Hospiras marketed drugs and devices are subject to regulation with respect to, among other matters, manufacturing, post marketing studies in humans, advertising and promotional activities and materials, product labeling, and post marketing surveillance and reporting of adverse events. All aspects of the manufacturing of regulated products are subject to substantial governmental oversight. Facilities used for the production, packaging, labeling, storage and distribution of drugs and medical devices must be registered with the FDA and other regulatory authorities. All manufacturing activities for these products must be conducted in compliance with relevant good manufacturing practices. Hospiras manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic and for cause inspections to verify compliance with good manufacturing practices. New manufacturing facilities or the expansion of existing facilities require inspection and approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities before products produced at that site can enter commercial distribution. If, upon inspection, the FDA or another regulatory agency finds that a manufacturer has failed to comply with good manufacturing practices, it may take various enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning letter or similar correspondence, mandating a product recall, seizing violative product, imposing civil penalties, and referring the matter to a law enforcement authority for criminal prosecution. See "Item IA. Risk Factors Hospira and its suppliers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations and it could be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes." Hospiras sales and marketing activities for regulated products, particularly prescription drugs and certain medical devices, are also highly regulated. Regulatory authorities have the power to mandate 9 the discontinuance of promotional materials, practices and programs if they include information that is beyond the scope of the indications included in the approved or cleared labeling or are not in compliance with specific regulatory requirements. Some of Hospiras drug products are considered controlled substances and are subject to additional regulation by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") and various state and international authorities. These drugs, which have varying degrees of potential for abuse, require specialized controls for production, storage and distribution to prevent theft and diversion. Violation of controlled substance statutes and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties. Hospira has begun investing in the development of generic and or similar versions of currently marketed biologic pharmaceuticals. In November 2005, the European Medicines Agency implemented guidelines directed at the approval pathway for certain generic biologic pharmaceuticals in the European Union. In the United States, there is no specific regulatory pathway for abbreviated approval of the majority of biologic pharmaceuticals. For historical reasons, some biologic pharmaceuticals, such as human insulin and human growth hormones, are approved under the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act (the "FDCA"), while most biologic pharmaceuticals are approved under the Public Health Services Act (the "PHS"). The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, which is generally known as the Hatch Waxman Act, amended the FDCA and established an abbreviated approval pathway for generic versions of referenced drug products approved under FDCA. Although the FDA has been willing to recognize an abbreviated approval pathway for generic versions of biologic pharmaceuticals approved under the FDCA, the FDA has been unwilling to recognize an abbreviated approval pathway for generic versions of biologic pharmaceuticals approved under the PHS. Without a similar "Hatch Waxman" abbreviated approval pathway in the PHS, it is unlikely the FDA will approve a generic, or off patent, version of a referenced biologic pharmaceutical without independent clinical studies that support the products safety and effectiveness. Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws As a manufacturer and distributor of prescription drugs and medical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers, Hospira and its customers are subject to the federal anti kickback statute, which applies to Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state programs. This statute prohibits the solicitation, offer, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for referrals or purchase, or in return for recommending or arranging for the referral or purchase, of goods covered by the programs. The anti kickback law provides a number of exceptions or "safe harbors" for particular types of transactions. Hospira believes that its arrangements with its customers are in material compliance with the anti kickback statute and relevant safe harbors. While Hospira generally does not file claims for reimbursement from government payors, the federal government has asserted theories of liability against manufacturers under the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false claims to Medicare, Medicaid, and other state and federal programs. Hospira believes that its arrangements with and actions in regard to its claims filing customers are in material compliance with the Federal False Claims Act. Many states have similar fraud and abuse laws, and Hospira believes that it is in material compliance with those laws. If it were determined that Hospira was not in compliance with those laws, however, Hospira could be subject to criminal and or civil liability, exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other state and federal programs, or other material adverse effects. Environmental Laws Hospiras manufacturing operations are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. In the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and similar state agencies administer laws which restrict the emission of pollutants into the air, the discharge of pollutants into bodies of 10 water and the disposal of hazardous substances. Violations of these laws can result in significant civil and criminal penalties, and incarceration. The failure to obtain a permit for certain activities may be a violation of environmental law and subject the owner and operator to civil and criminal sanctions. Most environmental agencies also have the power to shut down an operation if it is operating in violation of environmental law. U.S. laws also typically allow citizens to bring private enforcement actions in some situations. Outside the United States, the environmental laws and their enforcement vary, and can be more burdensome. For example, in some European countries, there are environmental taxes and laws requiring manufacturers to take back used products at the end of their useful life. This does not currently have a significant impact on Hospiras products, but such laws are expanding rapidly in Europe. Hospira has management systems in place that are intended to minimize the potential for violation of these laws. Other environmental laws address the contamination of land and groundwater, and require the clean up of such contamination. These laws may apply not only to the owner or operator of an on going business, but also to the owner of land contaminated by a prior owner or operator. In addition, if a parcel is contaminated by the release of a hazardous substance, such as through its historic use as a disposal site, any person or company that has contributed to that contamination, whether or not they have a legal interest in the land, may be subject to a requirement to clean up the parcel. Hospira has been involved with a number of sites at which clean up has been required, some as the sole owner and responsible party, and some as a contributor in conjunction with other parties. The resulting costs tend to be in the form of legal expenses, contributions to the cost of the investigation or clean up of the contaminated sites, or settlement payments to reimburse the government for past remedial work. Safety and Health Laws In the United States, the Occupational Safety and Health Act sets forth requirements for conditions of the workplace. Hospiras operations are subject to many of these requirements, particularly in connection with Hospiras employees use of equipment and chemicals at manufacturing sites that pose a potential health or safety hazard. Violation of these laws can result in civil and criminal penalties. Transportation Laws Hospiras operations include transporting materials defined as "hazardous" over land, over sea and through the air. All of these activities are regulated under laws administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation and similar agencies outside the United States. They include complex requirements for packing, labeling and recordkeeping, and the failure to comply can result in civil and criminal sanctions. Customs Laws The import and export of many goods across national borders are heavily regulated, especially in the United States. As the importer and exporter of many shipments each year, Hospira must comply with all customs regulations and pay fees and duties on certain shipments. Failure to comply can result in significant financial penalties and criminal sanctions. Other Laws The laws of some states and foreign countries regulate the safety of Hospiras products in the marketplace to a greater extent than FDA requirements. For example, under Californias Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, also known as "Proposition 65," the state has established a list of chemicals considered to be hazardous. If, as a result of the sale in California of a product 11 containing a listed chemical, a person is exposed to the chemical, the seller of that product must provide that person with a warning. Monetary penalties for non compliance can be substantial, although there are no criminal sanctions. Hospira is also subject to a variety of state and foreign compliance, disclosure and anti fraud laws, non compliance with which can result in significant financial penalties and criminal sanctions. As Hospira operates internationally, Hospira is subject to U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti boycott laws. Spin Off from Abbott Hospira became an independent public company pursuant to a spin off from Abbott on April 30, 2004. At that time, Hospira and Abbott entered into various agreements, including agreements that defined the parties rights and obligations regarding the spin off, transitional agreements to support Hospiras business and commercial infrastructure, and lease agreements. The parties also agreed that legal title to certain assets and liabilities used in Hospiras international operations would be transferred to Hospira over the two years after the spin off. During 2006, Hospira and Abbott completed the transitional agreements and all of the transfers of such international assets and liabilities. Some commercial agreements relating to the supply of products among the parties remain in place through 2008, and the lease of the North Chicago, Illinois manufacturing facility remains in force through 2014. Except as otherwise agreed by the parties, Hospira assumed all liabilities of Abbott and its subsidiaries to the extent relating to, arising out of or resulting from any matter occurring or existing prior to the spin off to the extent such liabilities relate to, arise out of or result from Hospiras business and assets. The liabilities that Hospira assumed include, among other things, liabilities for any claims or legal proceedings related to products that had been part of Hospiras business, but were discontinued prior to the spin off. However, Hospira did not assume certain liabilities of Abbott or its subsidiaries relating to allegations in pending or future investigations and lawsuits that Hospiras business engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices as described in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings Marketing and Pricing Cases." In addition, Abbott is liable generally for all pre spin off U.S. federal income taxes, foreign taxes and certain state taxes attributable to Hospiras business. Hospira generally is liable for all other taxes attributable to its business. Hospira generally assumed all employment related obligations and liabilities for all U.S. employees who transferred employment to Hospira in connection with the spin off, including salaries and vacation, except as otherwise agreed by the parties. Abbott generally retained responsibility for all employment related obligations and liabilities for U.S. non union employees who terminated their employment or retired prior to the spin off or who otherwise did not transfer employment to Hospira in connection with the spin off, except as otherwise provided in the agreement. Abbott retained liabilities for post retirement medical, dental and life insurance benefits for U.S. non union employees who were retired at the time of the spin off and for those U.S. non union employees who were eligible to retire as of the time of the spin off (commencing on or after their retirement with Hospira), for other medical and dental claims which were incurred by employees of Hospiras business prior to the spin off, and for certain deferred compensation and supplemental pension obligations, subject in all cases to the terms of the spin off and the applicable Abbott plans. Hospira assumed and is liable for the pension and other benefits of Hospiras former union employees at its Ashland, Ohio site. Hospiras obligations with respect to employees outside the United States are governed in accordance with the terms of applicable local plans and local law. 12  Internet Information Copies of Hospiras Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Hospira electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hospiras corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and the charters of its audit, compensation, governance and public policy and science and technology committees are all available in the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) or by sending a request to: Corporate Governance Materials Request, Hospira General Counsel and Secretary, Hospira, Inc., 275 North Field Drive, Dept. NLEG, Bldg. H1, Lake Forest, Illinois 60045.  Item 1A. Risk Factors Hospiras business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. These risks and uncertainties may cause (1) Hospiras sales and results of operations to fluctuate significantly; (2) Hospiras past performance to not be indicative of future performance; and (3) Hospiras actual performance to differ materially from Hospiras expectations or projections. The risks described below apply to Hospiras business after giving effect to the Mayne Pharma acquisition and may not be the only risks Hospira faces. Additional risks that Hospira does not yet know of or that Hospira currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations. Risks Relating to the Mayne Pharma Acquisition and Related Transactions The integration of Mayne Pharma into Hospiras operations will present significant challenges and substantial costs. On February 2, 2007, Hospira completed its acquisition of Mayne Pharma. Hospira faces significant challenges in combining its operations and product lines with Mayne Pharma in a timely and efficient manner. The Mayne Pharma acquisition was the largest in Hospiras history, and successful integration will be important to Hospiras future success. In connection with the integration, Hospira is identifying and eliminating duplicative functions, retaining other key functions and personnel, terminating various contractual arrangements and transitioning its management structure to the new combined company. This integration is complex and time consuming, diverting management away from day to day operations and disrupting ordinary operations. If Hospira does not identify the right functions to be eliminated or retained, it may not realize the expected cost savings and synergies from the acquisition. Hospira may not be able to retain key personnel to efficiently operate the business. Integration of Mayne Pharma will also require Hospira to modify its information technology, operational and financial systems and processes, and cause Mayne Pharmas internal control over financial reporting to comply with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. The integration will result in significant additional expenses, currently estimated to be approximately $95 million to $110 million over the two year period following the acquisition. The substantial majority of such expenses will be incurred in cash. Hospira may incur greater than expected costs in connection with the integration if it experiences difficulties or encounters issues not currently known to it. As Hospira and Mayne Pharma offer some similar products in the same markets, Hospira may not be able to retain all historical sales of those products. The failure to successfully integrate Mayne Pharmas business into Hospiras business and manage the challenges presented by the integration process may prevent Hospira from achieving the anticipated 13 potential benefits of the acquisition, may lead to significant costs and may harm Hospiras future profitability. Hospira has incurred significant indebtedness in order to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition, which may limit its operating flexibility. To finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition, Hospira incurred substantial additional borrowings. As a result, as of December 31, 2007, Hospira had approximately $2,242.9 million of debt. This significant indebtedness will require Hospira to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to servicing its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies, and for general corporate purposes. During 2007, Hospira incurred approximately $134.5 million in interest expense. In 2008, interest expense is expected to be in the range of $110 million to $120 million, assuming Hospira maintains its existing credit ratings. Hospira will also be required to make minimum principal payments under the term loan facility of $44.4 million in 2008 and $55.6 million in 2009. These amounts were reduced as a result of Hospira paying $400.0 million in principal during 2007. In addition, this significant indebtedness has: increased Hospiras vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates; and limited Hospiras flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to its business and industry. The terms of the loan agreements contain restrictions on Hospiras ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create or incur liens; sell all or substantially all of its assets; and consolidate or merge with another entity. Hospira must also maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and is subject to a maximum leverage ratio throughout the life of the loan facilities. If Hospira does not comply with the covenants and restrictions under the agreements governing its indebtedness, Hospira would be in default under the agreements and, if the lenders do not waive such default, the lenders may accelerate repayment of the amounts borrowed. If the loan repayments are accelerated, Hospira may be unable to repay the amounts due to the lenders or obtain additional or replacement financing on favorable terms or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on Hospiras financial condition. Hospiras credit rating has been downgraded by Standard and Poors and future downgrades are possible. A further downgrade will increase Hospiras cost of borrowing. As a result of the Mayne Pharma acquisition, Hospiras credit rating was downgraded from BBB+ to BBB by Standard & Poors. While Moodys maintained Hospiras credit rating at Baa3, which is the lowest investment grade rating, the rating outlook was changed from stable to negative. It is possible that Hospiras credit ratings could be further downgraded and fall below investment grade from both agencies. The credit ratings assigned to Hospiras indebtedness affect its ability to obtain new financing and the cost of financing and credit. The amount of interest payable under Hospiras loan facilities depends on Hospiras credit ratings. If Hospiras credit ratings were to be further downgraded, its borrowing costs would increase, and its access to unsecured debt markets could be limited. 14 Ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The Mayne Pharma acquisition, as well as certain other smaller acquisitions, have increased our intangible assets and goodwill balances. As a result of Hospiras acquisitions, the balances for intangible assets and goodwill have become significant. These balances can be affected by factors, such as changes in business strategies and the impact of restructurings, disposition transactions, and business combinations. As a result of these factors or other events, Hospira may have to impair these assets or change estimated useful lives; which may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras financial position or results of operations. Risks Related to Hospiras Business and Industries Hospira faces significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Hospira competes with many companies ranging from small start up enterprises to multinational companies that are larger than Hospira and have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than Hospira. Hospiras present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by competitors or by the introduction of competing products by one or more of its competitors. Hospira faces strong competition from one or more large competitors in each of its major product lines. To remain competitive and bolster its competitive position, Hospira believes that it must successfully execute various strategic plans, including expanding its research and development initiatives, increasing its international presence and lowering its operating costs. These initiatives may result in significant expenditures and ultimately may not be successful. Many of Hospiras products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights and are therefore not entitled to market exclusivity. In the absence of patent protection, the introduction of competing products is limited primarily by market considerations and the need to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, which may not keep competitors from providing competitive products. Hospiras failure to compete effectively could cause it to lose market share to its competitors and or have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. If Hospira does not introduce new products in a timely manner, its products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy its products, and its sales and profitability may decline. Demand for Hospiras products may change in ways Hospira may not anticipate because of evolving customer needs, the introduction by others of new products and technologies, and evolving industry standards. A key component to Hospiras strategy is effective execution of its research and development activities, in part to increase the breadth of Hospiras specialty injectable product portfolio and to develop new and improved medication delivery systems products. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, Hospiras products may become obsolete over time, in which case its sales and operating results would suffer. If Hospira does not continue to develop generic injectable pharmaceuticals in a timely manner, its competitors may develop generic injectable pharmaceutical product portfolios that are more competitive than Hospiras, and Hospira could find it more difficult to renew or expand GPO pricing agreements or to obtain new agreements. The ability to launch a generic pharmaceutical product at or before generic market formation is important to that products profitability. Prices for generic products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following market formation, as additional companies receive 15 approvals to market that product and competition intensifies. If a company can be "first to market," such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved. With increasing competition in the generic product market, the timeliness with which Hospira can market new generic products will increase in importance. If Hospira is unable to bring its generic products to market on a timely basis, and secure "first to market" positions, its sales and profitability could be harmed. Hospira faces similar risks if it does not introduce new versions or upgrades to its medication management systems. Innovations generally require a substantial investment in product development before Hospira can determine their commercial viability, and Hospira may not have the financial resources necessary to fund these innovations. Even if Hospira succeeds in creating new product candidates from these innovations, such innovations may still fail to result in commercially successful products. It may take more time and effort for Hospira to sell and implement newer technology medication management systems to its customers. The success of Hospiras new product offerings and enhancements will depend on several factors, including Hospiras ability to: properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, including increasing demand for lower cost products that help improve safety and productivity; innovate, develop, manufacture and implement new products and technologies in an economical and timely manner; differentiate its offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; meet safety and efficacy requirements and other regulatory requirements of government agencies; avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties; and obtain favorable pricing on such products. Even if Hospira is able to successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations of its existing products, these new products or enhancements or new generations of its existing products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, the need for regulatory clearance and uncertainty over third party reimbursement. Failure to effectively manage efforts under product collaboration agreements may harm Hospiras business and profitability. In many cases, Hospira collaborates with other companies for the development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of new products. For example, Hospira has entered into collaboration agreements relating to the long term development and commercialization of biosimilar products, which Hospira views as an important long term opportunity for its specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line. Hospiras ability to benefit from these arrangements will depend on its ability to successfully manage these arrangements and the performance of the other parties to these arrangements. Hospira and the other parties to these arrangements may not efficiently work together, leading to higher than anticipated costs and or delays in important activities under the arrangements. 16 The other parties to these arrangements may not devote the resources that Hospira requires for the arrangement to be successful. These arrangements are often governed by complex agreements that may be subject to differing interpretations by the parties, which may result in disputes. These factors are often beyond the control of Hospira, and could harm Hospiras sales, product development efforts and profitability. Hospira is subject to the cost containment efforts of hospital buying groups, wholesalers, distributors, third party payors and government organizations. Many existing and potential customers for Hospiras products have combined to form GPOs, and integrated delivery networks ("IDNs") in an effort to lower costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPOs or an IDNs affiliated hospitals and other members. Failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements could cause Hospira to lose market share to its competitors and or have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. Hospira also relies significantly on drug wholesalers to assist in the distribution of its generic injectable pharmaceutical products. In general, drug wholesalers have been attempting to implement, and unilaterally enforce, a fee for service model for the distribution of such products. While Hospira has contracts in place with its major drug wholesalers, if Hospira is required to pay fees not contemplated by its existing agreements, Hospira will incur additional costs to distribute its products, which may harm Hospiras profitability. Hospiras products and services are sold to hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third party payors, such as government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. These third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement, if any, may be decreased in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payors may otherwise adversely affect the demand for and price levels of Hospiras products, which could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. In markets outside the United States, Hospiras business has experienced downward pressure on product pricing as a result of the concentrated buying power of governments as principal customers and the use of bid and tender sales methods whereby Hospira is required to submit a bid for the sale of its products. Hospiras failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability in these markets. If Hospira is unable to maintain its GPO pricing agreements, sales of its products could decline. A small number of GPOs influence a majority of sales to Hospiras hospital customers in the U.S. GPOs negotiate pricing agreements with providers of medical products, and these negotiated prices are made available to members of GPOs. If Hospira does not have a pricing agreement with a GPO, it may be more difficult for Hospira to sell its products to the GPOs members. Hospira has pricing agreements covering certain products with the major GPOs in the United States, including Amerinet, Inc.; Broadlane Inc.; HealthTrust Purchasing Group L.P.; MedAssets Inc.; Novation, LLC; PACT, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. It will be important for Hospira to continue to maintain pricing arrangements with major GPOs. In order to maintain these relationships, Hospira must offer a reliable supply of high quality, regulatory compliant products. Hospira also needs to maintain a broad product line and be price competitive. Several GPO contracts are up for renewal or extension each year. If Hospira is unable to renew or extend one or more of those contracts, and 17 cannot replace lost business, Hospiras sales and profitability will decline. There has been consolidation among major GPOs, and further consolidation may occur. The effect of consolidation is uncertain, and consolidation may impair Hospiras ability to contract with GPOs in the future. The GPOs also have a variety of business relationships with Hospiras competitors and may decide to enter into pricing agreements for, or otherwise prefer, products other than Hospiras. While GPOs negotiate incentives for members to purchase specified products from a given manufacturer or distributor, GPO pricing agreements allow customers to choose between the products covered by the arrangement and another manufacturers products, whether or not purchased under a negotiated pricing agreement. As a result, Hospira may face competition for its products even within the context of its GPO pricing agreements. Although some of Hospiras GPO pricing agreements may not be terminated without breach until the end of their contracted term, others may be terminated on 60 or 90 days notice. If Hospira is unable to establish or maintain arrangements with key GPOs and customers, or if GPO members alter their preference for Hospiras products in favor of those of Hospiras competitors, Hospiras sales and profitability could decline. Hospira and its suppliers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and it could be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. Hospiras products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain governmental authorities outside the United States, can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. The U.S. government and various states in the U.S. are considering or have adopted laws requiring pedigrees for healthcare products that are designed to reduce or prevent counterfeiting. The implementation of a pedigree system may lead to significant costs and may harm future profitability. If Hospira is unable to develop and implement a pedigree system as required by an existing law or any laws which are subsequently enacted, this could disrupt Hospiras business and result in a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales, profitability and financial condition. The FDA, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, recently has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which may delay approvals of new generic drug products. FDA officials have announced plans to propose user fees in connection with applications by generic drug producers like Hospira for approval of new generic drug products. If enacted, user fees would increase Hospiras product development costs. Existing regulations may also delay or prevent generic drug producers such as Hospira from offering certain products, such as biosimilar products, in key territories, which could harm Hospiras ability to grow its business. If a clear regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilar products is not fully developed in the United States and other jurisdictions, Hospira may not be able to generate future sales of such products in those jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of its investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for product candidates could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs. Hospira may not be able to remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other material regulatory requirements once it has obtained clearance or approval for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts, some of which 18 are related to manufacturing quality concerns. Hospira may be required by regulatory authorities, or determine on its own, to temporarily cease production and sale of certain products to resolve manufacturing and product quality concerns, which would harm Hospiras sales, margins and profitability in the affected period(s) and may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business. Many of Hospiras facilities and procedures and those of its suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. For example, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with detailed regulations governing current good manufacturing practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance. Hospira must incur expense and spend time and effort in the areas of production, safety, quality control and quality assurance to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. In the past, Hospiras business has received notices alleging violations of these regulations, and Hospira has modified its practices in response to these notices. Hospiras manufacturing facilities and those of its suppliers could be subject to significant adverse regulatory actions in the future. These possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of its products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Hospiras business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of its products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of its facilities while Hospira remedies the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any adverse regulatory action, or action taken by Hospira to maintain appropriate regulatory compliance, could disrupt Hospiras business and have a material adverse effect on its sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, adverse regulatory action with respect to any Hospira product, operating procedure or manufacturing facility could materially harm Hospiras reputation in the marketplace. The manufacture of Hospiras products is highly exacting and complex, and if Hospira or its suppliers encounter problems manufacturing, storing or distributing products, Hospiras business could suffer. The manufacture of Hospiras products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements governing the manufacture of drugs and medical devices. Problems may arise during manufacturing, storage or distribution of Hospiras products for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production, storage or distribution of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost sales, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. Problems with respect to the manufacture, storage or distribution of its products could materially disrupt Hospiras business and harm its sales and profitability. Hospira is experiencing higher costs to produce its products as a result of rising oil and gas prices. Hospira uses resins and other petroleum based materials as raw materials in many of its products. Prices of oil and gas also affect significantly Hospiras costs for freight and utilities. Oil and gas prices are volatile and fluctuated significantly in 2007, and resulted in higher costs to Hospira to produce and distribute its products during certain periods. If costs increase and Hospira is unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions, Hospira could experience lower margins and profitability. 19 Hospira depends on third parties to supply raw materials and other components and may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which could limit Hospiras ability to manufacture products on a timely basis and could harm its profitability. The manufacture of Hospiras products requires raw materials and other components that must meet stringent FDA and other regulatory requirements. Some of these raw materials and other components are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, the LifeShield&reg; CLAVE&reg; and MicroCLAVE&reg; connector products, which are components of administration sets that represented approximately 12% of Hospiras 2007 sales, rely on proprietary components that are available exclusively from ICU Medical. CLAVE&reg; and MicroCLAVE&reg; are registered trademarks of ICU Medical. In addition, Hospira purchases from single sources certain compounding material, polyvinyl chloride resin and laminate film components for Hospiras production of certain flexible bags that it uses with its intravenous and pre mixed solutions, as well as rubber components that it uses with some of its injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira also obtains from single sources certain active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. Identifying alternative suppliers and obtaining approval to change or substitute a raw material or component, or the supplier of a finished product, raw material or component, can be time consuming and expensive, as testing, validation and regulatory approval are necessary. In the past, Hospiras business has experienced shortages in some of the raw materials and components of its products. Continuous supply of petroleum based products is especially risky due to the limited number of capable suppliers, limited production capacity and the effect of natural disasters. If suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or if supply is otherwise disrupted, including by suppliers exiting the market, the manufacture and sale of Hospiras products may be disrupted, and its sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Hospiras cost reduction activities have resulted in significant charges and cash expenditures. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended cost savings. Hospiras strategy, in part, relies on the establishment of a low cost operating infrastructure. In order to realize potential savings on future manufacturing and other operating costs, since 2005, Hospira has taken various actions to dispose of, or close, certain manufacturing facilities. These actions included the sale of its Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility to ICU Medical and an agreement to purchase critical care products produced there from ICU Medical; the closure of its Donegal, Ireland facility and its Ashland, Ohio manufacturing facility; the planned closure of its Montreal, Canada manufacturing facility; and the planned accelerated production phase out at its North Chicago, Illinois manufacturing facility, which is leased from Abbott. These actions have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, significant charges to Hospiras results of operations and cash expenditures. Future cost reduction activities, if taken, may result in additional charges and cash expenditures, which may be material. Hospira expects to relocate some of the production at the affected facilities to other Hospira facilities. Relocation of production to other facilities is a complex process requiring, among other things, re registration of products with regulatory authorities and modification of the other facilities to accommodate the production. If Hospira does not successfully manage such relocation, its manufacturing operations and business could be disrupted and it may incur more costs than anticipated in connection with these activities. Manufacturing at other Hospira facilities, or outsourcing manufacturing to third parties, may not result in the cost savings that Hospira expects. If Hospira does not realize expected savings from its cost reduction efforts, its profitability may be harmed. Hospira is seeking third party contract manufacturing to support development of the API for its early stage biosimilar projects. If Hospira is not successful in securing contract manufacturing services, 20 Hospira will need to incur significant costs to construct its own manufacturing facilities. In any event, from a longer term perspective, Hospira believes that it may be necessary to become fundamental in biosimilar API manufacturing to be competitive in this product market. Hospiras manufacturing capacity could limit its ability to expand its business without significant capital investment. Although Hospira believes that it has adequate manufacturing capacity for its primary products, it may need to invest substantial capital resources to expand its manufacturing capacity if demand for its products increases significantly or if it is successful in obtaining significant additional customers for its injectable pharmaceuticals contract manufacturing services business. Hospira may not be able to complete any such expansion projects in a timely manner or on a cost effective basis, and may not realize the desired benefits of any such expansion. As a result of cost reduction efforts, Hospira has announced the planned closing of, or has sold, certain of its facilities. While Hospira believes it will have available manufacturing capacity to absorb, or the ability to outsource, the production at these facilities, there may be less available capacity at Hospiras facilities. If Hospira experiences an interruption in manufacturing at any of its primary manufacturing facilities, it may not be able to produce sufficient products for its customers. As a result, Hospiras sales, margins and profitability may be materially harmed. Hospira relies on the performance of its information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on Hospiras business and performance. Hospira operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. These systems are vulnerable to interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction and other such events, which are beyond Hospiras control. Systems interruptions could reduce Hospiras ability to manufacture its products, and could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras operations and financial performance. Integration of Hospiras systems with Mayne Pharmas systems may increase the chance of systems interruptions. The level of Hospiras protection and disaster recovery capability varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. Hospira may continue to acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, or form alliances, which may not be successful. As part of Hospiras business strategy, it may continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technology licensing arrangements. Hospira also may pursue strategic alliances to expand its product offerings and geographic presence. Hospira may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost effective basis or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement or strategic alliance. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial and sales and marketing resources, may compete with Hospira for these strategic opportunities. Further, if Hospira is successful in securing such opportunities, the products and technologies that Hospira acquires may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. In addition, Hospira may enter markets in which it has no or limited prior experience. Hospira conducts sales activity outside of the United States and is subject to additional business risks that may cause its sales and profitability to decline. Because Hospiras products are sold outside the United States, its business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. With the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, which derived a 21 substantial majority of its revenues outside the United States, a significantly higher percentage of sales in 2007 were generated outside the United States, and should continue in future years. Hospira may continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales of products outside the United States, which could expose Hospira to greater risks. The risks associated with Hospiras operations outside the United States include: changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs; multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change, which may delay or deter Hospiras international product commercialization efforts; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing international operations; differing labor regulations or work stoppages or strikes at our union facilities; complying with U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti boycott laws; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; political and economic instability; and diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States. Hospira operates in many countries outside the United States through distributors. Its success will depend on the efforts and performance of such distributors, which is beyond Hospiras control. These risks could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras ability to distribute and sell its products in markets outside the United States and on Hospiras profitability. Hospira is subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability and require Hospira to change its business practices and restrict its operations in the future. Hospiras industry is subject to various national, supranational, federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in national, federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs and health programs outside the United States. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Hospira to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Hospiras business and result in a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales, profitability and financial condition. 22  State and federal investigations and existing and future lawsuits relating to the alleged reporting of false or misleading pricing information in connection with Medicare and Medicaid programs could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business, profitability and financial condition. Various state and federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice and various state attorneys general, are investigating a number of pharmaceutical companies, including Abbott, for allegedly engaging in improper marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products, including practices relating to average wholesale price ("AWP"). These are civil investigations that are seeking to identify the practices and determine whether those practices violated any laws, including federal and state false claims acts, or constituted fraud in connection with the Medicare and or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties. In addition, Abbott is a defendant in a number of purported class actions on behalf of individuals or entities, including healthcare insurers and other third party payors, that allege generally that Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false or misleading pricing information in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs. Since the spin off, Hospira has been named as a defendant in some of these suits, as further described in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings Marketing and Pricing Cases." Hospiras products are involved in these investigations and lawsuits. There may be additional investigations or lawsuits, or additional claims in existing investigations or lawsuits, initiated with respect to these matters in the future. Hospira may be named as a subject or defendant in more of these investigations or lawsuits. Abbott will indemnify Hospira for liabilities associated with pending or future AWP investigations and lawsuits only to the extent that they are of the same nature as the lawsuits and investigations that existed against Abbott as of the spin off date and relate to the sale of Hospira products prior to the spin off. Hospira will assume any other losses that may result from these investigations and lawsuits related to Hospiras products. Hospira has not established any reserves related to these matters, and Hospira does not currently believe insurance coverage will be available for any resulting losses. These investigations and lawsuits could result in changes to Hospiras business practices or pricing policies, civil or criminal monetary damages, penalties or fines, imprisonment and or exclusion of Hospiras products from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business, profitability and financial condition. Income taxes can have an unpredictable effect on Hospiras results of operations and result in greater than anticipated liabilities. Hospira is subject to income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions, and its tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. Because Hospiras income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions during that period, which is inherently uncertain, its income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted. Hospira is the beneficiary of tax exemptions in certain jurisdictions outside the United States, where a portion of its income is sourced. These tax exemptions have a significant impact on reducing Hospiras overall effective tax rate. If Hospira is unable to maintain these tax exemptions, Hospiras future profitability may be reduced. Changes in laws or governmental policies can affect the availability of these exemptions. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, positions taken by Hospira are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Although Hospira believes its tax provisions and related liability balances are reasonable, 23 the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect its financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Hospira may incur product liability losses and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. Hospiras business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of drugs and medical devices and products. In the ordinary course of business, Hospira is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Hospira is responsible for all liabilities, including liabilities for claims and lawsuits, related to its business, whether they arose before or after the spin off, other than certain liabilities relating to allegations that it engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices in connection with federal, state or private reimbursement for its products. As part of Hospiras risk management policy, Hospira carries third party product liability insurance coverage, which includes a substantial retention or deductible that provides that Hospira will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of that retention or deductible. To the extent that any losses are within these retentions or deductibles, Hospira will be responsible for the administration and payment of these losses. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. If Hospira is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its business and prospects could be harmed. Hospira relies on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, continuing technological innovation and, in some cases, patent, trademark and service mark protection to preserve its competitive position. A failure to protect Hospiras intellectual property could harm its business and prospects, and its efforts to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate. Most of Hospiras products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights, and have limited or no market exclusivity. Patent filings by third parties could render Hospiras intellectual property less valuable. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in certain countries outside the United States, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also harm sales of Hospiras products by designing products that mirror the capabilities of those products or technology without infringing Hospiras intellectual property rights. If Hospira does not obtain sufficient international protection for its intellectual property, Hospiras competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit its growth and future sales. If Hospira infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties, Hospira may face legal action, increased costs and delays in marketing new products. Hospira seeks to launch generic pharmaceutical products either where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid or where products do not infringe the patents of others. To achieve a "first to market" position for generic pharmaceutical products, Hospira may take action, such as litigation, to seek to assert that its products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. These actions may result in increased litigation, which could be costly and time consuming, and which may not be successful. Hospira and Mayne Pharma have made abbreviated new drug applications and certifications (known as "paragraph IV certifications" in the U.S.) that the relevant patents for existing products would not be infringed by a Hospira product, or were invalid or unenforceable, in the United States and equivalent 24 filings in Canada. Claims filed by innovators challenging these paragraph IV certifications may delay or prevent the launch of the relevant products and result in additional costs. Third parties may claim that Hospiras products are infringing their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could be costly and time consuming and might require Hospira to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, if Hospira is able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms or at all. Hospira also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing it from manufacturing, selling or using some of its products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. Hospira has outstanding stock options, which may dilute the ownership of its existing shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had approximately 13.1 million outstanding stock options and the ability to award approximately 7.7 million additional share based awards under its equity compensation plan. As of December 31, 2007, Hospiras outstanding option awards had a weighted average exercise price of $34.84, which was below the market price of Hospiras stock at that time. Exercises of stock options at a price below the market price of Hospiras stock will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.  Item 2. Properties The locations and uses of Hospiras principal manufacturing, administrative, and research and development ("R&D") properties as of December 31, 2007 are as follows: Location Use Owned/Leased Adelaide, South Australia, Australia R&D Owned Austin, Texas Manufacturing Owned Buffalo, New York Manufacturing Owned Boulder, Colorado R&D/Manufacturing Leased Clayton, North Carolina R&D/Manufacturing Owned Finisklin, Sligo, Ireland Manufacturing Leased La Aurora, Costa Rica Manufacturing Owned Lake Forest, Illinois* Corporate Headquarters/R&D Owned/Leased Liscate, Italy Manufacturing Owned McPherson, Kansas Manufacturing Owned Montreal, Quebec, Canada Manufacturing Leased Morgan Hill, California R&D/Manufacturing Owned Mulgrave, Victoria, Australia R&D/Manufacturing Owned North Chicago, Illinois Manufacturing Leased Rocky Mount, North Carolina Manufacturing Owned Salisbury, South Australia, Australia R&D/Manufacturing Owned San Cristobal, Dominican Republic Manufacturing Owned San Diego, California R&D Leased Wasserburg, Germany Manufacturing Owned *The Lake Forest facilities consist of four buildings, three of which are owned and one of which is leased, and expires in 2016. 25 The Boulder, Colorado lease expires in 2011; Finisklin, Sligo, Ireland lease expires in 2013; the Montreal, Canada lease expires in 2008; the North Chicago, Illinois lease between Abbott and Hospira expires in 2014; and the San Diego, California lease expires in 2014. Hospira closed its Donegal, Ireland facility in late 2006 and closed its Ashland, Ohio facility late in 2007. Hospira expects to close the Montreal facility by the end of the first half of 2008. Hospira expects to phase out production at the North Chicago, Illinois facility on an accelerated time frame, with most of the phase out occurring by early 2010. Production of the primary products at these facilities is expected to move to other Hospira facilities and or be outsourced to third party suppliers. In 2006, Hospira began a $60 million expansion of manufacturing capacity at the McPherson, Kansas facility, in part to accommodate some of the production from the North Chicago, Illinois facility. The expansion neared completion in 2007. Hospira believes that its facilities and equipment are in good operating condition and are well maintained. Hospira believes that it has adequate capacity to meet its current business needs. As a result of the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, Hospira has a joint venture with Cadila Healthcare Limited, an Indian pharmaceutical company, which is in the process of qualifying a manufacturing facility in India to produce injectable cytotoxic drugs.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings Hospira, Abbott, or in some instances both, are involved in various claims and legal proceedings, including product liability claims and proceedings related to Hospiras business. Various state and federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice and various state attorneys general, are investigating a number of pharmaceutical companies, including Abbott, for allegedly engaging in improper marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products, including practices relating to AWP. These are civil investigations that are seeking to identify the practices and determine whether those practices violated any laws, including federal and state false claims acts, or constituted fraud in connection with the Medicare and or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties. In addition, Abbott is a defendant in a number of purported class actions on behalf of individuals or entities, including healthcare insurers and other third party payors, that allege generally that Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false or misleading pricing information in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs. Many of the products involved in these investigations and lawsuits are Hospira products. Hospira is cooperating with the authorities in these investigations. There may be additional investigations or lawsuits, or additional claims in the existing investigations or lawsuits, initiated with respect to these matters in the future. Hospira cannot be certain that it will not be named as a subject or defendant in these investigations or lawsuits. Hospira is a named defendant in two such lawsuits: The State of Texas ex rel. Ven A Care of the Florida Keys, Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories Inc., Abbott Laboratories and Hospira, Inc, Case No. GV 04 001286, pending in the District Court of Travis County, Texas and State of Hawaii v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al., Case No. 06 1 0720 04, pending in the Circuit Court of the First Circuit, Hawaii. Hospira denies all material allegations asserted against it in these two lawsuits. Hospira has been dismissed as a defendant in the case, United States of America ex rel. Ven A Care of the Florida Keys, Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al Case No. 95 1354, pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Abbott will indemnify Hospira for liabilities associated with pending or future AWP investigations and lawsuits only to the extent that they are of the same nature as the lawsuits and investigations that existed against Abbott as of the spin off date and relate to the sale of Hospira products prior to the spin off. Hospira will assume any other losses that may result from these investigations and lawsuits related to Hospiras products, including any losses associated with post spin off activities. These investigations and lawsuits could result in changes to Hospiras business practices or pricing policies, civil or criminal monetary damages, penalties or fines, imprisonment and or exclusion of Hospira 26 products from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, profitability and financial condition. Hospira has been named as a defendant in a lawsuit alleging generally that the spin off of Hospira from Abbott Laboratories interfered with employee benefits in violation of the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). The lawsuit was filed on November 8, 2004 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, and is captioned: Myla Nauman, Jane Roller and Michael Loughery v. Abbott Laboratories and Hospira, Inc. On November 18, 2005, the complaint was amended to assert an additional claim against Abbott and Hospira for breach of fiduciary duty under ERISA. Hospira has been dismissed as a defendant with respect to the fiduciary duty claim. By Order dated December 30, 2005, the Court granted class action status to the lawsuit. As to the sole claim against Hospira in the original complaint, the court certified a class defined as: "all employees of Abbott who were participants in the Abbott Benefit Plans and whose employment with Abbott was terminated between August 22, 2003 and April 30, 2004, as a result of the spin off of the HPD/creation of Hospira announced by Abbott on August 22, 2003, and who were eligible for retirement under the Abbott Benefit Plans on the date of their terminations." Hospira denies all material allegations asserted against it in the complaint. On August 12, 2005, Retractable Technologies, Inc. ("RTI") filed a lawsuit against Abbott Laboratories, Inc. alleging breach of contract and fraud in connection with a National Marketing and Distribution Agreement ("Agreement") between Abbott and RTI signed in May 2000. Retractable Technologies, Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Case No. 505CV157, pending in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. RTI purported to terminate the contract for breach in 2003. The lawsuit alleges that Abbott misled RTI and breached the Agreement in connection with Abbotts marketing efforts. RTI seeks unspecified monetary damages as well as punitive damages. Hospira has conditionally agreed to defend and indemnify Abbott in connection with this lawsuit, which involves a contract carried out by Abbotts former Hospital Products Division. Abbott denies all material allegations in the complaint. Abbott intends to pursue claims against RTI for breach of the Agreement in arbitration or in federal court. Hospira is entitled, pursuant to its agreements with Abbott, to any amounts recovered due to RTIs breach of the Agreement. On February 9, 2007, the court ruled that RTI could not be compelled to arbitrate its claims, but granted Abbott leave to appeal the ruling. Abbott has appealed the ruling that RTI is not required to arbitrate its claims. Hospiras product liability claim exposures are evaluated each reporting period. Hospiras reserves, which are not material, are the best estimate of loss, as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." Based upon information that is currently available, management believes that the likelihood of a material loss in excess of recorded amounts is remote. Additional legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by Hospira. It is not feasible to predict the outcome of such proceedings with certainty and there can be no assurance that their ultimate disposition will not have a material adverse effect on Hospiras financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 27   PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Common Stock Hospiras common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "HSP." The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for Hospiras common stock on the NYSE for each period indicated. Market Price Per Share 2007 2006 For the quarter ended: High Low High Low March 31 $ 40.90 $ 33.85 $ 47.63 $ 39.10 June 30 $ 41.88 $ 38.32 $ 45.13 $ 36.94 September 30 $ 41.45 $ 37.61 $ 43.88 $ 34.35 December 31 $ 44.51 $ 39.40 $ 38.64 $ 31.17 As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had approximately 41,900 shareholders of record. Hospira has not paid dividends on its common stock. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table gives information, as of December 31, 2007, about Hospiras common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options and other equity awards under the Hospira 2004 Long Term Stock Incentive Plan, which is the only equity compensation plan pursuant to which Hospiras equity securities are authorized for issuance. Plan Category Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (#) Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights ($) Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in the first column) (#) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 13,133,815 $ 34.84 7,657,395 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders Total 13,133,815 $ 34.84 7,657,395 28 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Hospira of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(2) October 1 October 31, 2007 3,826 $ 41.34 $ 100,233,606 November 1 November 30, 2007 26,380 $ 40.86 $ 100,233,606 December 1 December 31, 2007 42,751 $ 43.38 $ 100,233,606 Total 72,957 $ 42.36 $ 100,233,606 (1)These shares represent the shares deemed surrendered to Hospira to pay the exercise price and to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the exercise of employee stock options. (2)In February 2006, Hospiras board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $400.0 million of Hospiras common stock in accordance with Rule 10b 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The repurchase of shares commenced in early March 2006. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had purchased 7,584,400 shares for $299.8 million in aggregate under the 2006 board authorization, all of which were purchased during 2006. 29 Performance Graph The following graph compares the performance of Hospira common stock for the periods indicated with the performance of the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Health Care Index.  Comparison of Cumulative Total Return Assumes $100 was invested on May 3, 2004 (the first date Hospira common stock was traded on the NYSE) in Hospira common stock and each index. Values are as of the close of the U.S. stock markets on December 31, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, and assume dividends are reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared or paid on Hospira common stock. Returns over the indicated period may not be indicative of future returns. 30  Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth Hospiras selected financial information derived from its audited consolidated financial statements as of, and for the years ended, December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003. For all periods prior to April 30, 2004, the date of Hospiras spin off from Abbott, Hospira operated as a part of Abbott. Hospiras consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004, reflect Hospiras operations as a separate, stand alone entity subsequent to the spin off combined with the historical operations of Hospira when it operated as part of Abbott prior to the spin off. The historical financial information presented is not indicative of the results of operations or financial position that would have been obtained if Hospira had been an independent company during all periods shown or of future performance as an independent company. The selected financial information should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Hospiras audited financial statements included in Item 8. For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 3,436,238 $ 2,688,505 $ 2,626,696 $ 2,645,036 $ 2,623,737 Gross profit 1,173,923 939,243 849,056 786,601 701,051 Income from operations(1) 302,626 339,584 336,615 427,650 360,375 Income before income taxes 187,786 324,697 322,075 411,520 359,121 Net income $ 136,758 $ 237,679 $ 235,638 $ 301,552 $ 260,363 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 0.87 $ 1.51 $ 1.48 $ 1.93 $ 1.67 Diluted $ 0.85 $ 1.48 $ 1.46 $ 1.92 $ 1.67 Weighted average common shares outstanding (in thousands): Basic(2) 156,919 157,368 159,275 156,187 156,043 Diluted(2) 160,164 160,424 161,634 157,160 156,043 (1)Includes acquired in process research and development charge of $88.0 million and $10.0 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and post retirement medical and dental curtailment benefit expense of $64.6 million in 2004. (2)For periods prior to April 30, 2004, basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the number of shares of Hospira common stock outstanding on April 30, 2004, the date on which the Hospira common stock was distributed to the shareholders of Abbott in connection with the spin off. December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in thousands) Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 5,084,666 $ 2,847,587 $ 2,789,182 $ 2,342,790 $ 2,250,163 Long term debt $ 2,184,385 $ 702,044 $ 695,285 $ 698,841 $ 31  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company that develops, manufactures and markets products that help improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. Hospiras portfolio includes one of the industrys broadest lines of generic acute care and oncology injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals; and integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities. In February 2007, Hospira acquired Mayne Pharma to increase its global presence in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals. Transition from Abbott Hospira became a separate public company pursuant to a spin off from Abbott on April 30, 2004 (the "spin off date"). In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. During the transition period, these operations and assets were used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira was subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira was dependent on Abbotts international infrastructure until such legal transfers occurred in each international country. These transfers were completed in 2006. Hospira and Abbott entered into various manufacture and supply agreements prior to the spin off under which Hospira supplies certain products to Abbott that it manufactured prior to the spin off. These agreements had an initial two year term (originally scheduled to expire in April 2006), subject to being extended by Abbott for an additional two year term under substantially similar contractual provisions. Some of these agreements terminated in 2006, resulting in lower sales to Abbott during 2006 and 2007. Cost Reduction Activities As part of its strategy to improve margins and cash flows, beginning in 2005, Hospira has taken a number of actions to reduce operating costs and optimize its manufacturing capabilities and capacity. In May 2005, to reduce its costs to produce critical care products, Hospira completed a strategic manufacturing, commercialization and development agreement with ICU Medical and sold its Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility and related equipment and inventory to ICU Medical. In connection with these transactions, during 2005, Hospira recorded an impairment charge of $2.4 million and a loss of $13.4 million, which was Hospiras best estimate of the cost of certain obligations that Hospira was required to reimburse to ICU Medical over the 24 month period after closing. Both the impairment and the loss related to obligations assumed were recorded in cost of products sold. During 2007 and 2006, Hospira reduced its liability by $1.6 million and $6.8 million, respectively, due to a change in ICU Medicals strategy for the manufacturing facility that reduced Hospiras related obligation. In August 2005, Hospira announced plans to close its manufacturing plant in Donegal, Ireland and closed the facility late in 2006. Products produced at the Donegal plant have been moved to Hospira facilities primarily in Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic. At the time of the announcement, Hospira expected to incur $30 million to $40 million of pre tax charges relating to the plant closure. During 2005, 2006 and 2007, Hospira incurred $8.5 million, $21.9 million and $0.7 million of these charges, respectively, which are reported in cost of products sold. The costs consist primarily of severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the building and certain equipment, and other exit costs. For further details regarding the 32 financial impact of this plant closure, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In February 2006, Hospira announced plans to close manufacturing plants in Ashland, Ohio and Montreal, Canada over the subsequent 18 to 28 months, respectively, and also provided a timeline for phasing out production at a facility in Abbotts North Chicago, Illinois campus, where it has leased space from its former parent company since the spin off in April 2004. Hospira intends to transition out of this facility in advance of the leases expiration in 2014, with a majority of the product transfers occurring over the four years following the announcement. Hospira will transfer production of the primary products from these facilities to other Hospira facilities and will outsource certain product components to third party suppliers. As of December 31, 2007, the Ashland, Ohio manufacturing plant was closed and Hospira expects to close the Montreal, Canada manufacturing plant by the end of the first half of 2008. The aggregate charges that Hospira will incur related to the plant closings are expected to be in the range of approximately $95 million to $110 million on a pre tax basis, of which approximately $45 million to $55 million are expected to be reported as restructuring charges. The restructuring costs consist primarily of costs related to severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the buildings and certain equipment, and other exit costs. The remaining charges relate to the relocation of production. During 2007 and 2006, Hospira incurred $13.6 million and $21.7 million of restructuring charges, respectively, which are recorded in cost of products sold. For further details regarding the financial impact of these plant closures, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. These cost reduction activities involve risks and uncertainties as relocating or outsourcing production is a complex process. Hospira may incur more charges than estimated and may not realize the expected cost savings on its planned time frame or at all. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Hospiras Business and Industry Hospiras cost reduction activities have resulted in significant charges. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended cost savings." Acquisition of Mayne Pharma On February 2, 2007, Hospira completed its acquisition of Mayne Pharma for $2,055.0 million. As Mayne Pharma has strong market positions in Europe and Australia and a significant commercial infrastructure outside the United States, the acquisition has substantially increased Hospiras international presence. The acquisition has also broadened Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceuticals product line. The results of operations of Mayne Pharma are included in Hospiras results for periods on and after February 2, 2007, which has affected comparability of the financial statements for the periods presented in this report and will affect comparability in future periods. For 2007, sales of Mayne Pharma products, which are principally specialty injectable pharmaceutical products, are reported as a separate product line within each of Hospiras reportable segments. In connection with the acquisition, Hospira recorded $137.9 million of charges relating to purchase accounting during 2007, including $84.8 million of acquired in process research and development, all of which was recorded in the first quarter, and $53.1 million of inventory step up charges, of which $21.4 million was expensed in the first quarter and $31.7 million was expensed in the second quarter. Hospira also recorded $518.2 million of intangible assets in connection with the acquisition, which will be amortized over their useful lives (which have a weighted average life of 10 years). For further details regarding these charges, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In connection with the integration of Mayne Pharma into its operations, Hospira expects to incur approximately $95 million to $110 million of cash expenditures for the two year period after the closing, of which $60 million to $75 million will be recorded as expense and the remainder relates to purchase accounting items and capital projects. These expenses relate to the closure of facilities, 33 termination of lease agreements and employee related benefit arrangements during the two year period after the closing. Approximately $73.3 million of cash expenditures and $43.8 million of such expenses were recorded during 2007. In addition to integration expenses, Hospira recorded other acquisition related expenses of $6.5 million in 2007. For further details regarding these expenses, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. The total purchase price of $2,055.0 million is comprised of $2,042.3 million of cash purchase price and $12.7 million of direct acquisition costs. On February 1, 2007, Hospira incurred $1,925.0 million of bank debt to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The remainder of the purchase price was funded with cash on hand. The bank facilities included a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility and a $1,425.0 million one year bridge loan facility. The bridge loan facility was completely refinanced on March 23, 2007 through the issuance of long term debt securities. For further details, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. On an ongoing basis, Hospira will continue to incur significantly greater interest expense than it incurred in prior periods, and will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to servicing its debt. Please refer to "Liquidity and Capital Resources Debt and Capital" later in this Item 7 for further details. The acquisition of Mayne Pharma is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including risks relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma and risks relating to our incurring substantial indebtedness in connection with the acquisition. Please see "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Mayne Pharma Acquisition and Related Transactions." Other Factors Manufacturing and Quality. Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell high quality, low cost products in compliance with regulatory requirements is an important factor to the success of its business. Hospira must comply with regulations governing the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of its products, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, and must incur expense, time and effort to ensure compliance with the complex regulations. Hospira must also maintain continuity of supply of raw materials that comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Its business is subject to risks of manufacturing and supply interruptions, and product quality issues, which can lead to product recalls or field actions. Hospira did not experience significant manufacturing or raw material supply interruptions during the periods presented in this report. Hospira has recalled, and or conducted field alerts relating to, certain of its products from time to time. While these activities can lead to costs to repair or replace affected products and temporary interruptions in product sales, and can impact reported results of operations in the applicable period, Hospira does not believe that these activities had a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations during the periods presented in this report. Product Development. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of sales growth over the longer term. To successfully execute its product development strategy, Hospira must continue to develop cost competitive products and enhancements that satisfy customer needs, introduce products on a timely basis and successfully market those products. As a part of this strategy, Hospira will also need to identify, and successfully manage, strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements. Hospira believes that the ability to grow sales in the specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line will be driven primarily by its ability to launch new generic drug products on a timely basis. Generally, the price and sales volume of a generic drug tend to decline as more competitors enter the market for that particular drug. However, new product launches can offset declines from other portfolio products and generate growth. If a company can be "first to market," such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved. Timely, efficient research and development capabilities and expertise in legal and regulatory matters will be required to be successful in executing a "first to market" strategy. Over the longer term, 34 Hospira views biosimilar products as an important opportunity. In 2006, Hospira invested in biosimilar product development through its collaboration with STADA, under which it made a $21.7 million upfront payment, and its $17.1 million acquisition of BresaGen Limited. A key component to the product development strategy for medication management systems has been the development and offering of newer technology drug delivery pumps and related products and services. Hospira expects to achieve sales growth in part due to increased sales of these newer technology products. Hospira believes that the features and functionality offered by these products position it to achieve such growth over the long term. As a result, Hospira is aggressively competing to upgrade its current customer base as well as to capture competitive business. Because of changes in technology, it may take more time and effort to sell and implement newer technology products to its customers. Hospira also expects intense competition for existing and potential customers from other competitors. The timing and amount of purchases made by customers cannot be predicted with certainty. Hospiras ability to execute on its product development efforts is subject to various risks and uncertainties described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors," including the ability to timely launch new products and enhancements, the ability to successfully manage collaborative arrangements, actions of competitors and acceptance by customers. GPO Contracts. The ability to maintain GPO contracts is an important factor for Hospira to generate sales. Approximately 43% of Hospiras net sales are made through these contracts. Typically, these contracts cover a portion of Hospiras product lines, specify the prices for Hospiras products, and are effective for three to five years. Generally, the contracts are extended or competitively bid prior to contract expiration. In any year, a portion of the various contracts Hospira has with GPOs expire. While Hospira expects to maintain its business with the GPOs and has been able to maintain its base business under its GPO contracts during the periods covered by this report, if Hospira is unable to renew or renegotiate any significant GPO contracts in the future, its ability to sell products and its profitability may be harmed. Share Repurchase. In February 2006, Hospiras board of directors approved a $400.0 million share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira purchased 7,584,400 shares for $299.8 million in aggregate under the 2006 board authorization, all of which were purchased during 2006. Since Hospira intends to dedicate a substantial portion of its future cash to servicing debt and integrating Mayne Pharma into its operations, Hospira does not expect to repurchase any shares in 2008. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are those policies that require management to make the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive to result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Hospira believes its most critical accounting policies are those described below. For a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Revenue Recognition Hospira recognizes revenues from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed and determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. For other than certain drug delivery pumps and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing, product revenue is recognized when products are delivered to customers and title passes. In certain circumstances, Hospira enters into arrangements in which it provides multiple elements to its customers. In these cases, total revenue is divided among the separate units of accounting (deliverables) based on their relative fair value and is recognized for each deliverable in accordance with the applicable revenue recognition criteria. The recognition of revenue is delayed if there are significant post delivery obligations, such as installation or customer acceptance. 35 For drug delivery pumps, revenue is typically derived under one of three types of arrangements: outright sales of the drug delivery pump; placements under lease arrangements; and placements under contracts that include associated disposable set purchases. Lease agreements under which Hospiras warranty obligation extends through the entire term are accounted for as operating leases. For these, Hospira recognizes revenue over the lease term, which averages five years. For leases under which Hospiras warranty obligation is limited to approximately one year, Hospira accounts for these as sales type leases, under which the discounted sales value of the drug delivery pump is recorded as revenue upon placement with the customer. Hospira has contractual arrangements with certain customers whereby it places drug delivery pumps at customer sites, and the customers agree to purchase minimum levels of disposable products (sets) that are used with the pumps. These arrangements generally do not include any upfront fees or payments. The contractual arrangements generally set forth fixed prices for the purchases of the disposable products, where the prices for the disposables do not change over the term of the arrangement, other than, in some cases, for changes in Consumer Price Index provisions. Title for the pumps is retained by Hospira throughout these arrangements, and the related asset is depreciated over its estimated useful life on a straight line basis. In these placement arrangements, revenue is recognized as the disposable products are delivered, in accordance with SFAS No. 48, "Revenue Recognition when Right of Return Exists," and Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 104, "Revenue Recognition." Hospira markets a server based suite of software applications designed to connect data from a hospitals drug information library to drug delivery pumps throughout the hospital. The arrangements related to such applications typically include a perpetual software license, software maintenance and implementation services. Hospira recognizes revenue related to these arrangements in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Position ("SOP") 97 2, "Software Revenue Recognition," as amended. Software license revenue and implementation service revenue are generally recognized upon completion of related obligations or customer acceptance and software maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period. Injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing involves filling customers active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API") into delivery systems. Under these arrangements, customers API is often consigned to Hospira and revenue is recorded for the materials and labor provided by Hospira, plus a profit, upon shipment to the customer. Upon recognizing revenue from a sale, Hospira records an estimate for certain items that reduce gross sales in arriving at its reported net sales for each period. These items include chargebacks, rebates and other items (such as cash discounts and returns). Provisions for chargebacks and rebates represent the most significant and complex of these estimates. Chargebacks Hospira sells a significant portion of its specialty injectable pharmaceutical products through wholesalers, which maintain inventories of Hospira products and later sell those products to end customers. In connection with its sales and marketing efforts, Hospira negotiates prices with end customers for certain products under pricing agreements (including, for example, group purchasing organization contracts). Consistent with industry practice, the negotiated end customer prices are typically lower than the prices charged to the wholesalers. When an end customer purchases a Hospira product that is covered by a pricing agreement from a wholesaler, the end customer pays the wholesaler the price determined under the pricing agreement. The wholesaler is then entitled to charge Hospira back for the difference between the price the wholesaler paid Hospira and the contract price paid by the end customer (a "chargeback"). This process is necessary to enable Hospira to track actual sales to the end customer, which is essential information to run the business effectively. Settlement of chargebacks generally occurs between 30 and 40 days after the sale to wholesalers. To account for the chargeback, Hospira records the initial sale to a wholesaler at the price invoiced to the wholesaler and at the same time, records a provision equal to the estimated amount the 36 wholesaler will later charge back to Hospira, reducing gross sales and trade receivables. This provision must be estimated because the actual end customer and applicable pricing terms may vary at the time of the sale to the wholesaler. Accordingly, the most significant estimates inherent in the initial chargeback provision relate to the volume of sales to the wholesalers that will be subject to chargeback and the ultimate end customer contract price. These estimates are based primarily on an analysis of Hospiras product sales and most recent historical average chargeback credits by product, estimated wholesaler inventory levels, current contract pricing, anticipated future contract pricing changes and claims processing lag time. Hospira estimates the levels of inventory at the wholesalers through analysis of wholesaler purchases and inventory data obtained directly from certain of the wholesalers. A one percent decrease in end customer contract prices for sales in the U.S. pending chargeback at December 31, 2007 would decrease net sales and income before income taxes by $1.4 million. A one percent increase in wholesale units sold in the U.S. subject to chargebacks at December 31, 2007 would decrease net sales and income before income taxes by $1.8 million. Hospira regularly monitors the provision for chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes the actual chargebacks may differ from estimates. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, chargebacks of $73.6 million and $42.9 million, respectively, were recorded as a reduction in trade receivables. 2007 includes the addition of Mayne Pharma. The methodology used to estimate and provide for chargebacks was consistent across all periods presented. Rebates Hospira primarily offers rebates to direct customers, customers who purchase from certain wholesalers at end customer contract prices and government agencies, which administer various programs such as Medicaid. Direct rebates are generally rebates paid to direct purchasing customers based on a contracted discount applied to the direct customers purchases. Indirect rebates are rebates paid to "indirect customers" that have purchased Hospira products from a wholesaler under a pricing agreement with Hospira. Governmental agency rebates are amounts owed based on legal requirements with public sector benefit providers (such as Medicaid), after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases. Hospira estimates the amount of the rebate due at the time of sale, and records the liability and a reduction of gross sales at the same time the product sale is recorded. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from one to 15 months after sale. In determining provisions for rebates to direct customers, Hospira considers the volume of eligible purchases by these customers and the rebate terms. In determining rebates on sales through wholesalers, Hospira considers the volume of eligible contract purchases, the rebate terms and the estimated level of inventory at the wholesalers that would be subject to a rebate, which is estimated as described above under "Chargebacks." Upon receipt of a chargeback, due to the availability of product and customer specific information, Hospira can then establish a specific provision for fees or rebates based on the specific terms of each agreement. Rebates under governmental programs are based on the estimated volume of products sold subject to these programs. Each period the estimates are reviewed and revised, if necessary, in conjunction with a review of contract volumes within the period. Adjustments related to prior period sales have not been material in any period. Hospira regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to recorded reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, accrued rebates of $106.5 million and $65.1 million, respectively, are included in other accrued liabilities. 2007 includes the addition of Mayne Pharma. The methodology used to estimate and provide for rebates was consistent across all periods presented. 37 The following table is an analysis of chargebacks and rebates for 2007 and 2006. In each year, the provisions for chargebacks and rebates relating to prior period sales were not material. (dollars in thousands) Chargebacks Rebates Balance at January 1, 2006 $ 64,184 $ 83,537 Provisions 561,101 126,774 Payments (582,379 ) (145,223 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 42,906 65,088 Provisions 661,012 160,046 Payments (630,279 ) (118,653 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 73,639 $ 106,481 Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, Hospira adopted SFAS No. 123R, "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123R") which requires, among other changes, that the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized as compensation cost over the vesting period based on the fair value of the instrument on the date of grant. Under SFAS No. 123R, Hospira uses the Black Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of stock options. The fair value model includes various assumptions, including the expected volatility and expected life of the awards. These assumptions reflect Hospiras best estimates, but they involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside of Hospiras control. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, stock based compensation expense, as calculated and recorded under SFAS No. 123R, could have been materially impacted. Furthermore, if Hospira uses different assumptions in future periods, stock based compensation expense could be materially impacted in future periods. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for additional information regarding stock based compensation. Pension and Post Retirement Benefits Hospira provides pension and post retirement medical and dental benefits to certain of its active and retired employees based both in and outside of the United States. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira employees participated in Abbott benefit plans that provided pension and post retirement benefits. For financial reporting purposes, Hospira develops assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, and healthcare cost trend rate. For these assumptions, management consults with actuaries, monitors plan provisions and demographics, and reviews public market data and general economic information. These assumptions reflect Hospiras best estimates, but they involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside of Hospiras control. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, pension and post retirement benefit expense, could have been materially impacted. The U.S. discount rate estimate for 2007 and 2006 were developed with the assistance of yield curves developed by third party actuaries, while prior year estimates used Moodys Aa corporate bond index, with consideration of differences in duration between the bonds in the index and Hospiras benefit liabilities. For non U.S. plans, benchmark yield data for high quality fixed income investments for which the timing and amounts of payments match the timing and amounts of projected benefit payments were used to derive discount rate assumptions. The expected rate of return for the pension plan represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return on plan assets is developed from the expected future return of each asset class, weighted by the expected allocation of pension assets to that asset class. Hospira considers historical performance for the types of assets in which the plans invest, independent market forecasts, and economic and capital market conditions. The healthcare cost trend rate assumption for 2007 was 7.5% for pre 65 and 9.0% for post 65 years of age employees, with both rates declining to 5% by 2013 and 2016, respectively. A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate, with other assumptions held constant, would increase/(decrease) the service and interest component of net post retirement medical and dental cost for the year ended December 31, 2007 by approximately $0.3/($0.3) million, 38 and would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post retirement benefit obligation by approximately $6.7/($5.7) million. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). One provision of SFAS No. 158 requires full recognition of the funded status of Hospiras defined benefit and post retirement plans. The incremental effect of the application of this provision in 2006 is provided in Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Another provision of SFAS No. 158 requires the measurement of Hospiras defined benefit plans assets and its obligations to determine the funded status be made as of the end of the fiscal year. This provision of SFAS No. 158 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. Hospira does not anticipate that the impact from the adoption of this provision of SFAS No. 158 will be significant to its financial statements. Impairment of Long Lived Assets The carrying value of long lived assets, including intangible assets and property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is generally determined by comparing projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the assets net book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted. Determining the extent of an impairment, if any, typically requires various estimates and assumptions using managements judgment, including cash flows directly attributable to the asset, the useful life of the asset and residual value, if any. When necessary, Hospira uses internal cash flow estimates, quoted market prices and appraisals as appropriate to determine fair value. Actual results could vary from these estimates. In addition, the remaining useful life of the impaired asset is revised, if necessary. Loss Contingencies Hospira accounts for contingent losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"). Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at managements best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information is known. Accordingly, if Hospira is initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. Income Taxes Hospiras provision for income taxes is based on taxable income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which Hospira operates. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Such liabilities are based on managements judgment, utilizing internal and external tax advisors, and represent the best estimate as to the likely outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of changes to unrecognized tax benefits. Each quarter, Hospira reviews the anticipated mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions and its associated liabilities in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"). Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate expected to be in effect when the taxes are paid. Provision for income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided for on undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries when Hospira intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely to fund foreign acquisitions or to meet working capital and plant and equipment acquisition needs. See further discussion regarding the impact on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as a result of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Jobs Act") in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Hospira has been providing for income taxes based on its independent activities after the separation from Abbott. These estimates might change in future periods as Hospira develops its own tax filing history and considers the results of tax authority examinations. 39  Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales increased 27.8% in 2007 compared to 2006. Of this increase, 23.7% is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. The remaining 4.1% increase in overall net sales is primarily driven by favorable volume/mix of 2.6%, the impact of foreign exchange of 0.9%, and increased price of 0.5% in the United States. Net sales increased 2.4% in 2006 compared to 2005. Sales to third parties represented a 2.7% increase in overall net sales, driven by favorable volume/mix of 1.5%, which includes the unfavorable impact of the Berlex contract termination of (2.6)%, increased price of 0.9% in the United States, and the impact of foreign exchange of 0.3%. Sales to Abbott had an unfavorable impact of (0.3)% on overall net sales, driven primarily by demand, partially offset by increased price. During the first half of 2005, the agreement under which Hospira distributed Berlex imaging agents was terminated, resulting in lower sales from 2005 to 2006. A comparison of product line sales is as follows: Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 U.S. Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals $ 875,619 $ 807,557 $ 845,291 8.4 % (4.5 )% Medication Delivery Systems 890,005 855,483 796,360 4.0 % 7.4 % Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 149,032 183,266 178,777 (18.7 )% 2.5 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 74,711 90,464 104,747 (17.4 )% (13.6 )% Mayne Pharma 101,284 nm nm Other 283,447 283,731 262,600 (0.1 )% 8.0 % Total U.S. 2,374,098 2,220,501 2,187,775 6.9 % 1.5 % International Sales to Third Parties 464,984 397,677 374,560 16.9 % 6.2 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 60,597 70,327 64,361 (13.8 )% 9.3 % Mayne Pharma 536,559 nm nm Total International 1,062,140 468,004 438,921 127.0 % 6.6 % Total Net Sales $ 3,436,238 $ 2,688,505 $ 2,626,696 27.8 % 2.4 % nm percent change not meaningful 2007 compared to 2006: Net sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals increased, driven by higher sales in the base product portfolio, including increased sales of certain anti infective products, drugs sold in differentiated delivery systems, Hospiras proprietary drug Precedex&reg; and favorable pricing. The increase was also driven by contributions from new product launches in 2007 and 2006, including ampicillin sulbactam, ondansetron and propofol. Net sales in Medication Delivery Systems increased, driven by growth in both infusion therapy and medication management systems sales. Growth in infusion therapy products sales was largely due to increased volume from new and existing customer contracts. Medication management systems sales increased due to higher placements of devices and increased revenue from related services. 40 Net sales in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing decreased due to expected lower demand from existing customers for certain products, including several products that now have generic competition. The decrease in U.S. net sales to Abbott was primarily due to expected decreased volume to Abbott for several of its products, partially offset by increased price. The Other product line includes sales of Hospiras products to alternate site providers such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, as well as sales of critical care devices and brain function monitoring systems. The growth in sales to alternate site healthcare customers was more than offset by a decline in sales of critical care devices, the planned exit of certain products manufactured in Ashland, Ohio, and other adjustments. Sales to alternate site healthcare customers increased due to higher overall sales of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication delivery systems, partially offset by decreased sales of deferoxamine. International net sales to Third Parties were higher in all regions primarily related to increased sales of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management systems, favorable exchange, and increased contract manufacturing sales. International net sales to Abbott decreased primarily due to expected decreased volume to Abbott for several of its products, partially offset by increased price. 2006 compared to 2005: Net sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals declined, reflecting the 2005 termination of the Berlex imaging agents distribution agreement. Excluding Berlex, sales within this product line increased, driven by the impact of sales of ceftriaxone, launched in the third quarter of 2005; increased sales of certain anti infective products (which Hospira believes was partially driven by a competitors inability to supply product earlier in the year coupled with government orders); increased sales of syringe products; and favorable price. These factors were partially offset by lower sales of ADD Vantage&reg; diluents due to competitive drug supply issues. The net sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was driven primarily by growth in medication management systems. The growth in medication management systems was due primarily to increased placements of Hospiras newer technology Plum A+&reg; pumps with Hospira MedNet&reg; coupled with the impact of placements of Hospiras LifeCare PCA&reg; infusion system, which was launched in the first quarter of 2006. Net sales in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing were up slightly, driven by growth in demand for several existing and new products, partially offset by the impact of the termination of certain lower margin contracts. The decrease in U.S. net sales to Abbott was primarily due to decreased demand by Abbott for several of its products, partially offset by increased price. The Other product line includes sales of Hospiras products to alternate site providers such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, as well as sales of critical care devices and brain function monitoring systems. The increase in Other U.S. sales was primarily due to increased sales to alternate site healthcare customers including higher sales of anesthesia products, including recently introduced propofol; increased sales of pumps and sets; and other adjustments, partially offset by decreased sales of deferoxamine due to a competitive product launch and lower critical care sales. International net sales to Third Parties were up, primarily reflecting increased sales on a third party manufacturing contract, growth in Canada, and favorable exchange, partially offset by reduced volumes due to transition related supply chain disruptions and lower pricing to distributors compared to the prior Abbott direct sales model. International net sales to Abbott increased primarily due to increased price and increased demand by Abbott for several of its products. 41 Gross Profit Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 Gross profit $ 1,173,923 $ 939,243 $ 849,056 25.0 % 10.6 % As a percent of sales 34.2 % 34.9 % 32.3 % 2007 compared to 2006: Gross profit increased $234.7 million, or 25.0%, in 2007 compared to 2006. Of this increase, $200.3 million, or 21.3%, is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. Gross profit margin decreased by (0.7)% to 34.2% for 2007 from 34.9% in 2006. Of this decrease, (1.0)% is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma, which includes the inventory step up charge resulting from purchase accounting of (1.2)% and amortization of the acquired intangible assets of (1.0)%. The remaining change of 0.3% not related to the addition of Mayne Pharma is primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 0.3%, lower costs associated with the planned manufacturing plant closures of 0.3%, favorable price in the U.S. of 0.1%, and other net changes of 0.1%. These increases were partially offset by inflation and other manufacturing costs of (0.3)%, the impairment of the intangible asset related to the brain function monitoring devices of (0.1)%, and incremental freight and distribution costs of (0.1)%. 2006 compared to 2005: The increase in gross profit margin in 2006 was primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 2.0%, which includes the impact of the termination of the lower margin Berlex agreement of 0.7%; price in the U.S. of 0.7%; an asset impairment and obligations assumed in 2005 and reduction of the obligations in 2006 relating to the sale of the Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility of 0.9%; higher manufacturing performance of 0.5%; lower project expense of 0.4% and lower non recurring transition related costs of 0.3%. These improvements were partially offset by costs associated with the planned manufacturing plant closures of (1.4)% and incremental freight and distribution costs in the International segment of (0.8)%. Research and Development Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 Research and development expense $ 201,232 $ 161,621 $ 138,834 24.5 % 16.4 % As a percent of sales 5.9 % 6.0 % 5.3 % 2007 compared to 2006: Research and development ("R&D") expenses increased $39.6 million in 2007, compared to 2006. Of this increase, $47.2 million is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. Not including the addition of Mayne Pharma, R&D expenses decreased year over year due to the combination of upfront payments made in 2006 related to collaboration agreements for the development, manufacturing and distribution of biosimilar products, as well as lower spending in 2007 on medication delivery infusion systems projects as a result of new product launches. This was partially offset by higher spending on new product development related to new compounds in Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline and clinical trials on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;. 42 2006 compared to 2005: The increase in R&D expenses in 2006 was primarily due to upfront payments relating to collaboration agreements, spending on new product development and stock option expense as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Hospiras upfront payments relate to collaboration agreements for the development, manufacturing and distribution of biosimilar products. R&D spending on new product development related to new compounds in Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline and clinical studies on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;. These increases were partially offset by lower spending in 2006 on medication delivery infusion systems as a result of new product launches. Acquired In Process Research and Development On February 2, 2007, Hospira completed its acquisition of Mayne Pharma. As part of the purchase price allocation, Hospira allocated and expensed $84.8 million to acquired in process research and development related to Mayne Pharmas pipeline products. Additionally in late 2007, Hospira purchased certain clinical studies related to a compound that will be used to file for expanded medical indications. The cost for these clinical studies was $3.2 million and was recorded as acquired in process research and development expense in 2007 as the studies have no alternative future uses. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Hospira acquired BresaGen Limited, formerly an Australian public company. As part of the purchase price allocation, Hospira allocated and expensed $10.0 million to acquired in process research and development related to BresaGens pipeline products. Selling, General and Administrative Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 Selling, general and administrative expense $ 582,078 $ 428,038 $ 373,607 36.0 % 14.6 % As a percent of sales 16.9 % 15.9 % 14.2 % 2007 compared to 2006: Selling, general and administrative ("S,G&A") expenses increased $154.0 million in 2007, compared to 2006. Of this increase, $102.9 million is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to additional costs related to the integration of Mayne Pharma, partially offset by reduced costs due to the completion in 2006 of the implementation of Hospiras new independent infrastructure as a result of the spin off. 2006 compared to 2005: S,G&A expenses increased in 2006 partially related to stock option expense as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to additional costs related to establishment of Hospiras business infrastructure outside the U.S. and costs associated with the implementation of Hospiras new information technology system and related depreciation. Interest Expense Hospira incurred interest expense of $134.5 million in 2007, $31.0 million in 2006 and $28.3 million in 2005. The increase in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the issuance of additional debt and related costs due to the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The increase in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to higher interest rates on Hospiras floating rate debt (as a result of converting some of Hospiras debt from fixed to floating under the interest rate swap entered into in 2005), partially offset by higher capitalized interest in 2006. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, as 43 well as Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, for further information regarding Hospiras debt and credit facilities. Other Income, Net Other (income) and expense for 2007, 2006 and 2005 primarily includes amounts relating to foreign currency transaction gains and losses, interest income, and other items. Foreign exchange (gains) for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $(1.6) million, $(1.1) million and $(0.1) million, respectively. Included in 2007 is $5.7 million of foreign exchange losses realized due to the Mayne Pharma acquisition. Interest (income) for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $(15.1) million, $(17.1) million and $(15.1) million, respectively. In 2007, Hospira also had net gains on investments of $5.0 million. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate was 27.2% in 2007 and 26.8% in both 2006 and 2005. The effective tax rate for 2007 included the impact of a significant unusual item, the expensing of non deductible acquired in process research and development related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition of $84.8 million. Excluding the effect of this item, the 2007 effective tax rate was 18.7%, which includes certain non recurring items such as purchase accounting, integration and restructuring charges generating benefits in higher tax rate jurisdictions. The effective tax rate for 2006 also included the impact of a significant unusual item, the expensing of acquired in process research and development. Excluding the effect of this item, the 2006 effective tax rate was 26.0%. Included in 2005 is tax of $9.1 million related to the repatriation of $175.0 million of foreign earnings under the Jobs Act. Excluding the effect of the repatriation, the 2005 effective tax rate was 24.0%. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2007 compared to 2006, excluding both years significant unusual items, was due primarily to increased expenses in higher tax rate jurisdictions in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition, including intangible amortization expense, purchase accounting charges, and interest expense. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2006 compared to 2005, excluding the impact of expensing of acquired in process research and development in 2006, was due primarily to increased income generated in the U.S, which has a higher tax rate than foreign jurisdictions. The effective tax rates are less than the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate principally due to the benefit of tax exemptions, of varying durations, in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. Liquidity and Capital Resources Summary of Sources and (Uses) of Cash Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Operating activities $ 551,051 $ 424,190 $ 571,087 Investing activities (2,228,039 ) (251,236 ) (184,432 ) Financing activities 1,580,219 (377,728 ) 8,605 Operating Activities Net Cash from Operating Activities continues to be Hospiras primary source of funds to finance operating needs, capital expenditures and repayment of debt. Other capital resources include cash on hand, borrowing availability under Hospiras $375.0 million revolving credit facility and access to the capital markets. Beginning on February 2, 2007, Hospiras operating cash flows include operating cash flows generated by Mayne Pharma. During the two year period after the closing, Hospira expects to incur approximately $95 million to $110 million of cash expenditures relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma, which will reduce operating and investing cash flows. In addition, as a result of the debt incurred during the first quarter of 2007 to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition, Hospira must dedicate substantially greater cash to service debt obligations (including interest expense and mandatory 44 principal payments on the term loan described below) on an ongoing basis compared to past periods. Hospira believes that its current capital resources, including cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, funds available from its revolving credit facility and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to finance its operations, including debt service obligations, capital expenditures, product development and Mayne Pharma integration expenditures for the foreseeable future. In 2007, operating activities provided net cash of $551.1 million driven by net income of $136.8 million. Non cash depreciation, non cash amortization and impairment of intangible charges, the write off of acquired in process research and development, the step up value of acquired inventories sold, non cash stock based compensation expense and the net gains on sales of assets totaled $418.2 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities and Other, net of $(3.9) million consist primarily of payments made on acquired Mayne Pharma current liabilities, including merger advisory fees, and higher trade receivables due to increased sales, partially offset by lower inventory and higher trade payables. In 2006, operating activities provided net cash of $424.2 million, primarily driven by net income of $237.7 million, non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $156.7 million, non cash stock based compensation expense of $35.9 million, and the write off of acquired in process research and development of $10.0 million, offset by a pre tax gain on the sale of the Donegal, Ireland facility of $7.9 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $8.2 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of an increase in inventories, offset by an increase in trade accounts payable and other liabilities and changes in Other, net. The increase in inventory reflected planned normal inventory builds and additional safety stocks to support the business as manufacturing production transfers occur in connection with planned plant closings. Investing Activities In 2007, Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $2,228.0 million includes the acquisition of Mayne Pharma for $1,961.3 million, net of cash acquired and capital expenditures of $210.5 million. Also in connection with the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, Hospira entered into certain foreign currency forward exchange contracts to limit its exposure from currency movements of the Australian dollar. During 2007, Hospira paid $55.7 million for the settlements relating to these contracts. During 2007, Hospira paid $19.2 million for obligations related to acquisitions made by Mayne Pharma in prior years and $5.5 million for the purchase of certain intangible assets and other investments. These decreases were partially offset by proceeds from dispositions of certain product rights for $13.8 million and proceeds from the sales of marketable securities of $10.4 million. In 2006, Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $251.2 million includes capital expenditures of $235.0 million for upgrading and expanding manufacturing and administrative support facilities, and information technology systems. In addition, investing activities includes proceeds from the sale of the Donegal, Ireland and Montreal, Canada facilities of $19.3 million, the use of cash of $17.1 million for the acquisition of BresaGen and $18.4 million for the purchase of certain intangible assets and other investments. Financing Activities Net Cash From Financing Activities totaled $1,580.2 million in 2007. Hospira incurred $1,925.0 million of bank debt to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The bank facilities included a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility and a $1,425.0 million one year bridge loan facility. The bridge loan facility was completely refinanced on March 23, 2007 through the issuance of long term debt securities. During 2007, Hospira prepaid $359.7 million in principal amount of the term loan, in addition to the rescheduled $40.3 million in principal, for a total of $400.0 million. In addition, financing activities include proceeds from employee stock option exercises and related tax benefits of $75.4 million. 45  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities of $377.7 million in 2006 consists primarily of common stock repurchases of $299.8 million and payments to Abbott for international net assets of $126.2 million, offset by proceeds from employee stock option exercises and related tax benefits of $45.8 million, and an increase in other borrowing, net of $2.5 million. Summary of Financial Position Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Cash and cash equivalents $ 241,068 $ 322,045 $ 520,610 Working capital 1,046,731 916,664 964,929 Short term borrowings and long term debt 2,242,879 706,576 697,864 Working Capital The increase in working capital in 2007 was primarily due to an increase in trade receivables and inventory. These increases were partially offset by decreases in cash and increases in short term borrowings, trade payables, and liabilities related to accruals for employee incentive programs. The acquisition of Mayne Pharma increased overall working capital levels in 2007. The decrease in working capital in 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and an increase in income taxes payable. This is offset by an increase in inventory and prepaid expenses and other receivables, and a decrease in current portion of Due to Abbott, Net, which is principally related to the liability for the international net assets transferred from Abbott, and decreases in liabilities related to accruals for employee incentive programs. Debt and Capital Mayne Pharma Acquisition. On February 1, 2007, Hospira incurred $1,925.0 million of bank debt to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The remainder of the purchase price was funded with cash on hand. The bank facilities included a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility and a $1,425.0 million one year bridge loan facility. The bridge loan facility was completely refinanced on March 23, 2007 through the issuance of long term debt securities described below. Under the three year term loan facility, before giving effect to any prepayments (which reduce the repayment amounts on a pro rata basis), Hospira was required to repay $12.5 million in principal at the end of each quarter in 2007. Hospira must repay $50.0 million at the end of each quarter in 2008 and $62.5 million at the end of each quarter in 2009 (with the final payment to be made on the maturity date of January 15, 2010). Hospira is permitted to prepay amounts borrowed under the term loan from time to time without penalty. During 2007, Hospira prepaid $359.7 million in principal amount of the term loan, in addition to the rescheduled $40.3 million in principal, for a total of $400.0 million. The $40.3 million of payments in principal reflect a reduction in original mandatory payments due to prepayments made in 2007. As a result of the prepayments made in 2007, the amount due within one year is $44.4 million, and is recorded as short term borrowings. Borrowings under the term loan facility and bridge loan facility bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin that is determined based on Hospiras senior unsecured debt ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys. Based on Hospiras ratings of BBB (stable outlook) from Standard & Poors and Baa3 (negative outlook) from Moodys, the margin is currently 0.60%. Ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 46 On March 23, 2007, Hospira issued $375.0 million principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due in 2010, $500.0 million principal amount of 5.55% Notes due in 2012 and $550.0 million principal amount of 6.05% Notes due in 2017 in a registered public offering. The Floating Rate Notes due 2010 bear interest at three month LIBOR plus 48 basis points. All series of notes are due on March 30 of the year of maturity. The net proceeds of the notes (after deducting approximately $10.0 million of underwriters discounts and offering expenses of $4.2 million), together with approximately $21.5 million of cash on hand, were used to repay the bridge loan facility and related interest in full. Revolving Credit Facility. Hospira has a five year $375.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), which it entered into on December 16, 2005, and amended on January 15, 2007. The Revolver was amended to permit the Mayne Pharma acquisition and to temporarily increase the maximum leverage ratio and lower the minimum interest coverage ratio. The Revolver is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. Borrowings under the Revolver bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, plus a utilization fee if borrowings under the Revolver exceed 50% of the aggregate amount of committed loans. Hospira is also required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate amount of committed loans. The annual rates for the LIBOR margin, the utilization fee and the facility fee are 0.60%, 0.075% and 0.10%, respectively, as of December 31, 2007, and are subject to increase or decrease if there is a change in Hospiras current credit ratings. The amount of available borrowings may be increased to a maximum of $500.0 million, and the term may be increased for up to two additional years, under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had no amounts borrowed or otherwise outstanding under the Revolver. The Revolver and the indenture governing Hospiras senior unsecured notes (which includes the Mayne Pharma Debt and the $700 million senior unsecured notes) contain, among other provisions, covenants with which Hospira must comply while they are in force. The covenants in the Revolver limit Hospiras ability to, among other things, sell assets, incur indebtedness and liens, incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level and merge or consolidate with other companies. The covenants in the indenture governing Hospiras senior unsecured notes limit Hospiras ability, among other things, to incur unsecured indebtedness, enter into certain sales and lease transactions and merge or consolidate with other companies. Hospiras debt instruments also include customary events of default, which would permit amounts borrowed to be accelerated and would permit the lenders under the revolving credit agreement to terminate their lending commitments. A description of certain covenants is set forth below. Change of Control. The notes issued on March 23, 2007 include covenants that require Hospira to offer to repurchase those notes at 101% of their principal amount if: (1) there is a change of control of Hospira and (2) Hospira is rated below investment grade by both Moodys and Standard & Poors at or within a specified time after the time of announcement of the change of control transaction. A change of control, as described above, would constitute an event of cross default under the term loan agreement and Hospiras revolving credit agreement. Financial Covenants. Hospiras term loan facility and revolving credit facility include requirements to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. The leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Hospiras debt by its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (excluding certain purchase accounting charges relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma into Hospira, expenses relating to Hospiras transition from Abbott, expenses relating to Hospiras manufacturing optimization activities and certain non cash gains, expenses and losses, subject in certain cases to agreed upon maximums) for the twelve months ending on the last day of each quarter. The coverage ratio is calculated by dividing Hospiras earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (excluding the items described above) by 47 its consolidated financing expense (interest expense and net capitalized interest), in each case for the twelve months ended on the last day of each quarter. The maximum leverage ratio is 3.25 as of December 31, 2007, and for all periods thereafter. The minimum coverage ratio is 5.00 as of December 31, 2007, and for all periods thereafter. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira was in compliance with all applicable covenants. Senior Notes. Hospira has approximately $700.0 million of senior unsecured notes outstanding, including $300.0 million of 4.95% notes due in 2009 and $400.0 million of 5.90% notes due in 2014. The 4.95% notes were effectively converted to floating rate notes through interest rate swaps with various counterparties. The senior notes contain customary covenants that limit Hospiras ability to incur secured indebtedness and liens and merge or consolidate with other companies. Other Borrowings. In connection with the acquisition of Mayne Phama in the first quarter of 2007, Hospira assumed a $1.4 million bank term loan which bears a fixed rate of interest of 3.75%, with principal and interest due semi annually, ending in June 2009, of which $1.1 million is classified as short term. Additionally, Hospira assumed a $4.6 million unsecured loan, of which $4.5 million is classified as short term. This loan bears a fixed rate of 1.0% with payments due annually, ending in September 2009. In connection with the acquisition of BresaGen in the fourth quarter of 2006, Hospira assumed a $5.4 million mortgage note that is secured by land and building, of which $0.6 million is classified as short term. The agreement bears a fixed rate of interest of 7.47%, with payments of principal and interest due quarterly, ending in March 2015. In March 2005, Hospira issued economic development promissory notes, the proceeds of which were used for a distribution facility expansion. The $1.75 million ten year notes bear a fixed rate of interest of 2.0%, with principal and interest due monthly. Hospiras foreign affiliates have entered into various loan agreements in their local currency, which are used to optimize the capital structure. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, Hospira had $7.7 million and $8.8 million of such loans outstanding, respectively, of which $7.7 million and $3.9 million were classified as short term, respectively. Transfer of International Net Assets from Abbott. In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the U.S. would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. During the transition period, these operations and assets were used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira was subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira was obligated to pay Abbott for these operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, over a two year period after the spin off date as Hospira established its business infrastructure outside the U.S. and obtained regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The transfers were completed in the second quarter of 2006. The total amounts paid in 2006 and 2005 were $126.2 million and $116.7 million, respectively. Share Repurchase. In February 2006, Hospiras board of directors authorized the repurchase of $400.0 million of Hospiras common stock. The program authorizes Hospira to repurchase common shares from time to time through the open market in compliance with securities regulations and other legal requirements. The size and timing of any purchases are at the discretion of company management, based on factors such as alternative uses of cash, and business and market conditions. The repurchase of shares commenced in early March 2006. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira 48 repurchased 7,584,400 shares for $299.8 million in the aggregate under the 2006 board authorization, all of which were purchased during 2006. Since Hospira intends to dedicate a substantial portion of its future cash to servicing its debt and integrating Mayne Pharma into its operations, Hospira does not expect to repurchase any shares in 2008. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes Hospiras estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payment Due by Period (dollars in millions) Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and Thereafter Long term debt and interest payments $ 2,932.5 $ 187.5 $ 949.5 $ 657.7 $ 1,137.8 Lease obligations 168.1 32.4 53.4 42.7 39.6 Purchase commitments(1) 423.1 410.4 11.8 0.9 Other long term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet(2) 174.6 141.3 33.3 Funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006(3) 52.6 17.8 22.4 12.4 Total $ 3,750.9 $ 630.3 $ 1,173.8 $ 757.0 $ 1,189.8 (1)Purchase obligations for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital requirements. Hospira has committed to make potential future "milestone" payments to third parties as part of in licensing and development agreements. Payments under these agreements are contingent upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and or commercial milestones and are not included in the table above. (2)Includes liability of $144.5 million relating to unrecognized tax benefits, penalties and interest: excludes approximately $135.5 million of other long term liabilities related primarily to post retirement benefit obligations. (3)To meet the funding rules of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the estimated minimum required contribution amounts are set forth in the table above. While Hospiras funding policy requires contributions to our defined benefit plans equal to the amounts necessary to, at a minimum, satisfy the funding requirements as prescribed by the laws and regulations of each country, Hospira does make discretionary contributions when management determines it is prudent to do so. Hospira does not currently expect to contribute to its main U.S. pension plan in 2008. Hospiras commercial commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, primarily consist of non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had $21.1 million of outstanding letters of credit, with a majority expiring in 2008. No amounts have been drawn on these letters of credit. Hospira has no material exposures to off balance sheet arrangements, no special purpose entities, and no activities that include non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value. 49 Recently Issued Accounting Standards In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51" ("SFAS No. 160"). SFAS No. 160 states that accounting and reporting for minority interests will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. SFAS No. 160 also establishes reporting requirements that provide sufficient disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS No. 160 applies to all entities that prepare consolidated financial statements, except not for profit organizations, but will affect only those entities that have an outstanding noncontrolling interest in one or more subsidiaries or that deconsolidate a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of SFAS No. 160 on its financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), "Business Combinations" ("SFAS No. 141R"). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for the reporting entity in a business combination, including recognition and measurement in the financial statements of the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. This statement also establishes disclosure requirements to enable financial statement users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of SFAS No. 141R on its financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 07 1, "Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements" ("EITF 07 1"). EITF 07 1 provides guidance on how to determine whether an arrangement constitutes a collaborative arrangement, how costs incurred and revenue generated on sales to third parties should be reported by the participants in a collaborative arrangement, how payments made between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be characterized, and what participants should disclose in the notes to the financial statements about a collaborative arrangement. EITF 07 1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of EITF 07 1 on its financial statements. In June 2007, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07 3, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development Activities" ("EITF 07 3"). EITF 07 03 states that nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities should be deferred and capitalized. Such amounts should be recognized as an expense as the related goods are delivered or the related services performed. If it is not expected that the goods will be delivered or services will be rendered, the capitalized advance payment should be charged to expense in the period in which such determination is made. EITF 07 3 is effective for new contracts entered into in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of EITF 07 3 on its financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" ("SFAS No. 159"). SFAS No. 159 provides a company with the option to measure selected financial instruments and certain other items at fair value at specified election dates. The election may be applied on an item by item basis, with disclosure regarding reasons for partial election and additional information about items selected for fair value option. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of SFAS No. 159 on its financial statements. 50 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing an asset or liability and establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop those assumptions. Under the standard, fair value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Hospira does not anticipate that the impact of SFAS No. 157 will be significant on its financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). One provision of SFAS No. 158 requires the measurement of Hospiras defined benefit plans assets and its obligations to determine the funded status be made as of the end of the fiscal year. This provision of SFAS No. 158 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. Hospira does not anticipate that the impact from the adoption of this provision of SFAS No. 158 will be significant to its financial statements.  Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instrument and Risk Management Hospira operates globally, and earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Upon consideration of management objectives, costs and opportunities, Hospira uses derivative instruments, including foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to manage these risks. Hospira enters into derivative instrument contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions to limit the amount of credit exposure to nonperformance by any one institution. Hospira does not utilize derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras operations are exposed to currency exchange rate risk, which is mitigated by Hospiras use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts ("forward contracts"). The objective in managing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Currency exposures include third party trade payables and receivables, and intercompany loans where the asset or liability is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. Forward contract gains and losses on these exposures substantially offset the remeasurement of the related asset or liability, and both are included in other income, net. In addition, currency exposures exist for certain subsidiaries for anticipated intercompany purchases, firm commitments, and third party forecasted transactions expected to be denominated in a foreign currency due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Forward contract gains and losses related to such exposures are also included in other income, net during the term of the forward contract, as they are not formally designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Net forward contract (income) expense for the year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $3.4 million, $(2.0) million and $(0.5) million, respectively, and are included in other income, net in the consolidated statements of income. The carrying value and fair value of forward contracts was a net payable of $10.6 million and $5.3 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 51 Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras primary interest rate exposures relate to cash and cash equivalents, and fixed and variable rate debt. The objective in managing exposure to changes in interest rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Hospiras investment portfolio of $264.8 million at December 31, 2007 consists of cash and cash equivalents, equity investments in affiliated companies, and cost investments, primarily consisting of marketable securities which are classified as "available for sale." For marketable securities, any gains or losses will not be recognized in Hospiras statements of income until the investment is sold or if there is a reduction in fair value that is determined to be an other than temporary impairment. The carrying value of the investment portfolio approximates fair market value at December 31, 2007 and the value at maturity, as the majority of investments consist of securities with maturities of less than three months. Because Hospiras investments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates, based on average cash and cash equivalents during the year, would increase/(decrease) interest income by approximately $2.8 million. Hospira has a Revolver that allows borrowings up to $375.0 million for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. The amount of available borrowings under the Revolver may be increased to a maximum of $500.0 million, and the term may be increased for up to two additional years, under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had no amounts outstanding under the Revolver. In conjunction with the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, on March 23, 2007, Hospira issued $375.0 million principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due in 2010 that bear interest at a three month LIBOR plus 48 basis points. A hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $3.8 million. Also, on February 1, 2007, Hospira incurred a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility bearing interest at LIBOR plus a margin that is determined based on Hospiras senior unsecured debt ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys. As of December 31, 2007 the outstanding balance on the term loan was $100.0 million. A hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $1.0 million. In conjunction with the spin off from Abbott, on June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an underwritten offering of a consolidated $700.0 million aggregate principal amount consisting of $300.0 million five year senior unsecured notes and $400.0 million 10 year senior unsecured notes, both of which bear a fixed rate of interest. In January 2005, Hospira entered into interest rate swap transactions whereby the $300.0 million five year senior unsecured notes due in June 2009 were effectively converted from fixed to floating rate debt. Hospira records the interest rate swap contracts at fair value and offsets the carrying amount of the fixed rate debt by the same amount. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(0.2) million and $(8.2) million, respectively. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2007 and 2006, this estimated fair value represents the amount that Hospira would have to pay to counterparties. As a result of converting from fixed to floating rate debt, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $3.0 million. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above, as well as Notes 5 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K, for further information. 52   
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Hospiras audited financial statements included in Item 8. For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 3,436,238 $ 2,688,505 $ 2,626,696 $ 2,645,036 $ 2,623,737 Gross profit 1,173,923 939,243 849,056 786,601 701,051 Income from operations(1) 302,626 339,584 336,615 427,650 360,375 Income before income taxes 187,786 324,697 322,075 411,520 359,121 Net income $ 136,758 $ 237,679 $ 235,638 $ 301,552 $ 260,363 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 0.87 $ 1.51 $ 1.48 $ 1.93 $ 1.67 Diluted $ 0.85 $ 1.48 $ 1.46 $ 1.92 $ 1.67 Weighted average common shares outstanding (in thousands): Basic(2) 156,919 157,368 159,275 156,187 156,043 Diluted(2) 160,164 160,424 161,634 157,160 156,043 (1)Includes acquired in process research and development charge of $88.0 million and $10.0 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and post retirement medical and dental curtailment benefit expense of $64.6 million in 2004. (2)For periods prior to April 30, 2004, basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the number of shares of Hospira common stock outstanding on April 30, 2004, the date on which the Hospira common stock was distributed to the shareholders of Abbott in connection with the spin off. December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in thousands) Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 5,084,666 $ 2,847,587 $ 2,789,182 $ 2,342,790 $ 2,250,163 Long term debt $ 2,184,385 $ 702,044 $ 695,285 $ 698,841 $ 31  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company that develops, manufactures and markets products that help improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. Hospiras portfolio includes one of the industrys broadest lines of generic acute care and oncology injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals; and integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities. In February 2007, Hospira acquired Mayne Pharma to increase its global presence in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals. Transition from Abbott Hospira became a separate public company pursuant to a spin off from Abbott on April 30, 2004 (the "spin off date"). In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. During the transition period, these operations and assets were used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira was subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira was dependent on Abbotts international infrastructure until such legal transfers occurred in each international country. These transfers were completed in 2006. Hospira and Abbott entered into various manufacture and supply agreements prior to the spin off under which Hospira supplies certain products to Abbott that it manufactured prior to the spin off. These agreements had an initial two year term (originally scheduled to expire in April 2006), subject to being extended by Abbott for an additional two year term under substantially similar contractual provisions. Some of these agreements terminated in 2006, resulting in lower sales to Abbott during 2006 and 2007. Cost Reduction Activities As part of its strategy to improve margins and cash flows, beginning in 2005, Hospira has taken a number of actions to reduce operating costs and optimize its manufacturing capabilities and capacity. In May 2005, to reduce its costs to produce critical care products, Hospira completed a strategic manufacturing, commercialization and development agreement with ICU Medical and sold its Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility and related equipment and inventory to ICU Medical. In connection with these transactions, during 2005, Hospira recorded an impairment charge of $2.4 million and a loss of $13.4 million, which was Hospiras best estimate of the cost of certain obligations that Hospira was required to reimburse to ICU Medical over the 24 month period after closing. Both the impairment and the loss related to obligations assumed were recorded in cost of products sold. During 2007 and 2006, Hospira reduced its liability by $1.6 million and $6.8 million, respectively, due to a change in ICU Medicals strategy for the manufacturing facility that reduced Hospiras related obligation. In August 2005, Hospira announced plans to close its manufacturing plant in Donegal, Ireland and closed the facility late in 2006. Products produced at the Donegal plant have been moved to Hospira facilities primarily in Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic. At the time of the announcement, Hospira expected to incur $30 million to $40 million of pre tax charges relating to the plant closure. During 2005, 2006 and 2007, Hospira incurred $8.5 million, $21.9 million and $0.7 million of these charges, respectively, which are reported in cost of products sold. The costs consist primarily of severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the building and certain equipment, and other exit costs. For further details regarding the 32 financial impact of this plant closure, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In February 2006, Hospira announced plans to close manufacturing plants in Ashland, Ohio and Montreal, Canada over the subsequent 18 to 28 months, respectively, and also provided a timeline for phasing out production at a facility in Abbotts North Chicago, Illinois campus, where it has leased space from its former parent company since the spin off in April 2004. Hospira intends to transition out of this facility in advance of the leases expiration in 2014, with a majority of the product transfers occurring over the four years following the announcement. Hospira will transfer production of the primary products from these facilities to other Hospira facilities and will outsource certain product components to third party suppliers. As of December 31, 2007, the Ashland, Ohio manufacturing plant was closed and Hospira expects to close the Montreal, Canada manufacturing plant by the end of the first half of 2008. The aggregate charges that Hospira will incur related to the plant closings are expected to be in the range of approximately $95 million to $110 million on a pre tax basis, of which approximately $45 million to $55 million are expected to be reported as restructuring charges. The restructuring costs consist primarily of costs related to severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the buildings and certain equipment, and other exit costs. The remaining charges relate to the relocation of production. During 2007 and 2006, Hospira incurred $13.6 million and $21.7 million of restructuring charges, respectively, which are recorded in cost of products sold. For further details regarding the financial impact of these plant closures, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. These cost reduction activities involve risks and uncertainties as relocating or outsourcing production is a complex process. Hospira may incur more charges than estimated and may not realize the expected cost savings on its planned time frame or at all. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Hospiras Business and Industry Hospiras cost reduction activities have resulted in significant charges. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended cost savings." Acquisition of Mayne Pharma On February 2, 2007, Hospira completed its acquisition of Mayne Pharma for $2,055.0 million. As Mayne Pharma has strong market positions in Europe and Australia and a significant commercial infrastructure outside the United States, the acquisition has substantially increased Hospiras international presence. The acquisition has also broadened Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceuticals product line. The results of operations of Mayne Pharma are included in Hospiras results for periods on and after February 2, 2007, which has affected comparability of the financial statements for the periods presented in this report and will affect comparability in future periods. For 2007, sales of Mayne Pharma products, which are principally specialty injectable pharmaceutical products, are reported as a separate product line within each of Hospiras reportable segments. In connection with the acquisition, Hospira recorded $137.9 million of charges relating to purchase accounting during 2007, including $84.8 million of acquired in process research and development, all of which was recorded in the first quarter, and $53.1 million of inventory step up charges, of which $21.4 million was expensed in the first quarter and $31.7 million was expensed in the second quarter. Hospira also recorded $518.2 million of intangible assets in connection with the acquisition, which will be amortized over their useful lives (which have a weighted average life of 10 years). For further details regarding these charges, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In connection with the integration of Mayne Pharma into its operations, Hospira expects to incur approximately $95 million to $110 million of cash expenditures for the two year period after the closing, of which $60 million to $75 million will be recorded as expense and the remainder relates to purchase accounting items and capital projects. These expenses relate to the closure of facilities, 33 termination of lease agreements and employee related benefit arrangements during the two year period after the closing. Approximately $73.3 million of cash expenditures and $43.8 million of such expenses were recorded during 2007. In addition to integration expenses, Hospira recorded other acquisition related expenses of $6.5 million in 2007. For further details regarding these expenses, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. The total purchase price of $2,055.0 million is comprised of $2,042.3 million of cash purchase price and $12.7 million of direct acquisition costs. On February 1, 2007, Hospira incurred $1,925.0 million of bank debt to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The remainder of the purchase price was funded with cash on hand. The bank facilities included a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility and a $1,425.0 million one year bridge loan facility. The bridge loan facility was completely refinanced on March 23, 2007 through the issuance of long term debt securities. For further details, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. On an ongoing basis, Hospira will continue to incur significantly greater interest expense than it incurred in prior periods, and will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to servicing its debt. Please refer to "Liquidity and Capital Resources Debt and Capital" later in this Item 7 for further details. The acquisition of Mayne Pharma is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including risks relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma and risks relating to our incurring substantial indebtedness in connection with the acquisition. Please see "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Mayne Pharma Acquisition and Related Transactions." Other Factors Manufacturing and Quality. Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell high quality, low cost products in compliance with regulatory requirements is an important factor to the success of its business. Hospira must comply with regulations governing the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of its products, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, and must incur expense, time and effort to ensure compliance with the complex regulations. Hospira must also maintain continuity of supply of raw materials that comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Its business is subject to risks of manufacturing and supply interruptions, and product quality issues, which can lead to product recalls or field actions. Hospira did not experience significant manufacturing or raw material supply interruptions during the periods presented in this report. Hospira has recalled, and or conducted field alerts relating to, certain of its products from time to time. While these activities can lead to costs to repair or replace affected products and temporary interruptions in product sales, and can impact reported results of operations in the applicable period, Hospira does not believe that these activities had a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations during the periods presented in this report. Product Development. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of sales growth over the longer term. To successfully execute its product development strategy, Hospira must continue to develop cost competitive products and enhancements that satisfy customer needs, introduce products on a timely basis and successfully market those products. As a part of this strategy, Hospira will also need to identify, and successfully manage, strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements. Hospira believes that the ability to grow sales in the specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line will be driven primarily by its ability to launch new generic drug products on a timely basis. Generally, the price and sales volume of a generic drug tend to decline as more competitors enter the market for that particular drug. However, new product launches can offset declines from other portfolio products and generate growth. If a company can be "first to market," such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved. Timely, efficient research and development capabilities and expertise in legal and regulatory matters will be required to be successful in executing a "first to market" strategy. Over the longer term, 34 Hospira views biosimilar products as an important opportunity. In 2006, Hospira invested in biosimilar product development through its collaboration with STADA, under which it made a $21.7 million upfront payment, and its $17.1 million acquisition of BresaGen Limited. A key component to the product development strategy for medication management systems has been the development and offering of newer technology drug delivery pumps and related products and services. Hospira expects to achieve sales growth in part due to increased sales of these newer technology products. Hospira believes that the features and functionality offered by these products position it to achieve such growth over the long term. As a result, Hospira is aggressively competing to upgrade its current customer base as well as to capture competitive business. Because of changes in technology, it may take more time and effort to sell and implement newer technology products to its customers. Hospira also expects intense competition for existing and potential customers from other competitors. The timing and amount of purchases made by customers cannot be predicted with certainty. Hospiras ability to execute on its product development efforts is subject to various risks and uncertainties described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors," including the ability to timely launch new products and enhancements, the ability to successfully manage collaborative arrangements, actions of competitors and acceptance by customers. GPO Contracts. The ability to maintain GPO contracts is an important factor for Hospira to generate sales. Approximately 43% of Hospiras net sales are made through these contracts. Typically, these contracts cover a portion of Hospiras product lines, specify the prices for Hospiras products, and are effective for three to five years. Generally, the contracts are extended or competitively bid prior to contract expiration. In any year, a portion of the various contracts Hospira has with GPOs expire. While Hospira expects to maintain its business with the GPOs and has been able to maintain its base business under its GPO contracts during the periods covered by this report, if Hospira is unable to renew or renegotiate any significant GPO contracts in the future, its ability to sell products and its profitability may be harmed. Share Repurchase. In February 2006, Hospiras board of directors approved a $400.0 million share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira purchased 7,584,400 shares for $299.8 million in aggregate under the 2006 board authorization, all of which were purchased during 2006. Since Hospira intends to dedicate a substantial portion of its future cash to servicing debt and integrating Mayne Pharma into its operations, Hospira does not expect to repurchase any shares in 2008. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are those policies that require management to make the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive to result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Hospira believes its most critical accounting policies are those described below. For a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Revenue Recognition Hospira recognizes revenues from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed and determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. For other than certain drug delivery pumps and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing, product revenue is recognized when products are delivered to customers and title passes. In certain circumstances, Hospira enters into arrangements in which it provides multiple elements to its customers. In these cases, total revenue is divided among the separate units of accounting (deliverables) based on their relative fair value and is recognized for each deliverable in accordance with the applicable revenue recognition criteria. The recognition of revenue is delayed if there are significant post delivery obligations, such as installation or customer acceptance. 35 For drug delivery pumps, revenue is typically derived under one of three types of arrangements: outright sales of the drug delivery pump; placements under lease arrangements; and placements under contracts that include associated disposable set purchases. Lease agreements under which Hospiras warranty obligation extends through the entire term are accounted for as operating leases. For these, Hospira recognizes revenue over the lease term, which averages five years. For leases under which Hospiras warranty obligation is limited to approximately one year, Hospira accounts for these as sales type leases, under which the discounted sales value of the drug delivery pump is recorded as revenue upon placement with the customer. Hospira has contractual arrangements with certain customers whereby it places drug delivery pumps at customer sites, and the customers agree to purchase minimum levels of disposable products (sets) that are used with the pumps. These arrangements generally do not include any upfront fees or payments. The contractual arrangements generally set forth fixed prices for the purchases of the disposable products, where the prices for the disposables do not change over the term of the arrangement, other than, in some cases, for changes in Consumer Price Index provisions. Title for the pumps is retained by Hospira throughout these arrangements, and the related asset is depreciated over its estimated useful life on a straight line basis. In these placement arrangements, revenue is recognized as the disposable products are delivered, in accordance with SFAS No. 48, "Revenue Recognition when Right of Return Exists," and Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 104, "Revenue Recognition." Hospira markets a server based suite of software applications designed to connect data from a hospitals drug information library to drug delivery pumps throughout the hospital. The arrangements related to such applications typically include a perpetual software license, software maintenance and implementation services. Hospira recognizes revenue related to these arrangements in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Position ("SOP") 97 2, "Software Revenue Recognition," as amended. Software license revenue and implementation service revenue are generally recognized upon completion of related obligations or customer acceptance and software maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period. Injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing involves filling customers active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API") into delivery systems. Under these arrangements, customers API is often consigned to Hospira and revenue is recorded for the materials and labor provided by Hospira, plus a profit, upon shipment to the customer. Upon recognizing revenue from a sale, Hospira records an estimate for certain items that reduce gross sales in arriving at its reported net sales for each period. These items include chargebacks, rebates and other items (such as cash discounts and returns). Provisions for chargebacks and rebates represent the most significant and complex of these estimates. Chargebacks Hospira sells a significant portion of its specialty injectable pharmaceutical products through wholesalers, which maintain inventories of Hospira products and later sell those products to end customers. In connection with its sales and marketing efforts, Hospira negotiates prices with end customers for certain products under pricing agreements (including, for example, group purchasing organization contracts). Consistent with industry practice, the negotiated end customer prices are typically lower than the prices charged to the wholesalers. When an end customer purchases a Hospira product that is covered by a pricing agreement from a wholesaler, the end customer pays the wholesaler the price determined under the pricing agreement. The wholesaler is then entitled to charge Hospira back for the difference between the price the wholesaler paid Hospira and the contract price paid by the end customer (a "chargeback"). This process is necessary to enable Hospira to track actual sales to the end customer, which is essential information to run the business effectively. Settlement of chargebacks generally occurs between 30 and 40 days after the sale to wholesalers. To account for the chargeback, Hospira records the initial sale to a wholesaler at the price invoiced to the wholesaler and at the same time, records a provision equal to the estimated amount the 36 wholesaler will later charge back to Hospira, reducing gross sales and trade receivables. This provision must be estimated because the actual end customer and applicable pricing terms may vary at the time of the sale to the wholesaler. Accordingly, the most significant estimates inherent in the initial chargeback provision relate to the volume of sales to the wholesalers that will be subject to chargeback and the ultimate end customer contract price. These estimates are based primarily on an analysis of Hospiras product sales and most recent historical average chargeback credits by product, estimated wholesaler inventory levels, current contract pricing, anticipated future contract pricing changes and claims processing lag time. Hospira estimates the levels of inventory at the wholesalers through analysis of wholesaler purchases and inventory data obtained directly from certain of the wholesalers. A one percent decrease in end customer contract prices for sales in the U.S. pending chargeback at December 31, 2007 would decrease net sales and income before income taxes by $1.4 million. A one percent increase in wholesale units sold in the U.S. subject to chargebacks at December 31, 2007 would decrease net sales and income before income taxes by $1.8 million. Hospira regularly monitors the provision for chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes the actual chargebacks may differ from estimates. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, chargebacks of $73.6 million and $42.9 million, respectively, were recorded as a reduction in trade receivables. 2007 includes the addition of Mayne Pharma. The methodology used to estimate and provide for chargebacks was consistent across all periods presented. Rebates Hospira primarily offers rebates to direct customers, customers who purchase from certain wholesalers at end customer contract prices and government agencies, which administer various programs such as Medicaid. Direct rebates are generally rebates paid to direct purchasing customers based on a contracted discount applied to the direct customers purchases. Indirect rebates are rebates paid to "indirect customers" that have purchased Hospira products from a wholesaler under a pricing agreement with Hospira. Governmental agency rebates are amounts owed based on legal requirements with public sector benefit providers (such as Medicaid), after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases. Hospira estimates the amount of the rebate due at the time of sale, and records the liability and a reduction of gross sales at the same time the product sale is recorded. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from one to 15 months after sale. In determining provisions for rebates to direct customers, Hospira considers the volume of eligible purchases by these customers and the rebate terms. In determining rebates on sales through wholesalers, Hospira considers the volume of eligible contract purchases, the rebate terms and the estimated level of inventory at the wholesalers that would be subject to a rebate, which is estimated as described above under "Chargebacks." Upon receipt of a chargeback, due to the availability of product and customer specific information, Hospira can then establish a specific provision for fees or rebates based on the specific terms of each agreement. Rebates under governmental programs are based on the estimated volume of products sold subject to these programs. Each period the estimates are reviewed and revised, if necessary, in conjunction with a review of contract volumes within the period. Adjustments related to prior period sales have not been material in any period. Hospira regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to recorded reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, accrued rebates of $106.5 million and $65.1 million, respectively, are included in other accrued liabilities. 2007 includes the addition of Mayne Pharma. The methodology used to estimate and provide for rebates was consistent across all periods presented. 37 The following table is an analysis of chargebacks and rebates for 2007 and 2006. In each year, the provisions for chargebacks and rebates relating to prior period sales were not material. (dollars in thousands) Chargebacks Rebates Balance at January 1, 2006 $ 64,184 $ 83,537 Provisions 561,101 126,774 Payments (582,379 ) (145,223 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 42,906 65,088 Provisions 661,012 160,046 Payments (630,279 ) (118,653 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 73,639 $ 106,481 Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, Hospira adopted SFAS No. 123R, "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123R") which requires, among other changes, that the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized as compensation cost over the vesting period based on the fair value of the instrument on the date of grant. Under SFAS No. 123R, Hospira uses the Black Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of stock options. The fair value model includes various assumptions, including the expected volatility and expected life of the awards. These assumptions reflect Hospiras best estimates, but they involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside of Hospiras control. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, stock based compensation expense, as calculated and recorded under SFAS No. 123R, could have been materially impacted. Furthermore, if Hospira uses different assumptions in future periods, stock based compensation expense could be materially impacted in future periods. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for additional information regarding stock based compensation. Pension and Post Retirement Benefits Hospira provides pension and post retirement medical and dental benefits to certain of its active and retired employees based both in and outside of the United States. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira employees participated in Abbott benefit plans that provided pension and post retirement benefits. For financial reporting purposes, Hospira develops assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, and healthcare cost trend rate. For these assumptions, management consults with actuaries, monitors plan provisions and demographics, and reviews public market data and general economic information. These assumptions reflect Hospiras best estimates, but they involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside of Hospiras control. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, pension and post retirement benefit expense, could have been materially impacted. The U.S. discount rate estimate for 2007 and 2006 were developed with the assistance of yield curves developed by third party actuaries, while prior year estimates used Moodys Aa corporate bond index, with consideration of differences in duration between the bonds in the index and Hospiras benefit liabilities. For non U.S. plans, benchmark yield data for high quality fixed income investments for which the timing and amounts of payments match the timing and amounts of projected benefit payments were used to derive discount rate assumptions. The expected rate of return for the pension plan represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return on plan assets is developed from the expected future return of each asset class, weighted by the expected allocation of pension assets to that asset class. Hospira considers historical performance for the types of assets in which the plans invest, independent market forecasts, and economic and capital market conditions. The healthcare cost trend rate assumption for 2007 was 7.5% for pre 65 and 9.0% for post 65 years of age employees, with both rates declining to 5% by 2013 and 2016, respectively. A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate, with other assumptions held constant, would increase/(decrease) the service and interest component of net post retirement medical and dental cost for the year ended December 31, 2007 by approximately $0.3/($0.3) million, 38 and would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post retirement benefit obligation by approximately $6.7/($5.7) million. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). One provision of SFAS No. 158 requires full recognition of the funded status of Hospiras defined benefit and post retirement plans. The incremental effect of the application of this provision in 2006 is provided in Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Another provision of SFAS No. 158 requires the measurement of Hospiras defined benefit plans assets and its obligations to determine the funded status be made as of the end of the fiscal year. This provision of SFAS No. 158 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. Hospira does not anticipate that the impact from the adoption of this provision of SFAS No. 158 will be significant to its financial statements. Impairment of Long Lived Assets The carrying value of long lived assets, including intangible assets and property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is generally determined by comparing projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the assets net book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted. Determining the extent of an impairment, if any, typically requires various estimates and assumptions using managements judgment, including cash flows directly attributable to the asset, the useful life of the asset and residual value, if any. When necessary, Hospira uses internal cash flow estimates, quoted market prices and appraisals as appropriate to determine fair value. Actual results could vary from these estimates. In addition, the remaining useful life of the impaired asset is revised, if necessary. Loss Contingencies Hospira accounts for contingent losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"). Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at managements best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information is known. Accordingly, if Hospira is initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. Income Taxes Hospiras provision for income taxes is based on taxable income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which Hospira operates. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Such liabilities are based on managements judgment, utilizing internal and external tax advisors, and represent the best estimate as to the likely outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of changes to unrecognized tax benefits. Each quarter, Hospira reviews the anticipated mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions and its associated liabilities in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"). Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate expected to be in effect when the taxes are paid. Provision for income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided for on undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries when Hospira intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely to fund foreign acquisitions or to meet working capital and plant and equipment acquisition needs. See further discussion regarding the impact on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as a result of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Jobs Act") in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Hospira has been providing for income taxes based on its independent activities after the separation from Abbott. These estimates might change in future periods as Hospira develops its own tax filing history and considers the results of tax authority examinations. 39  Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales increased 27.8% in 2007 compared to 2006. Of this increase, 23.7% is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. The remaining 4.1% increase in overall net sales is primarily driven by favorable volume/mix of 2.6%, the impact of foreign exchange of 0.9%, and increased price of 0.5% in the United States. Net sales increased 2.4% in 2006 compared to 2005. Sales to third parties represented a 2.7% increase in overall net sales, driven by favorable volume/mix of 1.5%, which includes the unfavorable impact of the Berlex contract termination of (2.6)%, increased price of 0.9% in the United States, and the impact of foreign exchange of 0.3%. Sales to Abbott had an unfavorable impact of (0.3)% on overall net sales, driven primarily by demand, partially offset by increased price. During the first half of 2005, the agreement under which Hospira distributed Berlex imaging agents was terminated, resulting in lower sales from 2005 to 2006. A comparison of product line sales is as follows: Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 U.S. Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals $ 875,619 $ 807,557 $ 845,291 8.4 % (4.5 )% Medication Delivery Systems 890,005 855,483 796,360 4.0 % 7.4 % Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 149,032 183,266 178,777 (18.7 )% 2.5 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 74,711 90,464 104,747 (17.4 )% (13.6 )% Mayne Pharma 101,284 nm nm Other 283,447 283,731 262,600 (0.1 )% 8.0 % Total U.S. 2,374,098 2,220,501 2,187,775 6.9 % 1.5 % International Sales to Third Parties 464,984 397,677 374,560 16.9 % 6.2 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 60,597 70,327 64,361 (13.8 )% 9.3 % Mayne Pharma 536,559 nm nm Total International 1,062,140 468,004 438,921 127.0 % 6.6 % Total Net Sales $ 3,436,238 $ 2,688,505 $ 2,626,696 27.8 % 2.4 % nm percent change not meaningful 2007 compared to 2006: Net sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals increased, driven by higher sales in the base product portfolio, including increased sales of certain anti infective products, drugs sold in differentiated delivery systems, Hospiras proprietary drug Precedex&reg; and favorable pricing. The increase was also driven by contributions from new product launches in 2007 and 2006, including ampicillin sulbactam, ondansetron and propofol. Net sales in Medication Delivery Systems increased, driven by growth in both infusion therapy and medication management systems sales. Growth in infusion therapy products sales was largely due to increased volume from new and existing customer contracts. Medication management systems sales increased due to higher placements of devices and increased revenue from related services. 40 Net sales in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing decreased due to expected lower demand from existing customers for certain products, including several products that now have generic competition. The decrease in U.S. net sales to Abbott was primarily due to expected decreased volume to Abbott for several of its products, partially offset by increased price. The Other product line includes sales of Hospiras products to alternate site providers such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, as well as sales of critical care devices and brain function monitoring systems. The growth in sales to alternate site healthcare customers was more than offset by a decline in sales of critical care devices, the planned exit of certain products manufactured in Ashland, Ohio, and other adjustments. Sales to alternate site healthcare customers increased due to higher overall sales of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication delivery systems, partially offset by decreased sales of deferoxamine. International net sales to Third Parties were higher in all regions primarily related to increased sales of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management systems, favorable exchange, and increased contract manufacturing sales. International net sales to Abbott decreased primarily due to expected decreased volume to Abbott for several of its products, partially offset by increased price. 2006 compared to 2005: Net sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals declined, reflecting the 2005 termination of the Berlex imaging agents distribution agreement. Excluding Berlex, sales within this product line increased, driven by the impact of sales of ceftriaxone, launched in the third quarter of 2005; increased sales of certain anti infective products (which Hospira believes was partially driven by a competitors inability to supply product earlier in the year coupled with government orders); increased sales of syringe products; and favorable price. These factors were partially offset by lower sales of ADD Vantage&reg; diluents due to competitive drug supply issues. The net sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was driven primarily by growth in medication management systems. The growth in medication management systems was due primarily to increased placements of Hospiras newer technology Plum A+&reg; pumps with Hospira MedNet&reg; coupled with the impact of placements of Hospiras LifeCare PCA&reg; infusion system, which was launched in the first quarter of 2006. Net sales in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing were up slightly, driven by growth in demand for several existing and new products, partially offset by the impact of the termination of certain lower margin contracts. The decrease in U.S. net sales to Abbott was primarily due to decreased demand by Abbott for several of its products, partially offset by increased price. The Other product line includes sales of Hospiras products to alternate site providers such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, as well as sales of critical care devices and brain function monitoring systems. The increase in Other U.S. sales was primarily due to increased sales to alternate site healthcare customers including higher sales of anesthesia products, including recently introduced propofol; increased sales of pumps and sets; and other adjustments, partially offset by decreased sales of deferoxamine due to a competitive product launch and lower critical care sales. International net sales to Third Parties were up, primarily reflecting increased sales on a third party manufacturing contract, growth in Canada, and favorable exchange, partially offset by reduced volumes due to transition related supply chain disruptions and lower pricing to distributors compared to the prior Abbott direct sales model. International net sales to Abbott increased primarily due to increased price and increased demand by Abbott for several of its products. 41 Gross Profit Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 Gross profit $ 1,173,923 $ 939,243 $ 849,056 25.0 % 10.6 % As a percent of sales 34.2 % 34.9 % 32.3 % 2007 compared to 2006: Gross profit increased $234.7 million, or 25.0%, in 2007 compared to 2006. Of this increase, $200.3 million, or 21.3%, is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. Gross profit margin decreased by (0.7)% to 34.2% for 2007 from 34.9% in 2006. Of this decrease, (1.0)% is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma, which includes the inventory step up charge resulting from purchase accounting of (1.2)% and amortization of the acquired intangible assets of (1.0)%. The remaining change of 0.3% not related to the addition of Mayne Pharma is primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 0.3%, lower costs associated with the planned manufacturing plant closures of 0.3%, favorable price in the U.S. of 0.1%, and other net changes of 0.1%. These increases were partially offset by inflation and other manufacturing costs of (0.3)%, the impairment of the intangible asset related to the brain function monitoring devices of (0.1)%, and incremental freight and distribution costs of (0.1)%. 2006 compared to 2005: The increase in gross profit margin in 2006 was primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 2.0%, which includes the impact of the termination of the lower margin Berlex agreement of 0.7%; price in the U.S. of 0.7%; an asset impairment and obligations assumed in 2005 and reduction of the obligations in 2006 relating to the sale of the Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility of 0.9%; higher manufacturing performance of 0.5%; lower project expense of 0.4% and lower non recurring transition related costs of 0.3%. These improvements were partially offset by costs associated with the planned manufacturing plant closures of (1.4)% and incremental freight and distribution costs in the International segment of (0.8)%. Research and Development Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 Research and development expense $ 201,232 $ 161,621 $ 138,834 24.5 % 16.4 % As a percent of sales 5.9 % 6.0 % 5.3 % 2007 compared to 2006: Research and development ("R&D") expenses increased $39.6 million in 2007, compared to 2006. Of this increase, $47.2 million is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. Not including the addition of Mayne Pharma, R&D expenses decreased year over year due to the combination of upfront payments made in 2006 related to collaboration agreements for the development, manufacturing and distribution of biosimilar products, as well as lower spending in 2007 on medication delivery infusion systems projects as a result of new product launches. This was partially offset by higher spending on new product development related to new compounds in Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline and clinical trials on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;. 42 2006 compared to 2005: The increase in R&D expenses in 2006 was primarily due to upfront payments relating to collaboration agreements, spending on new product development and stock option expense as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Hospiras upfront payments relate to collaboration agreements for the development, manufacturing and distribution of biosimilar products. R&D spending on new product development related to new compounds in Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline and clinical studies on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;. These increases were partially offset by lower spending in 2006 on medication delivery infusion systems as a result of new product launches. Acquired In Process Research and Development On February 2, 2007, Hospira completed its acquisition of Mayne Pharma. As part of the purchase price allocation, Hospira allocated and expensed $84.8 million to acquired in process research and development related to Mayne Pharmas pipeline products. Additionally in late 2007, Hospira purchased certain clinical studies related to a compound that will be used to file for expanded medical indications. The cost for these clinical studies was $3.2 million and was recorded as acquired in process research and development expense in 2007 as the studies have no alternative future uses. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Hospira acquired BresaGen Limited, formerly an Australian public company. As part of the purchase price allocation, Hospira allocated and expensed $10.0 million to acquired in process research and development related to BresaGens pipeline products. Selling, General and Administrative Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 Selling, general and administrative expense $ 582,078 $ 428,038 $ 373,607 36.0 % 14.6 % As a percent of sales 16.9 % 15.9 % 14.2 % 2007 compared to 2006: Selling, general and administrative ("S,G&A") expenses increased $154.0 million in 2007, compared to 2006. Of this increase, $102.9 million is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to additional costs related to the integration of Mayne Pharma, partially offset by reduced costs due to the completion in 2006 of the implementation of Hospiras new independent infrastructure as a result of the spin off. 2006 compared to 2005: S,G&A expenses increased in 2006 partially related to stock option expense as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to additional costs related to establishment of Hospiras business infrastructure outside the U.S. and costs associated with the implementation of Hospiras new information technology system and related depreciation. Interest Expense Hospira incurred interest expense of $134.5 million in 2007, $31.0 million in 2006 and $28.3 million in 2005. The increase in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the issuance of additional debt and related costs due to the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The increase in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to higher interest rates on Hospiras floating rate debt (as a result of converting some of Hospiras debt from fixed to floating under the interest rate swap entered into in 2005), partially offset by higher capitalized interest in 2006. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, as 43 well as Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, for further information regarding Hospiras debt and credit facilities. Other Income, Net Other (income) and expense for 2007, 2006 and 2005 primarily includes amounts relating to foreign currency transaction gains and losses, interest income, and other items. Foreign exchange (gains) for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $(1.6) million, $(1.1) million and $(0.1) million, respectively. Included in 2007 is $5.7 million of foreign exchange losses realized due to the Mayne Pharma acquisition. Interest (income) for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $(15.1) million, $(17.1) million and $(15.1) million, respectively. In 2007, Hospira also had net gains on investments of $5.0 million. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate was 27.2% in 2007 and 26.8% in both 2006 and 2005. The effective tax rate for 2007 included the impact of a significant unusual item, the expensing of non deductible acquired in process research and development related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition of $84.8 million. Excluding the effect of this item, the 2007 effective tax rate was 18.7%, which includes certain non recurring items such as purchase accounting, integration and restructuring charges generating benefits in higher tax rate jurisdictions. The effective tax rate for 2006 also included the impact of a significant unusual item, the expensing of acquired in process research and development. Excluding the effect of this item, the 2006 effective tax rate was 26.0%. Included in 2005 is tax of $9.1 million related to the repatriation of $175.0 million of foreign earnings under the Jobs Act. Excluding the effect of the repatriation, the 2005 effective tax rate was 24.0%. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2007 compared to 2006, excluding both years significant unusual items, was due primarily to increased expenses in higher tax rate jurisdictions in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition, including intangible amortization expense, purchase accounting charges, and interest expense. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2006 compared to 2005, excluding the impact of expensing of acquired in process research and development in 2006, was due primarily to increased income generated in the U.S, which has a higher tax rate than foreign jurisdictions. The effective tax rates are less than the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate principally due to the benefit of tax exemptions, of varying durations, in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. Liquidity and Capital Resources Summary of Sources and (Uses) of Cash Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Operating activities $ 551,051 $ 424,190 $ 571,087 Investing activities (2,228,039 ) (251,236 ) (184,432 ) Financing activities 1,580,219 (377,728 ) 8,605 Operating Activities Net Cash from Operating Activities continues to be Hospiras primary source of funds to finance operating needs, capital expenditures and repayment of debt. Other capital resources include cash on hand, borrowing availability under Hospiras $375.0 million revolving credit facility and access to the capital markets. Beginning on February 2, 2007, Hospiras operating cash flows include operating cash flows generated by Mayne Pharma. During the two year period after the closing, Hospira expects to incur approximately $95 million to $110 million of cash expenditures relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma, which will reduce operating and investing cash flows. In addition, as a result of the debt incurred during the first quarter of 2007 to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition, Hospira must dedicate substantially greater cash to service debt obligations (including interest expense and mandatory 44 principal payments on the term loan described below) on an ongoing basis compared to past periods. Hospira believes that its current capital resources, including cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, funds available from its revolving credit facility and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to finance its operations, including debt service obligations, capital expenditures, product development and Mayne Pharma integration expenditures for the foreseeable future. In 2007, operating activities provided net cash of $551.1 million driven by net income of $136.8 million. Non cash depreciation, non cash amortization and impairment of intangible charges, the write off of acquired in process research and development, the step up value of acquired inventories sold, non cash stock based compensation expense and the net gains on sales of assets totaled $418.2 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities and Other, net of $(3.9) million consist primarily of payments made on acquired Mayne Pharma current liabilities, including merger advisory fees, and higher trade receivables due to increased sales, partially offset by lower inventory and higher trade payables. In 2006, operating activities provided net cash of $424.2 million, primarily driven by net income of $237.7 million, non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $156.7 million, non cash stock based compensation expense of $35.9 million, and the write off of acquired in process research and development of $10.0 million, offset by a pre tax gain on the sale of the Donegal, Ireland facility of $7.9 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $8.2 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of an increase in inventories, offset by an increase in trade accounts payable and other liabilities and changes in Other, net. The increase in inventory reflected planned normal inventory builds and additional safety stocks to support the business as manufacturing production transfers occur in connection with planned plant closings. Investing Activities In 2007, Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $2,228.0 million includes the acquisition of Mayne Pharma for $1,961.3 million, net of cash acquired and capital expenditures of $210.5 million. Also in connection with the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, Hospira entered into certain foreign currency forward exchange contracts to limit its exposure from currency movements of the Australian dollar. During 2007, Hospira paid $55.7 million for the settlements relating to these contracts. During 2007, Hospira paid $19.2 million for obligations related to acquisitions made by Mayne Pharma in prior years and $5.5 million for the purchase of certain intangible assets and other investments. These decreases were partially offset by proceeds from dispositions of certain product rights for $13.8 million and proceeds from the sales of marketable securities of $10.4 million. In 2006, Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $251.2 million includes capital expenditures of $235.0 million for upgrading and expanding manufacturing and administrative support facilities, and information technology systems. In addition, investing activities includes proceeds from the sale of the Donegal, Ireland and Montreal, Canada facilities of $19.3 million, the use of cash of $17.1 million for the acquisition of BresaGen and $18.4 million for the purchase of certain intangible assets and other investments. Financing Activities Net Cash From Financing Activities totaled $1,580.2 million in 2007. Hospira incurred $1,925.0 million of bank debt to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The bank facilities included a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility and a $1,425.0 million one year bridge loan facility. The bridge loan facility was completely refinanced on March 23, 2007 through the issuance of long term debt securities. During 2007, Hospira prepaid $359.7 million in principal amount of the term loan, in addition to the rescheduled $40.3 million in principal, for a total of $400.0 million. In addition, financing activities include proceeds from employee stock option exercises and related tax benefits of $75.4 million. 45  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities of $377.7 million in 2006 consists primarily of common stock repurchases of $299.8 million and payments to Abbott for international net assets of $126.2 million, offset by proceeds from employee stock option exercises and related tax benefits of $45.8 million, and an increase in other borrowing, net of $2.5 million. Summary of Financial Position Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Cash and cash equivalents $ 241,068 $ 322,045 $ 520,610 Working capital 1,046,731 916,664 964,929 Short term borrowings and long term debt 2,242,879 706,576 697,864 Working Capital The increase in working capital in 2007 was primarily due to an increase in trade receivables and inventory. These increases were partially offset by decreases in cash and increases in short term borrowings, trade payables, and liabilities related to accruals for employee incentive programs. The acquisition of Mayne Pharma increased overall working capital levels in 2007. The decrease in working capital in 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and an increase in income taxes payable. This is offset by an increase in inventory and prepaid expenses and other receivables, and a decrease in current portion of Due to Abbott, Net, which is principally related to the liability for the international net assets transferred from Abbott, and decreases in liabilities related to accruals for employee incentive programs. Debt and Capital Mayne Pharma Acquisition. On February 1, 2007, Hospira incurred $1,925.0 million of bank debt to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The remainder of the purchase price was funded with cash on hand. The bank facilities included a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility and a $1,425.0 million one year bridge loan facility. The bridge loan facility was completely refinanced on March 23, 2007 through the issuance of long term debt securities described below. Under the three year term loan facility, before giving effect to any prepayments (which reduce the repayment amounts on a pro rata basis), Hospira was required to repay $12.5 million in principal at the end of each quarter in 2007. Hospira must repay $50.0 million at the end of each quarter in 2008 and $62.5 million at the end of each quarter in 2009 (with the final payment to be made on the maturity date of January 15, 2010). Hospira is permitted to prepay amounts borrowed under the term loan from time to time without penalty. During 2007, Hospira prepaid $359.7 million in principal amount of the term loan, in addition to the rescheduled $40.3 million in principal, for a total of $400.0 million. The $40.3 million of payments in principal reflect a reduction in original mandatory payments due to prepayments made in 2007. As a result of the prepayments made in 2007, the amount due within one year is $44.4 million, and is recorded as short term borrowings. Borrowings under the term loan facility and bridge loan facility bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin that is determined based on Hospiras senior unsecured debt ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys. Based on Hospiras ratings of BBB (stable outlook) from Standard & Poors and Baa3 (negative outlook) from Moodys, the margin is currently 0.60%. Ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 46 On March 23, 2007, Hospira issued $375.0 million principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due in 2010, $500.0 million principal amount of 5.55% Notes due in 2012 and $550.0 million principal amount of 6.05% Notes due in 2017 in a registered public offering. The Floating Rate Notes due 2010 bear interest at three month LIBOR plus 48 basis points. All series of notes are due on March 30 of the year of maturity. The net proceeds of the notes (after deducting approximately $10.0 million of underwriters discounts and offering expenses of $4.2 million), together with approximately $21.5 million of cash on hand, were used to repay the bridge loan facility and related interest in full. Revolving Credit Facility. Hospira has a five year $375.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), which it entered into on December 16, 2005, and amended on January 15, 2007. The Revolver was amended to permit the Mayne Pharma acquisition and to temporarily increase the maximum leverage ratio and lower the minimum interest coverage ratio. The Revolver is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. Borrowings under the Revolver bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, plus a utilization fee if borrowings under the Revolver exceed 50% of the aggregate amount of committed loans. Hospira is also required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate amount of committed loans. The annual rates for the LIBOR margin, the utilization fee and the facility fee are 0.60%, 0.075% and 0.10%, respectively, as of December 31, 2007, and are subject to increase or decrease if there is a change in Hospiras current credit ratings. The amount of available borrowings may be increased to a maximum of $500.0 million, and the term may be increased for up to two additional years, under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had no amounts borrowed or otherwise outstanding under the Revolver. The Revolver and the indenture governing Hospiras senior unsecured notes (which includes the Mayne Pharma Debt and the $700 million senior unsecured notes) contain, among other provisions, covenants with which Hospira must comply while they are in force. The covenants in the Revolver limit Hospiras ability to, among other things, sell assets, incur indebtedness and liens, incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level and merge or consolidate with other companies. The covenants in the indenture governing Hospiras senior unsecured notes limit Hospiras ability, among other things, to incur unsecured indebtedness, enter into certain sales and lease transactions and merge or consolidate with other companies. Hospiras debt instruments also include customary events of default, which would permit amounts borrowed to be accelerated and would permit the lenders under the revolving credit agreement to terminate their lending commitments. A description of certain covenants is set forth below. Change of Control. The notes issued on March 23, 2007 include covenants that require Hospira to offer to repurchase those notes at 101% of their principal amount if: (1) there is a change of control of Hospira and (2) Hospira is rated below investment grade by both Moodys and Standard & Poors at or within a specified time after the time of announcement of the change of control transaction. A change of control, as described above, would constitute an event of cross default under the term loan agreement and Hospiras revolving credit agreement. Financial Covenants. Hospiras term loan facility and revolving credit facility include requirements to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. The leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Hospiras debt by its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (excluding certain purchase accounting charges relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma into Hospira, expenses relating to Hospiras transition from Abbott, expenses relating to Hospiras manufacturing optimization activities and certain non cash gains, expenses and losses, subject in certain cases to agreed upon maximums) for the twelve months ending on the last day of each quarter. The coverage ratio is calculated by dividing Hospiras earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (excluding the items described above) by 47 its consolidated financing expense (interest expense and net capitalized interest), in each case for the twelve months ended on the last day of each quarter. The maximum leverage ratio is 3.25 as of December 31, 2007, and for all periods thereafter. The minimum coverage ratio is 5.00 as of December 31, 2007, and for all periods thereafter. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira was in compliance with all applicable covenants. Senior Notes. Hospira has approximately $700.0 million of senior unsecured notes outstanding, including $300.0 million of 4.95% notes due in 2009 and $400.0 million of 5.90% notes due in 2014. The 4.95% notes were effectively converted to floating rate notes through interest rate swaps with various counterparties. The senior notes contain customary covenants that limit Hospiras ability to incur secured indebtedness and liens and merge or consolidate with other companies. Other Borrowings. In connection with the acquisition of Mayne Phama in the first quarter of 2007, Hospira assumed a $1.4 million bank term loan which bears a fixed rate of interest of 3.75%, with principal and interest due semi annually, ending in June 2009, of which $1.1 million is classified as short term. Additionally, Hospira assumed a $4.6 million unsecured loan, of which $4.5 million is classified as short term. This loan bears a fixed rate of 1.0% with payments due annually, ending in September 2009. In connection with the acquisition of BresaGen in the fourth quarter of 2006, Hospira assumed a $5.4 million mortgage note that is secured by land and building, of which $0.6 million is classified as short term. The agreement bears a fixed rate of interest of 7.47%, with payments of principal and interest due quarterly, ending in March 2015. In March 2005, Hospira issued economic development promissory notes, the proceeds of which were used for a distribution facility expansion. The $1.75 million ten year notes bear a fixed rate of interest of 2.0%, with principal and interest due monthly. Hospiras foreign affiliates have entered into various loan agreements in their local currency, which are used to optimize the capital structure. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, Hospira had $7.7 million and $8.8 million of such loans outstanding, respectively, of which $7.7 million and $3.9 million were classified as short term, respectively. Transfer of International Net Assets from Abbott. In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the U.S. would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. During the transition period, these operations and assets were used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira was subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira was obligated to pay Abbott for these operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, over a two year period after the spin off date as Hospira established its business infrastructure outside the U.S. and obtained regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The transfers were completed in the second quarter of 2006. The total amounts paid in 2006 and 2005 were $126.2 million and $116.7 million, respectively. Share Repurchase. In February 2006, Hospiras board of directors authorized the repurchase of $400.0 million of Hospiras common stock. The program authorizes Hospira to repurchase common shares from time to time through the open market in compliance with securities regulations and other legal requirements. The size and timing of any purchases are at the discretion of company management, based on factors such as alternative uses of cash, and business and market conditions. The repurchase of shares commenced in early March 2006. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira 48 repurchased 7,584,400 shares for $299.8 million in the aggregate under the 2006 board authorization, all of which were purchased during 2006. Since Hospira intends to dedicate a substantial portion of its future cash to servicing its debt and integrating Mayne Pharma into its operations, Hospira does not expect to repurchase any shares in 2008. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes Hospiras estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payment Due by Period (dollars in millions) Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and Thereafter Long term debt and interest payments $ 2,932.5 $ 187.5 $ 949.5 $ 657.7 $ 1,137.8 Lease obligations 168.1 32.4 53.4 42.7 39.6 Purchase commitments(1) 423.1 410.4 11.8 0.9 Other long term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet(2) 174.6 141.3 33.3 Funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006(3) 52.6 17.8 22.4 12.4 Total $ 3,750.9 $ 630.3 $ 1,173.8 $ 757.0 $ 1,189.8 (1)Purchase obligations for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital requirements. Hospira has committed to make potential future "milestone" payments to third parties as part of in licensing and development agreements. Payments under these agreements are contingent upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and or commercial milestones and are not included in the table above. (2)Includes liability of $144.5 million relating to unrecognized tax benefits, penalties and interest: excludes approximately $135.5 million of other long term liabilities related primarily to post retirement benefit obligations. (3)To meet the funding rules of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the estimated minimum required contribution amounts are set forth in the table above. While Hospiras funding policy requires contributions to our defined benefit plans equal to the amounts necessary to, at a minimum, satisfy the funding requirements as prescribed by the laws and regulations of each country, Hospira does make discretionary contributions when management determines it is prudent to do so. Hospira does not currently expect to contribute to its main U.S. pension plan in 2008. Hospiras commercial commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, primarily consist of non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had $21.1 million of outstanding letters of credit, with a majority expiring in 2008. No amounts have been drawn on these letters of credit. Hospira has no material exposures to off balance sheet arrangements, no special purpose entities, and no activities that include non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value. 49 Recently Issued Accounting Standards In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51" ("SFAS No. 160"). SFAS No. 160 states that accounting and reporting for minority interests will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. SFAS No. 160 also establishes reporting requirements that provide sufficient disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS No. 160 applies to all entities that prepare consolidated financial statements, except not for profit organizations, but will affect only those entities that have an outstanding noncontrolling interest in one or more subsidiaries or that deconsolidate a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of SFAS No. 160 on its financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), "Business Combinations" ("SFAS No. 141R"). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for the reporting entity in a business combination, including recognition and measurement in the financial statements of the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. This statement also establishes disclosure requirements to enable financial statement users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of SFAS No. 141R on its financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 07 1, "Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements" ("EITF 07 1"). EITF 07 1 provides guidance on how to determine whether an arrangement constitutes a collaborative arrangement, how costs incurred and revenue generated on sales to third parties should be reported by the participants in a collaborative arrangement, how payments made between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be characterized, and what participants should disclose in the notes to the financial statements about a collaborative arrangement. EITF 07 1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of EITF 07 1 on its financial statements. In June 2007, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07 3, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development Activities" ("EITF 07 3"). EITF 07 03 states that nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities should be deferred and capitalized. Such amounts should be recognized as an expense as the related goods are delivered or the related services performed. If it is not expected that the goods will be delivered or services will be rendered, the capitalized advance payment should be charged to expense in the period in which such determination is made. EITF 07 3 is effective for new contracts entered into in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of EITF 07 3 on its financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" ("SFAS No. 159"). SFAS No. 159 provides a company with the option to measure selected financial instruments and certain other items at fair value at specified election dates. The election may be applied on an item by item basis, with disclosure regarding reasons for partial election and additional information about items selected for fair value option. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of SFAS No. 159 on its financial statements. 50 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing an asset or liability and establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop those assumptions. Under the standard, fair value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Hospira does not anticipate that the impact of SFAS No. 157 will be significant on its financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). One provision of SFAS No. 158 requires the measurement of Hospiras defined benefit plans assets and its obligations to determine the funded status be made as of the end of the fiscal year. This provision of SFAS No. 158 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. Hospira does not anticipate that the impact from the adoption of this provision of SFAS No. 158 will be significant to its financial statements.  Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instrument and Risk Management Hospira operates globally, and earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Upon consideration of management objectives, costs and opportunities, Hospira uses derivative instruments, including foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to manage these risks. Hospira enters into derivative instrument contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions to limit the amount of credit exposure to nonperformance by any one institution. Hospira does not utilize derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras operations are exposed to currency exchange rate risk, which is mitigated by Hospiras use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts ("forward contracts"). The objective in managing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Currency exposures include third party trade payables and receivables, and intercompany loans where the asset or liability is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. Forward contract gains and losses on these exposures substantially offset the remeasurement of the related asset or liability, and both are included in other income, net. In addition, currency exposures exist for certain subsidiaries for anticipated intercompany purchases, firm commitments, and third party forecasted transactions expected to be denominated in a foreign currency due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Forward contract gains and losses related to such exposures are also included in other income, net during the term of the forward contract, as they are not formally designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Net forward contract (income) expense for the year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $3.4 million, $(2.0) million and $(0.5) million, respectively, and are included in other income, net in the consolidated statements of income. The carrying value and fair value of forward contracts was a net payable of $10.6 million and $5.3 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 51 Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras primary interest rate exposures relate to cash and cash equivalents, and fixed and variable rate debt. The objective in managing exposure to changes in interest rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Hospiras investment portfolio of $264.8 million at December 31, 2007 consists of cash and cash equivalents, equity investments in affiliated companies, and cost investments, primarily consisting of marketable securities which are classified as "available for sale." For marketable securities, any gains or losses will not be recognized in Hospiras statements of income until the investment is sold or if there is a reduction in fair value that is determined to be an other than temporary impairment. The carrying value of the investment portfolio approximates fair market value at December 31, 2007 and the value at maturity, as the majority of investments consist of securities with maturities of less than three months. Because Hospiras investments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates, based on average cash and cash equivalents during the year, would increase/(decrease) interest income by approximately $2.8 million. Hospira has a Revolver that allows borrowings up to $375.0 million for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. The amount of available borrowings under the Revolver may be increased to a maximum of $500.0 million, and the term may be increased for up to two additional years, under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had no amounts outstanding under the Revolver. In conjunction with the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, on March 23, 2007, Hospira issued $375.0 million principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due in 2010 that bear interest at a three month LIBOR plus 48 basis points. A hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $3.8 million. Also, on February 1, 2007, Hospira incurred a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility bearing interest at LIBOR plus a margin that is determined based on Hospiras senior unsecured debt ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys. As of December 31, 2007 the outstanding balance on the term loan was $100.0 million. A hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $1.0 million. In conjunction with the spin off from Abbott, on June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an underwritten offering of a consolidated $700.0 million aggregate principal amount consisting of $300.0 million five year senior unsecured notes and $400.0 million 10 year senior unsecured notes, both of which bear a fixed rate of interest. In January 2005, Hospira entered into interest rate swap transactions whereby the $300.0 million five year senior unsecured notes due in June 2009 were effectively converted from fixed to floating rate debt. Hospira records the interest rate swap contracts at fair value and offsets the carrying amount of the fixed rate debt by the same amount. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(0.2) million and $(8.2) million, respectively. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2007 and 2006, this estimated fair value represents the amount that Hospira would have to pay to counterparties. As a result of converting from fixed to floating rate debt, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $3.0 million. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above, as well as Notes 5 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K, for further information. 52   
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company that develops, manufactures and markets products that help improve the safety, cost and productivity of patient care. Hospiras portfolio includes one of the industrys broadest lines of generic acute care and oncology injectables, which help address the high cost of proprietary pharmaceuticals; and integrated solutions for medication management and infusion therapy. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities. In February 2007, Hospira acquired Mayne Pharma to increase its global presence in specialty generic injectable pharmaceuticals. Transition from Abbott Hospira became a separate public company pursuant to a spin off from Abbott on April 30, 2004 (the "spin off date"). In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the United States would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. During the transition period, these operations and assets were used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira was subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira was dependent on Abbotts international infrastructure until such legal transfers occurred in each international country. These transfers were completed in 2006. Hospira and Abbott entered into various manufacture and supply agreements prior to the spin off under which Hospira supplies certain products to Abbott that it manufactured prior to the spin off. These agreements had an initial two year term (originally scheduled to expire in April 2006), subject to being extended by Abbott for an additional two year term under substantially similar contractual provisions. Some of these agreements terminated in 2006, resulting in lower sales to Abbott during 2006 and 2007. Cost Reduction Activities As part of its strategy to improve margins and cash flows, beginning in 2005, Hospira has taken a number of actions to reduce operating costs and optimize its manufacturing capabilities and capacity. In May 2005, to reduce its costs to produce critical care products, Hospira completed a strategic manufacturing, commercialization and development agreement with ICU Medical and sold its Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility and related equipment and inventory to ICU Medical. In connection with these transactions, during 2005, Hospira recorded an impairment charge of $2.4 million and a loss of $13.4 million, which was Hospiras best estimate of the cost of certain obligations that Hospira was required to reimburse to ICU Medical over the 24 month period after closing. Both the impairment and the loss related to obligations assumed were recorded in cost of products sold. During 2007 and 2006, Hospira reduced its liability by $1.6 million and $6.8 million, respectively, due to a change in ICU Medicals strategy for the manufacturing facility that reduced Hospiras related obligation. In August 2005, Hospira announced plans to close its manufacturing plant in Donegal, Ireland and closed the facility late in 2006. Products produced at the Donegal plant have been moved to Hospira facilities primarily in Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic. At the time of the announcement, Hospira expected to incur $30 million to $40 million of pre tax charges relating to the plant closure. During 2005, 2006 and 2007, Hospira incurred $8.5 million, $21.9 million and $0.7 million of these charges, respectively, which are reported in cost of products sold. The costs consist primarily of severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the building and certain equipment, and other exit costs. For further details regarding the 32 financial impact of this plant closure, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In February 2006, Hospira announced plans to close manufacturing plants in Ashland, Ohio and Montreal, Canada over the subsequent 18 to 28 months, respectively, and also provided a timeline for phasing out production at a facility in Abbotts North Chicago, Illinois campus, where it has leased space from its former parent company since the spin off in April 2004. Hospira intends to transition out of this facility in advance of the leases expiration in 2014, with a majority of the product transfers occurring over the four years following the announcement. Hospira will transfer production of the primary products from these facilities to other Hospira facilities and will outsource certain product components to third party suppliers. As of December 31, 2007, the Ashland, Ohio manufacturing plant was closed and Hospira expects to close the Montreal, Canada manufacturing plant by the end of the first half of 2008. The aggregate charges that Hospira will incur related to the plant closings are expected to be in the range of approximately $95 million to $110 million on a pre tax basis, of which approximately $45 million to $55 million are expected to be reported as restructuring charges. The restructuring costs consist primarily of costs related to severance and other employee benefit costs, additional depreciation resulting from the decreased useful lives of the buildings and certain equipment, and other exit costs. The remaining charges relate to the relocation of production. During 2007 and 2006, Hospira incurred $13.6 million and $21.7 million of restructuring charges, respectively, which are recorded in cost of products sold. For further details regarding the financial impact of these plant closures, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. These cost reduction activities involve risks and uncertainties as relocating or outsourcing production is a complex process. Hospira may incur more charges than estimated and may not realize the expected cost savings on its planned time frame or at all. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Hospiras Business and Industry Hospiras cost reduction activities have resulted in significant charges. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended cost savings." Acquisition of Mayne Pharma On February 2, 2007, Hospira completed its acquisition of Mayne Pharma for $2,055.0 million. As Mayne Pharma has strong market positions in Europe and Australia and a significant commercial infrastructure outside the United States, the acquisition has substantially increased Hospiras international presence. The acquisition has also broadened Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceuticals product line. The results of operations of Mayne Pharma are included in Hospiras results for periods on and after February 2, 2007, which has affected comparability of the financial statements for the periods presented in this report and will affect comparability in future periods. For 2007, sales of Mayne Pharma products, which are principally specialty injectable pharmaceutical products, are reported as a separate product line within each of Hospiras reportable segments. In connection with the acquisition, Hospira recorded $137.9 million of charges relating to purchase accounting during 2007, including $84.8 million of acquired in process research and development, all of which was recorded in the first quarter, and $53.1 million of inventory step up charges, of which $21.4 million was expensed in the first quarter and $31.7 million was expensed in the second quarter. Hospira also recorded $518.2 million of intangible assets in connection with the acquisition, which will be amortized over their useful lives (which have a weighted average life of 10 years). For further details regarding these charges, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In connection with the integration of Mayne Pharma into its operations, Hospira expects to incur approximately $95 million to $110 million of cash expenditures for the two year period after the closing, of which $60 million to $75 million will be recorded as expense and the remainder relates to purchase accounting items and capital projects. These expenses relate to the closure of facilities, 33 termination of lease agreements and employee related benefit arrangements during the two year period after the closing. Approximately $73.3 million of cash expenditures and $43.8 million of such expenses were recorded during 2007. In addition to integration expenses, Hospira recorded other acquisition related expenses of $6.5 million in 2007. For further details regarding these expenses, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. The total purchase price of $2,055.0 million is comprised of $2,042.3 million of cash purchase price and $12.7 million of direct acquisition costs. On February 1, 2007, Hospira incurred $1,925.0 million of bank debt to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The remainder of the purchase price was funded with cash on hand. The bank facilities included a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility and a $1,425.0 million one year bridge loan facility. The bridge loan facility was completely refinanced on March 23, 2007 through the issuance of long term debt securities. For further details, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. On an ongoing basis, Hospira will continue to incur significantly greater interest expense than it incurred in prior periods, and will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to servicing its debt. Please refer to "Liquidity and Capital Resources Debt and Capital" later in this Item 7 for further details. The acquisition of Mayne Pharma is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including risks relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma and risks relating to our incurring substantial indebtedness in connection with the acquisition. Please see "Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Mayne Pharma Acquisition and Related Transactions." Other Factors Manufacturing and Quality. Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell high quality, low cost products in compliance with regulatory requirements is an important factor to the success of its business. Hospira must comply with regulations governing the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of its products, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, and must incur expense, time and effort to ensure compliance with the complex regulations. Hospira must also maintain continuity of supply of raw materials that comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Its business is subject to risks of manufacturing and supply interruptions, and product quality issues, which can lead to product recalls or field actions. Hospira did not experience significant manufacturing or raw material supply interruptions during the periods presented in this report. Hospira has recalled, and or conducted field alerts relating to, certain of its products from time to time. While these activities can lead to costs to repair or replace affected products and temporary interruptions in product sales, and can impact reported results of operations in the applicable period, Hospira does not believe that these activities had a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations during the periods presented in this report. Product Development. Hospira views investment in research and development as an important driver of sales growth over the longer term. To successfully execute its product development strategy, Hospira must continue to develop cost competitive products and enhancements that satisfy customer needs, introduce products on a timely basis and successfully market those products. As a part of this strategy, Hospira will also need to identify, and successfully manage, strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements. Hospira believes that the ability to grow sales in the specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line will be driven primarily by its ability to launch new generic drug products on a timely basis. Generally, the price and sales volume of a generic drug tend to decline as more competitors enter the market for that particular drug. However, new product launches can offset declines from other portfolio products and generate growth. If a company can be "first to market," such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved. Timely, efficient research and development capabilities and expertise in legal and regulatory matters will be required to be successful in executing a "first to market" strategy. Over the longer term, 34 Hospira views biosimilar products as an important opportunity. In 2006, Hospira invested in biosimilar product development through its collaboration with STADA, under which it made a $21.7 million upfront payment, and its $17.1 million acquisition of BresaGen Limited. A key component to the product development strategy for medication management systems has been the development and offering of newer technology drug delivery pumps and related products and services. Hospira expects to achieve sales growth in part due to increased sales of these newer technology products. Hospira believes that the features and functionality offered by these products position it to achieve such growth over the long term. As a result, Hospira is aggressively competing to upgrade its current customer base as well as to capture competitive business. Because of changes in technology, it may take more time and effort to sell and implement newer technology products to its customers. Hospira also expects intense competition for existing and potential customers from other competitors. The timing and amount of purchases made by customers cannot be predicted with certainty. Hospiras ability to execute on its product development efforts is subject to various risks and uncertainties described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors," including the ability to timely launch new products and enhancements, the ability to successfully manage collaborative arrangements, actions of competitors and acceptance by customers. GPO Contracts. The ability to maintain GPO contracts is an important factor for Hospira to generate sales. Approximately 43% of Hospiras net sales are made through these contracts. Typically, these contracts cover a portion of Hospiras product lines, specify the prices for Hospiras products, and are effective for three to five years. Generally, the contracts are extended or competitively bid prior to contract expiration. In any year, a portion of the various contracts Hospira has with GPOs expire. While Hospira expects to maintain its business with the GPOs and has been able to maintain its base business under its GPO contracts during the periods covered by this report, if Hospira is unable to renew or renegotiate any significant GPO contracts in the future, its ability to sell products and its profitability may be harmed. Share Repurchase. In February 2006, Hospiras board of directors approved a $400.0 million share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira purchased 7,584,400 shares for $299.8 million in aggregate under the 2006 board authorization, all of which were purchased during 2006. Since Hospira intends to dedicate a substantial portion of its future cash to servicing debt and integrating Mayne Pharma into its operations, Hospira does not expect to repurchase any shares in 2008. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are those policies that require management to make the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive to result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Hospira believes its most critical accounting policies are those described below. For a detailed discussion of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Revenue Recognition Hospira recognizes revenues from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed and determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. For other than certain drug delivery pumps and injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing, product revenue is recognized when products are delivered to customers and title passes. In certain circumstances, Hospira enters into arrangements in which it provides multiple elements to its customers. In these cases, total revenue is divided among the separate units of accounting (deliverables) based on their relative fair value and is recognized for each deliverable in accordance with the applicable revenue recognition criteria. The recognition of revenue is delayed if there are significant post delivery obligations, such as installation or customer acceptance. 35 For drug delivery pumps, revenue is typically derived under one of three types of arrangements: outright sales of the drug delivery pump; placements under lease arrangements; and placements under contracts that include associated disposable set purchases. Lease agreements under which Hospiras warranty obligation extends through the entire term are accounted for as operating leases. For these, Hospira recognizes revenue over the lease term, which averages five years. For leases under which Hospiras warranty obligation is limited to approximately one year, Hospira accounts for these as sales type leases, under which the discounted sales value of the drug delivery pump is recorded as revenue upon placement with the customer. Hospira has contractual arrangements with certain customers whereby it places drug delivery pumps at customer sites, and the customers agree to purchase minimum levels of disposable products (sets) that are used with the pumps. These arrangements generally do not include any upfront fees or payments. The contractual arrangements generally set forth fixed prices for the purchases of the disposable products, where the prices for the disposables do not change over the term of the arrangement, other than, in some cases, for changes in Consumer Price Index provisions. Title for the pumps is retained by Hospira throughout these arrangements, and the related asset is depreciated over its estimated useful life on a straight line basis. In these placement arrangements, revenue is recognized as the disposable products are delivered, in accordance with SFAS No. 48, "Revenue Recognition when Right of Return Exists," and Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 104, "Revenue Recognition." Hospira markets a server based suite of software applications designed to connect data from a hospitals drug information library to drug delivery pumps throughout the hospital. The arrangements related to such applications typically include a perpetual software license, software maintenance and implementation services. Hospira recognizes revenue related to these arrangements in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Position ("SOP") 97 2, "Software Revenue Recognition," as amended. Software license revenue and implementation service revenue are generally recognized upon completion of related obligations or customer acceptance and software maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period. Injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing involves filling customers active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API") into delivery systems. Under these arrangements, customers API is often consigned to Hospira and revenue is recorded for the materials and labor provided by Hospira, plus a profit, upon shipment to the customer. Upon recognizing revenue from a sale, Hospira records an estimate for certain items that reduce gross sales in arriving at its reported net sales for each period. These items include chargebacks, rebates and other items (such as cash discounts and returns). Provisions for chargebacks and rebates represent the most significant and complex of these estimates. Chargebacks Hospira sells a significant portion of its specialty injectable pharmaceutical products through wholesalers, which maintain inventories of Hospira products and later sell those products to end customers. In connection with its sales and marketing efforts, Hospira negotiates prices with end customers for certain products under pricing agreements (including, for example, group purchasing organization contracts). Consistent with industry practice, the negotiated end customer prices are typically lower than the prices charged to the wholesalers. When an end customer purchases a Hospira product that is covered by a pricing agreement from a wholesaler, the end customer pays the wholesaler the price determined under the pricing agreement. The wholesaler is then entitled to charge Hospira back for the difference between the price the wholesaler paid Hospira and the contract price paid by the end customer (a "chargeback"). This process is necessary to enable Hospira to track actual sales to the end customer, which is essential information to run the business effectively. Settlement of chargebacks generally occurs between 30 and 40 days after the sale to wholesalers. To account for the chargeback, Hospira records the initial sale to a wholesaler at the price invoiced to the wholesaler and at the same time, records a provision equal to the estimated amount the 36 wholesaler will later charge back to Hospira, reducing gross sales and trade receivables. This provision must be estimated because the actual end customer and applicable pricing terms may vary at the time of the sale to the wholesaler. Accordingly, the most significant estimates inherent in the initial chargeback provision relate to the volume of sales to the wholesalers that will be subject to chargeback and the ultimate end customer contract price. These estimates are based primarily on an analysis of Hospiras product sales and most recent historical average chargeback credits by product, estimated wholesaler inventory levels, current contract pricing, anticipated future contract pricing changes and claims processing lag time. Hospira estimates the levels of inventory at the wholesalers through analysis of wholesaler purchases and inventory data obtained directly from certain of the wholesalers. A one percent decrease in end customer contract prices for sales in the U.S. pending chargeback at December 31, 2007 would decrease net sales and income before income taxes by $1.4 million. A one percent increase in wholesale units sold in the U.S. subject to chargebacks at December 31, 2007 would decrease net sales and income before income taxes by $1.8 million. Hospira regularly monitors the provision for chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes the actual chargebacks may differ from estimates. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, chargebacks of $73.6 million and $42.9 million, respectively, were recorded as a reduction in trade receivables. 2007 includes the addition of Mayne Pharma. The methodology used to estimate and provide for chargebacks was consistent across all periods presented. Rebates Hospira primarily offers rebates to direct customers, customers who purchase from certain wholesalers at end customer contract prices and government agencies, which administer various programs such as Medicaid. Direct rebates are generally rebates paid to direct purchasing customers based on a contracted discount applied to the direct customers purchases. Indirect rebates are rebates paid to "indirect customers" that have purchased Hospira products from a wholesaler under a pricing agreement with Hospira. Governmental agency rebates are amounts owed based on legal requirements with public sector benefit providers (such as Medicaid), after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases. Hospira estimates the amount of the rebate due at the time of sale, and records the liability and a reduction of gross sales at the same time the product sale is recorded. Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from one to 15 months after sale. In determining provisions for rebates to direct customers, Hospira considers the volume of eligible purchases by these customers and the rebate terms. In determining rebates on sales through wholesalers, Hospira considers the volume of eligible contract purchases, the rebate terms and the estimated level of inventory at the wholesalers that would be subject to a rebate, which is estimated as described above under "Chargebacks." Upon receipt of a chargeback, due to the availability of product and customer specific information, Hospira can then establish a specific provision for fees or rebates based on the specific terms of each agreement. Rebates under governmental programs are based on the estimated volume of products sold subject to these programs. Each period the estimates are reviewed and revised, if necessary, in conjunction with a review of contract volumes within the period. Adjustments related to prior period sales have not been material in any period. Hospira regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to recorded reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, accrued rebates of $106.5 million and $65.1 million, respectively, are included in other accrued liabilities. 2007 includes the addition of Mayne Pharma. The methodology used to estimate and provide for rebates was consistent across all periods presented. 37 The following table is an analysis of chargebacks and rebates for 2007 and 2006. In each year, the provisions for chargebacks and rebates relating to prior period sales were not material. (dollars in thousands) Chargebacks Rebates Balance at January 1, 2006 $ 64,184 $ 83,537 Provisions 561,101 126,774 Payments (582,379 ) (145,223 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 42,906 65,088 Provisions 661,012 160,046 Payments (630,279 ) (118,653 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 73,639 $ 106,481 Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, Hospira adopted SFAS No. 123R, "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123R") which requires, among other changes, that the cost resulting from all share based payment transactions be recognized as compensation cost over the vesting period based on the fair value of the instrument on the date of grant. Under SFAS No. 123R, Hospira uses the Black Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of stock options. The fair value model includes various assumptions, including the expected volatility and expected life of the awards. These assumptions reflect Hospiras best estimates, but they involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside of Hospiras control. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, stock based compensation expense, as calculated and recorded under SFAS No. 123R, could have been materially impacted. Furthermore, if Hospira uses different assumptions in future periods, stock based compensation expense could be materially impacted in future periods. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for additional information regarding stock based compensation. Pension and Post Retirement Benefits Hospira provides pension and post retirement medical and dental benefits to certain of its active and retired employees based both in and outside of the United States. Prior to the spin off date, Hospira employees participated in Abbott benefit plans that provided pension and post retirement benefits. For financial reporting purposes, Hospira develops assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, and healthcare cost trend rate. For these assumptions, management consults with actuaries, monitors plan provisions and demographics, and reviews public market data and general economic information. These assumptions reflect Hospiras best estimates, but they involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside of Hospiras control. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, pension and post retirement benefit expense, could have been materially impacted. The U.S. discount rate estimate for 2007 and 2006 were developed with the assistance of yield curves developed by third party actuaries, while prior year estimates used Moodys Aa corporate bond index, with consideration of differences in duration between the bonds in the index and Hospiras benefit liabilities. For non U.S. plans, benchmark yield data for high quality fixed income investments for which the timing and amounts of payments match the timing and amounts of projected benefit payments were used to derive discount rate assumptions. The expected rate of return for the pension plan represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return on plan assets is developed from the expected future return of each asset class, weighted by the expected allocation of pension assets to that asset class. Hospira considers historical performance for the types of assets in which the plans invest, independent market forecasts, and economic and capital market conditions. The healthcare cost trend rate assumption for 2007 was 7.5% for pre 65 and 9.0% for post 65 years of age employees, with both rates declining to 5% by 2013 and 2016, respectively. A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate, with other assumptions held constant, would increase/(decrease) the service and interest component of net post retirement medical and dental cost for the year ended December 31, 2007 by approximately $0.3/($0.3) million, 38 and would increase/(decrease) the accumulated post retirement benefit obligation by approximately $6.7/($5.7) million. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). One provision of SFAS No. 158 requires full recognition of the funded status of Hospiras defined benefit and post retirement plans. The incremental effect of the application of this provision in 2006 is provided in Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Another provision of SFAS No. 158 requires the measurement of Hospiras defined benefit plans assets and its obligations to determine the funded status be made as of the end of the fiscal year. This provision of SFAS No. 158 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. Hospira does not anticipate that the impact from the adoption of this provision of SFAS No. 158 will be significant to its financial statements. Impairment of Long Lived Assets The carrying value of long lived assets, including intangible assets and property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is generally determined by comparing projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the assets net book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted. Determining the extent of an impairment, if any, typically requires various estimates and assumptions using managements judgment, including cash flows directly attributable to the asset, the useful life of the asset and residual value, if any. When necessary, Hospira uses internal cash flow estimates, quoted market prices and appraisals as appropriate to determine fair value. Actual results could vary from these estimates. In addition, the remaining useful life of the impaired asset is revised, if necessary. Loss Contingencies Hospira accounts for contingent losses in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"). Under SFAS No. 5, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at managements best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information is known. Accordingly, if Hospira is initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. Income Taxes Hospiras provision for income taxes is based on taxable income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which Hospira operates. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Such liabilities are based on managements judgment, utilizing internal and external tax advisors, and represent the best estimate as to the likely outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of changes to unrecognized tax benefits. Each quarter, Hospira reviews the anticipated mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions and its associated liabilities in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"). Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effect of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements at the enacted statutory rate expected to be in effect when the taxes are paid. Provision for income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided for on undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries when Hospira intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely to fund foreign acquisitions or to meet working capital and plant and equipment acquisition needs. See further discussion regarding the impact on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as a result of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Jobs Act") in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Hospira has been providing for income taxes based on its independent activities after the separation from Abbott. These estimates might change in future periods as Hospira develops its own tax filing history and considers the results of tax authority examinations. 39  Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales increased 27.8% in 2007 compared to 2006. Of this increase, 23.7% is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. The remaining 4.1% increase in overall net sales is primarily driven by favorable volume/mix of 2.6%, the impact of foreign exchange of 0.9%, and increased price of 0.5% in the United States. Net sales increased 2.4% in 2006 compared to 2005. Sales to third parties represented a 2.7% increase in overall net sales, driven by favorable volume/mix of 1.5%, which includes the unfavorable impact of the Berlex contract termination of (2.6)%, increased price of 0.9% in the United States, and the impact of foreign exchange of 0.3%. Sales to Abbott had an unfavorable impact of (0.3)% on overall net sales, driven primarily by demand, partially offset by increased price. During the first half of 2005, the agreement under which Hospira distributed Berlex imaging agents was terminated, resulting in lower sales from 2005 to 2006. A comparison of product line sales is as follows: Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 U.S. Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals $ 875,619 $ 807,557 $ 845,291 8.4 % (4.5 )% Medication Delivery Systems 890,005 855,483 796,360 4.0 % 7.4 % Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing 149,032 183,266 178,777 (18.7 )% 2.5 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 74,711 90,464 104,747 (17.4 )% (13.6 )% Mayne Pharma 101,284 nm nm Other 283,447 283,731 262,600 (0.1 )% 8.0 % Total U.S. 2,374,098 2,220,501 2,187,775 6.9 % 1.5 % International Sales to Third Parties 464,984 397,677 374,560 16.9 % 6.2 % Sales to Abbott Laboratories 60,597 70,327 64,361 (13.8 )% 9.3 % Mayne Pharma 536,559 nm nm Total International 1,062,140 468,004 438,921 127.0 % 6.6 % Total Net Sales $ 3,436,238 $ 2,688,505 $ 2,626,696 27.8 % 2.4 % nm percent change not meaningful 2007 compared to 2006: Net sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals increased, driven by higher sales in the base product portfolio, including increased sales of certain anti infective products, drugs sold in differentiated delivery systems, Hospiras proprietary drug Precedex&reg; and favorable pricing. The increase was also driven by contributions from new product launches in 2007 and 2006, including ampicillin sulbactam, ondansetron and propofol. Net sales in Medication Delivery Systems increased, driven by growth in both infusion therapy and medication management systems sales. Growth in infusion therapy products sales was largely due to increased volume from new and existing customer contracts. Medication management systems sales increased due to higher placements of devices and increased revenue from related services. 40 Net sales in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing decreased due to expected lower demand from existing customers for certain products, including several products that now have generic competition. The decrease in U.S. net sales to Abbott was primarily due to expected decreased volume to Abbott for several of its products, partially offset by increased price. The Other product line includes sales of Hospiras products to alternate site providers such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, as well as sales of critical care devices and brain function monitoring systems. The growth in sales to alternate site healthcare customers was more than offset by a decline in sales of critical care devices, the planned exit of certain products manufactured in Ashland, Ohio, and other adjustments. Sales to alternate site healthcare customers increased due to higher overall sales of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication delivery systems, partially offset by decreased sales of deferoxamine. International net sales to Third Parties were higher in all regions primarily related to increased sales of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management systems, favorable exchange, and increased contract manufacturing sales. International net sales to Abbott decreased primarily due to expected decreased volume to Abbott for several of its products, partially offset by increased price. 2006 compared to 2005: Net sales in Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals declined, reflecting the 2005 termination of the Berlex imaging agents distribution agreement. Excluding Berlex, sales within this product line increased, driven by the impact of sales of ceftriaxone, launched in the third quarter of 2005; increased sales of certain anti infective products (which Hospira believes was partially driven by a competitors inability to supply product earlier in the year coupled with government orders); increased sales of syringe products; and favorable price. These factors were partially offset by lower sales of ADD Vantage&reg; diluents due to competitive drug supply issues. The net sales increase in Medication Delivery Systems was driven primarily by growth in medication management systems. The growth in medication management systems was due primarily to increased placements of Hospiras newer technology Plum A+&reg; pumps with Hospira MedNet&reg; coupled with the impact of placements of Hospiras LifeCare PCA&reg; infusion system, which was launched in the first quarter of 2006. Net sales in Injectable Pharmaceutical Contract Manufacturing were up slightly, driven by growth in demand for several existing and new products, partially offset by the impact of the termination of certain lower margin contracts. The decrease in U.S. net sales to Abbott was primarily due to decreased demand by Abbott for several of its products, partially offset by increased price. The Other product line includes sales of Hospiras products to alternate site providers such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities, as well as sales of critical care devices and brain function monitoring systems. The increase in Other U.S. sales was primarily due to increased sales to alternate site healthcare customers including higher sales of anesthesia products, including recently introduced propofol; increased sales of pumps and sets; and other adjustments, partially offset by decreased sales of deferoxamine due to a competitive product launch and lower critical care sales. International net sales to Third Parties were up, primarily reflecting increased sales on a third party manufacturing contract, growth in Canada, and favorable exchange, partially offset by reduced volumes due to transition related supply chain disruptions and lower pricing to distributors compared to the prior Abbott direct sales model. International net sales to Abbott increased primarily due to increased price and increased demand by Abbott for several of its products. 41 Gross Profit Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 Gross profit $ 1,173,923 $ 939,243 $ 849,056 25.0 % 10.6 % As a percent of sales 34.2 % 34.9 % 32.3 % 2007 compared to 2006: Gross profit increased $234.7 million, or 25.0%, in 2007 compared to 2006. Of this increase, $200.3 million, or 21.3%, is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. Gross profit margin decreased by (0.7)% to 34.2% for 2007 from 34.9% in 2006. Of this decrease, (1.0)% is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma, which includes the inventory step up charge resulting from purchase accounting of (1.2)% and amortization of the acquired intangible assets of (1.0)%. The remaining change of 0.3% not related to the addition of Mayne Pharma is primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 0.3%, lower costs associated with the planned manufacturing plant closures of 0.3%, favorable price in the U.S. of 0.1%, and other net changes of 0.1%. These increases were partially offset by inflation and other manufacturing costs of (0.3)%, the impairment of the intangible asset related to the brain function monitoring devices of (0.1)%, and incremental freight and distribution costs of (0.1)%. 2006 compared to 2005: The increase in gross profit margin in 2006 was primarily the result of volume/product mix improvement of 2.0%, which includes the impact of the termination of the lower margin Berlex agreement of 0.7%; price in the U.S. of 0.7%; an asset impairment and obligations assumed in 2005 and reduction of the obligations in 2006 relating to the sale of the Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility of 0.9%; higher manufacturing performance of 0.5%; lower project expense of 0.4% and lower non recurring transition related costs of 0.3%. These improvements were partially offset by costs associated with the planned manufacturing plant closures of (1.4)% and incremental freight and distribution costs in the International segment of (0.8)%. Research and Development Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 Research and development expense $ 201,232 $ 161,621 $ 138,834 24.5 % 16.4 % As a percent of sales 5.9 % 6.0 % 5.3 % 2007 compared to 2006: Research and development ("R&D") expenses increased $39.6 million in 2007, compared to 2006. Of this increase, $47.2 million is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. Not including the addition of Mayne Pharma, R&D expenses decreased year over year due to the combination of upfront payments made in 2006 related to collaboration agreements for the development, manufacturing and distribution of biosimilar products, as well as lower spending in 2007 on medication delivery infusion systems projects as a result of new product launches. This was partially offset by higher spending on new product development related to new compounds in Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline and clinical trials on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;. 42 2006 compared to 2005: The increase in R&D expenses in 2006 was primarily due to upfront payments relating to collaboration agreements, spending on new product development and stock option expense as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Hospiras upfront payments relate to collaboration agreements for the development, manufacturing and distribution of biosimilar products. R&D spending on new product development related to new compounds in Hospiras generic injectable drug pipeline and clinical studies on Hospiras branded sedative, Precedex&reg;. These increases were partially offset by lower spending in 2006 on medication delivery infusion systems as a result of new product launches. Acquired In Process Research and Development On February 2, 2007, Hospira completed its acquisition of Mayne Pharma. As part of the purchase price allocation, Hospira allocated and expensed $84.8 million to acquired in process research and development related to Mayne Pharmas pipeline products. Additionally in late 2007, Hospira purchased certain clinical studies related to a compound that will be used to file for expanded medical indications. The cost for these clinical studies was $3.2 million and was recorded as acquired in process research and development expense in 2007 as the studies have no alternative future uses. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Hospira acquired BresaGen Limited, formerly an Australian public company. As part of the purchase price allocation, Hospira allocated and expensed $10.0 million to acquired in process research and development related to BresaGens pipeline products. Selling, General and Administrative Percent change Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 Selling, general and administrative expense $ 582,078 $ 428,038 $ 373,607 36.0 % 14.6 % As a percent of sales 16.9 % 15.9 % 14.2 % 2007 compared to 2006: Selling, general and administrative ("S,G&A") expenses increased $154.0 million in 2007, compared to 2006. Of this increase, $102.9 million is related to the addition of Mayne Pharma. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to additional costs related to the integration of Mayne Pharma, partially offset by reduced costs due to the completion in 2006 of the implementation of Hospiras new independent infrastructure as a result of the spin off. 2006 compared to 2005: S,G&A expenses increased in 2006 partially related to stock option expense as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to additional costs related to establishment of Hospiras business infrastructure outside the U.S. and costs associated with the implementation of Hospiras new information technology system and related depreciation. Interest Expense Hospira incurred interest expense of $134.5 million in 2007, $31.0 million in 2006 and $28.3 million in 2005. The increase in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the issuance of additional debt and related costs due to the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The increase in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to higher interest rates on Hospiras floating rate debt (as a result of converting some of Hospiras debt from fixed to floating under the interest rate swap entered into in 2005), partially offset by higher capitalized interest in 2006. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, as 43 well as Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, for further information regarding Hospiras debt and credit facilities. Other Income, Net Other (income) and expense for 2007, 2006 and 2005 primarily includes amounts relating to foreign currency transaction gains and losses, interest income, and other items. Foreign exchange (gains) for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $(1.6) million, $(1.1) million and $(0.1) million, respectively. Included in 2007 is $5.7 million of foreign exchange losses realized due to the Mayne Pharma acquisition. Interest (income) for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $(15.1) million, $(17.1) million and $(15.1) million, respectively. In 2007, Hospira also had net gains on investments of $5.0 million. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate was 27.2% in 2007 and 26.8% in both 2006 and 2005. The effective tax rate for 2007 included the impact of a significant unusual item, the expensing of non deductible acquired in process research and development related to the Mayne Pharma acquisition of $84.8 million. Excluding the effect of this item, the 2007 effective tax rate was 18.7%, which includes certain non recurring items such as purchase accounting, integration and restructuring charges generating benefits in higher tax rate jurisdictions. The effective tax rate for 2006 also included the impact of a significant unusual item, the expensing of acquired in process research and development. Excluding the effect of this item, the 2006 effective tax rate was 26.0%. Included in 2005 is tax of $9.1 million related to the repatriation of $175.0 million of foreign earnings under the Jobs Act. Excluding the effect of the repatriation, the 2005 effective tax rate was 24.0%. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2007 compared to 2006, excluding both years significant unusual items, was due primarily to increased expenses in higher tax rate jurisdictions in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition, including intangible amortization expense, purchase accounting charges, and interest expense. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2006 compared to 2005, excluding the impact of expensing of acquired in process research and development in 2006, was due primarily to increased income generated in the U.S, which has a higher tax rate than foreign jurisdictions. The effective tax rates are less than the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate principally due to the benefit of tax exemptions, of varying durations, in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. Liquidity and Capital Resources Summary of Sources and (Uses) of Cash Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Operating activities $ 551,051 $ 424,190 $ 571,087 Investing activities (2,228,039 ) (251,236 ) (184,432 ) Financing activities 1,580,219 (377,728 ) 8,605 Operating Activities Net Cash from Operating Activities continues to be Hospiras primary source of funds to finance operating needs, capital expenditures and repayment of debt. Other capital resources include cash on hand, borrowing availability under Hospiras $375.0 million revolving credit facility and access to the capital markets. Beginning on February 2, 2007, Hospiras operating cash flows include operating cash flows generated by Mayne Pharma. During the two year period after the closing, Hospira expects to incur approximately $95 million to $110 million of cash expenditures relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma, which will reduce operating and investing cash flows. In addition, as a result of the debt incurred during the first quarter of 2007 to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition, Hospira must dedicate substantially greater cash to service debt obligations (including interest expense and mandatory 44 principal payments on the term loan described below) on an ongoing basis compared to past periods. Hospira believes that its current capital resources, including cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, funds available from its revolving credit facility and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to finance its operations, including debt service obligations, capital expenditures, product development and Mayne Pharma integration expenditures for the foreseeable future. In 2007, operating activities provided net cash of $551.1 million driven by net income of $136.8 million. Non cash depreciation, non cash amortization and impairment of intangible charges, the write off of acquired in process research and development, the step up value of acquired inventories sold, non cash stock based compensation expense and the net gains on sales of assets totaled $418.2 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities and Other, net of $(3.9) million consist primarily of payments made on acquired Mayne Pharma current liabilities, including merger advisory fees, and higher trade receivables due to increased sales, partially offset by lower inventory and higher trade payables. In 2006, operating activities provided net cash of $424.2 million, primarily driven by net income of $237.7 million, non cash depreciation and amortization charges of $156.7 million, non cash stock based compensation expense of $35.9 million, and the write off of acquired in process research and development of $10.0 million, offset by a pre tax gain on the sale of the Donegal, Ireland facility of $7.9 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $8.2 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of an increase in inventories, offset by an increase in trade accounts payable and other liabilities and changes in Other, net. The increase in inventory reflected planned normal inventory builds and additional safety stocks to support the business as manufacturing production transfers occur in connection with planned plant closings. Investing Activities In 2007, Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $2,228.0 million includes the acquisition of Mayne Pharma for $1,961.3 million, net of cash acquired and capital expenditures of $210.5 million. Also in connection with the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, Hospira entered into certain foreign currency forward exchange contracts to limit its exposure from currency movements of the Australian dollar. During 2007, Hospira paid $55.7 million for the settlements relating to these contracts. During 2007, Hospira paid $19.2 million for obligations related to acquisitions made by Mayne Pharma in prior years and $5.5 million for the purchase of certain intangible assets and other investments. These decreases were partially offset by proceeds from dispositions of certain product rights for $13.8 million and proceeds from the sales of marketable securities of $10.4 million. In 2006, Net Cash Used in Investing Activities of $251.2 million includes capital expenditures of $235.0 million for upgrading and expanding manufacturing and administrative support facilities, and information technology systems. In addition, investing activities includes proceeds from the sale of the Donegal, Ireland and Montreal, Canada facilities of $19.3 million, the use of cash of $17.1 million for the acquisition of BresaGen and $18.4 million for the purchase of certain intangible assets and other investments. Financing Activities Net Cash From Financing Activities totaled $1,580.2 million in 2007. Hospira incurred $1,925.0 million of bank debt to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The bank facilities included a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility and a $1,425.0 million one year bridge loan facility. The bridge loan facility was completely refinanced on March 23, 2007 through the issuance of long term debt securities. During 2007, Hospira prepaid $359.7 million in principal amount of the term loan, in addition to the rescheduled $40.3 million in principal, for a total of $400.0 million. In addition, financing activities include proceeds from employee stock option exercises and related tax benefits of $75.4 million. 45  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities of $377.7 million in 2006 consists primarily of common stock repurchases of $299.8 million and payments to Abbott for international net assets of $126.2 million, offset by proceeds from employee stock option exercises and related tax benefits of $45.8 million, and an increase in other borrowing, net of $2.5 million. Summary of Financial Position Years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Cash and cash equivalents $ 241,068 $ 322,045 $ 520,610 Working capital 1,046,731 916,664 964,929 Short term borrowings and long term debt 2,242,879 706,576 697,864 Working Capital The increase in working capital in 2007 was primarily due to an increase in trade receivables and inventory. These increases were partially offset by decreases in cash and increases in short term borrowings, trade payables, and liabilities related to accruals for employee incentive programs. The acquisition of Mayne Pharma increased overall working capital levels in 2007. The decrease in working capital in 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and an increase in income taxes payable. This is offset by an increase in inventory and prepaid expenses and other receivables, and a decrease in current portion of Due to Abbott, Net, which is principally related to the liability for the international net assets transferred from Abbott, and decreases in liabilities related to accruals for employee incentive programs. Debt and Capital Mayne Pharma Acquisition. On February 1, 2007, Hospira incurred $1,925.0 million of bank debt to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The remainder of the purchase price was funded with cash on hand. The bank facilities included a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility and a $1,425.0 million one year bridge loan facility. The bridge loan facility was completely refinanced on March 23, 2007 through the issuance of long term debt securities described below. Under the three year term loan facility, before giving effect to any prepayments (which reduce the repayment amounts on a pro rata basis), Hospira was required to repay $12.5 million in principal at the end of each quarter in 2007. Hospira must repay $50.0 million at the end of each quarter in 2008 and $62.5 million at the end of each quarter in 2009 (with the final payment to be made on the maturity date of January 15, 2010). Hospira is permitted to prepay amounts borrowed under the term loan from time to time without penalty. During 2007, Hospira prepaid $359.7 million in principal amount of the term loan, in addition to the rescheduled $40.3 million in principal, for a total of $400.0 million. The $40.3 million of payments in principal reflect a reduction in original mandatory payments due to prepayments made in 2007. As a result of the prepayments made in 2007, the amount due within one year is $44.4 million, and is recorded as short term borrowings. Borrowings under the term loan facility and bridge loan facility bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin that is determined based on Hospiras senior unsecured debt ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys. Based on Hospiras ratings of BBB (stable outlook) from Standard & Poors and Baa3 (negative outlook) from Moodys, the margin is currently 0.60%. Ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 46 On March 23, 2007, Hospira issued $375.0 million principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due in 2010, $500.0 million principal amount of 5.55% Notes due in 2012 and $550.0 million principal amount of 6.05% Notes due in 2017 in a registered public offering. The Floating Rate Notes due 2010 bear interest at three month LIBOR plus 48 basis points. All series of notes are due on March 30 of the year of maturity. The net proceeds of the notes (after deducting approximately $10.0 million of underwriters discounts and offering expenses of $4.2 million), together with approximately $21.5 million of cash on hand, were used to repay the bridge loan facility and related interest in full. Revolving Credit Facility. Hospira has a five year $375.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), which it entered into on December 16, 2005, and amended on January 15, 2007. The Revolver was amended to permit the Mayne Pharma acquisition and to temporarily increase the maximum leverage ratio and lower the minimum interest coverage ratio. The Revolver is available for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. Borrowings under the Revolver bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin, plus a utilization fee if borrowings under the Revolver exceed 50% of the aggregate amount of committed loans. Hospira is also required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate amount of committed loans. The annual rates for the LIBOR margin, the utilization fee and the facility fee are 0.60%, 0.075% and 0.10%, respectively, as of December 31, 2007, and are subject to increase or decrease if there is a change in Hospiras current credit ratings. The amount of available borrowings may be increased to a maximum of $500.0 million, and the term may be increased for up to two additional years, under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had no amounts borrowed or otherwise outstanding under the Revolver. The Revolver and the indenture governing Hospiras senior unsecured notes (which includes the Mayne Pharma Debt and the $700 million senior unsecured notes) contain, among other provisions, covenants with which Hospira must comply while they are in force. The covenants in the Revolver limit Hospiras ability to, among other things, sell assets, incur indebtedness and liens, incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level and merge or consolidate with other companies. The covenants in the indenture governing Hospiras senior unsecured notes limit Hospiras ability, among other things, to incur unsecured indebtedness, enter into certain sales and lease transactions and merge or consolidate with other companies. Hospiras debt instruments also include customary events of default, which would permit amounts borrowed to be accelerated and would permit the lenders under the revolving credit agreement to terminate their lending commitments. A description of certain covenants is set forth below. Change of Control. The notes issued on March 23, 2007 include covenants that require Hospira to offer to repurchase those notes at 101% of their principal amount if: (1) there is a change of control of Hospira and (2) Hospira is rated below investment grade by both Moodys and Standard & Poors at or within a specified time after the time of announcement of the change of control transaction. A change of control, as described above, would constitute an event of cross default under the term loan agreement and Hospiras revolving credit agreement. Financial Covenants. Hospiras term loan facility and revolving credit facility include requirements to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. The leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Hospiras debt by its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (excluding certain purchase accounting charges relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition, expenses relating to the integration of Mayne Pharma into Hospira, expenses relating to Hospiras transition from Abbott, expenses relating to Hospiras manufacturing optimization activities and certain non cash gains, expenses and losses, subject in certain cases to agreed upon maximums) for the twelve months ending on the last day of each quarter. The coverage ratio is calculated by dividing Hospiras earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (excluding the items described above) by 47 its consolidated financing expense (interest expense and net capitalized interest), in each case for the twelve months ended on the last day of each quarter. The maximum leverage ratio is 3.25 as of December 31, 2007, and for all periods thereafter. The minimum coverage ratio is 5.00 as of December 31, 2007, and for all periods thereafter. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira was in compliance with all applicable covenants. Senior Notes. Hospira has approximately $700.0 million of senior unsecured notes outstanding, including $300.0 million of 4.95% notes due in 2009 and $400.0 million of 5.90% notes due in 2014. The 4.95% notes were effectively converted to floating rate notes through interest rate swaps with various counterparties. The senior notes contain customary covenants that limit Hospiras ability to incur secured indebtedness and liens and merge or consolidate with other companies. Other Borrowings. In connection with the acquisition of Mayne Phama in the first quarter of 2007, Hospira assumed a $1.4 million bank term loan which bears a fixed rate of interest of 3.75%, with principal and interest due semi annually, ending in June 2009, of which $1.1 million is classified as short term. Additionally, Hospira assumed a $4.6 million unsecured loan, of which $4.5 million is classified as short term. This loan bears a fixed rate of 1.0% with payments due annually, ending in September 2009. In connection with the acquisition of BresaGen in the fourth quarter of 2006, Hospira assumed a $5.4 million mortgage note that is secured by land and building, of which $0.6 million is classified as short term. The agreement bears a fixed rate of interest of 7.47%, with payments of principal and interest due quarterly, ending in March 2015. In March 2005, Hospira issued economic development promissory notes, the proceeds of which were used for a distribution facility expansion. The $1.75 million ten year notes bear a fixed rate of interest of 2.0%, with principal and interest due monthly. Hospiras foreign affiliates have entered into various loan agreements in their local currency, which are used to optimize the capital structure. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, Hospira had $7.7 million and $8.8 million of such loans outstanding, respectively, of which $7.7 million and $3.9 million were classified as short term, respectively. Transfer of International Net Assets from Abbott. In connection with the spin off, Hospira and Abbott agreed that the legal transfer of certain operations and assets (net of liabilities) outside the U.S. would occur, and be completed, within two years after the spin off. During the transition period, these operations and assets were used in the conduct of Hospiras international business and Hospira was subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by such operations and assets. Hospira was obligated to pay Abbott for these operations and assets, and assume the corresponding liabilities, over a two year period after the spin off date as Hospira established its business infrastructure outside the U.S. and obtained regulatory approval for the transfer of the marketing authorizations for Hospira products to local Hospira affiliates or third party distributors. The transfers were completed in the second quarter of 2006. The total amounts paid in 2006 and 2005 were $126.2 million and $116.7 million, respectively. Share Repurchase. In February 2006, Hospiras board of directors authorized the repurchase of $400.0 million of Hospiras common stock. The program authorizes Hospira to repurchase common shares from time to time through the open market in compliance with securities regulations and other legal requirements. The size and timing of any purchases are at the discretion of company management, based on factors such as alternative uses of cash, and business and market conditions. The repurchase of shares commenced in early March 2006. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira 48 repurchased 7,584,400 shares for $299.8 million in the aggregate under the 2006 board authorization, all of which were purchased during 2006. Since Hospira intends to dedicate a substantial portion of its future cash to servicing its debt and integrating Mayne Pharma into its operations, Hospira does not expect to repurchase any shares in 2008. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes Hospiras estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payment Due by Period (dollars in millions) Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and Thereafter Long term debt and interest payments $ 2,932.5 $ 187.5 $ 949.5 $ 657.7 $ 1,137.8 Lease obligations 168.1 32.4 53.4 42.7 39.6 Purchase commitments(1) 423.1 410.4 11.8 0.9 Other long term liabilities reflected on the consolidated balance sheet(2) 174.6 141.3 33.3 Funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006(3) 52.6 17.8 22.4 12.4 Total $ 3,750.9 $ 630.3 $ 1,173.8 $ 757.0 $ 1,189.8 (1)Purchase obligations for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital requirements. Hospira has committed to make potential future "milestone" payments to third parties as part of in licensing and development agreements. Payments under these agreements are contingent upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and or commercial milestones and are not included in the table above. (2)Includes liability of $144.5 million relating to unrecognized tax benefits, penalties and interest: excludes approximately $135.5 million of other long term liabilities related primarily to post retirement benefit obligations. (3)To meet the funding rules of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the estimated minimum required contribution amounts are set forth in the table above. While Hospiras funding policy requires contributions to our defined benefit plans equal to the amounts necessary to, at a minimum, satisfy the funding requirements as prescribed by the laws and regulations of each country, Hospira does make discretionary contributions when management determines it is prudent to do so. Hospira does not currently expect to contribute to its main U.S. pension plan in 2008. Hospiras commercial commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, primarily consist of non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had $21.1 million of outstanding letters of credit, with a majority expiring in 2008. No amounts have been drawn on these letters of credit. Hospira has no material exposures to off balance sheet arrangements, no special purpose entities, and no activities that include non exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair value. 49 Recently Issued Accounting Standards In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51" ("SFAS No. 160"). SFAS No. 160 states that accounting and reporting for minority interests will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. SFAS No. 160 also establishes reporting requirements that provide sufficient disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. SFAS No. 160 applies to all entities that prepare consolidated financial statements, except not for profit organizations, but will affect only those entities that have an outstanding noncontrolling interest in one or more subsidiaries or that deconsolidate a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of SFAS No. 160 on its financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), "Business Combinations" ("SFAS No. 141R"). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for the reporting entity in a business combination, including recognition and measurement in the financial statements of the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. This statement also establishes disclosure requirements to enable financial statement users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of SFAS No. 141R on its financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 07 1, "Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements" ("EITF 07 1"). EITF 07 1 provides guidance on how to determine whether an arrangement constitutes a collaborative arrangement, how costs incurred and revenue generated on sales to third parties should be reported by the participants in a collaborative arrangement, how payments made between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be characterized, and what participants should disclose in the notes to the financial statements about a collaborative arrangement. EITF 07 1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of EITF 07 1 on its financial statements. In June 2007, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07 3, "Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development Activities" ("EITF 07 3"). EITF 07 03 states that nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities should be deferred and capitalized. Such amounts should be recognized as an expense as the related goods are delivered or the related services performed. If it is not expected that the goods will be delivered or services will be rendered, the capitalized advance payment should be charged to expense in the period in which such determination is made. EITF 07 3 is effective for new contracts entered into in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of EITF 07 3 on its financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" ("SFAS No. 159"). SFAS No. 159 provides a company with the option to measure selected financial instruments and certain other items at fair value at specified election dates. The election may be applied on an item by item basis, with disclosure regarding reasons for partial election and additional information about items selected for fair value option. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Hospira is currently evaluating the potential impact of SFAS No. 159 on its financial statements. 50 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing an asset or liability and establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop those assumptions. Under the standard, fair value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Hospira does not anticipate that the impact of SFAS No. 157 will be significant on its financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). One provision of SFAS No. 158 requires the measurement of Hospiras defined benefit plans assets and its obligations to determine the funded status be made as of the end of the fiscal year. This provision of SFAS No. 158 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. Hospira does not anticipate that the impact from the adoption of this provision of SFAS No. 158 will be significant to its financial statements.  Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instrument and Risk Management Hospira operates globally, and earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Upon consideration of management objectives, costs and opportunities, Hospira uses derivative instruments, including foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to manage these risks. Hospira enters into derivative instrument contracts with a diversified group of major financial institutions to limit the amount of credit exposure to nonperformance by any one institution. Hospira does not utilize derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Currency Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras operations are exposed to currency exchange rate risk, which is mitigated by Hospiras use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts ("forward contracts"). The objective in managing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Currency exposures include third party trade payables and receivables, and intercompany loans where the asset or liability is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. Forward contract gains and losses on these exposures substantially offset the remeasurement of the related asset or liability, and both are included in other income, net. In addition, currency exposures exist for certain subsidiaries for anticipated intercompany purchases, firm commitments, and third party forecasted transactions expected to be denominated in a foreign currency due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Forward contract gains and losses related to such exposures are also included in other income, net during the term of the forward contract, as they are not formally designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Net forward contract (income) expense for the year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $3.4 million, $(2.0) million and $(0.5) million, respectively, and are included in other income, net in the consolidated statements of income. The carrying value and fair value of forward contracts was a net payable of $10.6 million and $5.3 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 51 Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments Hospiras primary interest rate exposures relate to cash and cash equivalents, and fixed and variable rate debt. The objective in managing exposure to changes in interest rates is to reduce volatility on earnings and cash flows associated with these changes. Hospiras investment portfolio of $264.8 million at December 31, 2007 consists of cash and cash equivalents, equity investments in affiliated companies, and cost investments, primarily consisting of marketable securities which are classified as "available for sale." For marketable securities, any gains or losses will not be recognized in Hospiras statements of income until the investment is sold or if there is a reduction in fair value that is determined to be an other than temporary impairment. The carrying value of the investment portfolio approximates fair market value at December 31, 2007 and the value at maturity, as the majority of investments consist of securities with maturities of less than three months. Because Hospiras investments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates, based on average cash and cash equivalents during the year, would increase/(decrease) interest income by approximately $2.8 million. Hospira has a Revolver that allows borrowings up to $375.0 million for working capital and other requirements. The Revolver allows Hospira to borrow funds at variable interest rates as short term cash needs dictate. The amount of available borrowings under the Revolver may be increased to a maximum of $500.0 million, and the term may be increased for up to two additional years, under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2007, Hospira had no amounts outstanding under the Revolver. In conjunction with the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, on March 23, 2007, Hospira issued $375.0 million principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due in 2010 that bear interest at a three month LIBOR plus 48 basis points. A hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $3.8 million. Also, on February 1, 2007, Hospira incurred a $500.0 million, three year term loan facility bearing interest at LIBOR plus a margin that is determined based on Hospiras senior unsecured debt ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys. As of December 31, 2007 the outstanding balance on the term loan was $100.0 million. A hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $1.0 million. In conjunction with the spin off from Abbott, on June 15, 2004, Hospira completed an underwritten offering of a consolidated $700.0 million aggregate principal amount consisting of $300.0 million five year senior unsecured notes and $400.0 million 10 year senior unsecured notes, both of which bear a fixed rate of interest. In January 2005, Hospira entered into interest rate swap transactions whereby the $300.0 million five year senior unsecured notes due in June 2009 were effectively converted from fixed to floating rate debt. Hospira records the interest rate swap contracts at fair value and offsets the carrying amount of the fixed rate debt by the same amount. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(0.2) million and $(8.2) million, respectively. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2007 and 2006, this estimated fair value represents the amount that Hospira would have to pay to counterparties. As a result of converting from fixed to floating rate debt, a hypothetical one percentage point increase/(decrease) in interest rates would increase/(decrease) interest expense by $3.0 million. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above, as well as Notes 5 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K, for further information. 52   
 
