Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained in this annual report. These forward looking statements speak only as of the date on which the statements were made. Hospira undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. If Hospira does update or correct one or more of these statements, investors and others should not conclude that Hospira will make additional updates or corrections.  PART I  Item 1. Business General Overview of Business Hospira is a global provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies. Through a broad, integrated product portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance WellnessTM by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. Hospiras portfolio includes generic acute care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management products. Hospiras broad portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities. Hospira was incorporated in Delaware on September 16, 2003, as a wholly owned subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories ("Abbott"). Hospiras business first began operation as part of Abbott in the 1 Table of Contents 1930s. As part of a plan to spin off its core hospital products business ("spin off"), Abbott transferred the assets and liabilities relating to Hospiras business to Hospira and, on April 30, 2004, distributed Hospiras common stock to Abbotts shareholders. On that date, Hospira began operating as an independent company, and on May 3, 2004, Hospiras common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "HSP." Operating Segments Hospira conducts operations worldwide and is managed in three reportable segments: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia Pacific ("APAC"). The Americas segment includes the United States ("U.S."), Canada and Latin America; the EMEA segment includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and the APAC segment includes Asia, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. In all segments, Hospira sells a broad line of products, including specialty injectable and other pharmaceuticals and medication management products. For financial information relating to Hospiras segments and principal product lines and other geographic information, see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this document. Unless the context requires otherwise, the disclosures in "Item 1. Business" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" relate to all three reportable segments. Products Hospira offers the following types of products and services: Product Line Description Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals Approximately 200 injectable generic drugs in multiple dosages and formulations Proprietary specialty injectables, including PrecedexTM (dexmedetomidine HCl), a proprietary drug for sedation Biosimilars, including RetacritTM (erythropoietin zeta), a biosimilar erythropoietin, used primarily in the treatment of anemia in dialysis and in certain oncology applications, and NivestimTM, a biosimilar filgrastim used for the treatment of low white blood cells in patients who have received a chemotherapeutic agent Other Pharmaceuticals Large volume intravenous ("I.V.") solutions and nutritional products Contract manufacturing services Medication Management Infusion pumps and dedicated administration sets Hospira MedNetTM safety software system and related services Software applications and devices that support point of care medication administration Gravity administration sets Other device products Specialty Injectable Pharmaceuticals Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceutical products represented approximately 63% of Hospiras net sales (gross sales less reductions for wholesaler chargebacks, rebates, returns and other allowances) in 2011. This product category primarily consists of generic injectable pharmaceuticals. These products provide customers with a lower cost alternative to branded products, when the patent protection has expired, when patents have been declared invalid, or when the products do not infringe the patents of 2 Table of Contents others. These drugs therapeutic areas include analgesia, anesthesia, anti infectives, cardiovascular, oncology, and other areas. All of Hospiras generic injectable pharmaceuticals in the U.S. include unit of use bar code labels that can be used to support safer medication delivery. Hospira primarily procures the active pharmaceutical ingredients in these products from third party suppliers. During 2011, Hospira continued to broaden its global portfolio with 87 new to country injectable drug launches consisting of 13 compounds. Among these launches included, in the U.S., docetaxel (an oncolytic drug used to treat a variety of cancers), topotecan (an oncolytic drug used for the treatment of small cell lung cancer) and imipenem cilastatin (a beta lactam antibiotic). Hospira also launched a novel solution formulation of gemcitabine (an oncolytic drug used to treat a variety of cancers), which augmented Hospiras portfolio of gemcitabine products. New to country launches in EMEA in 2011 included topotecan, meropenem, gemcitabine, imipenem cilastatin, remifentanil, docetaxel and levofloxacin. New to country launches in APAC in 2011 included docetaxel, piperacillin tazobactam, oxaliplatin, meropenem and gemcitabine. Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceutical products also include PrecedexTM (dexmedetomidine HCl), a proprietary sedative. PrecedexTM is licensed to Hospira by Orion Corporation in the Americas and APAC segments, and in the Middle East and Africa. Hospira sells and markets PrecedexTM for use in non intubated patients requiring sedation, as well as intubated and mechanically ventilated patients. Hospiras specialty injectable pharmaceuticals also include biologic products, which are large complex molecules derived from cells that are demonstrated to be similar to an approved originator product. Hospiras first biosimilar, RetacritTM, was originally launched in 2008 and is currently available in 20 EMEA countries. Its second biosimilar, NivestimTM, was launched in 2010 and is currently available in 21 countries, including Australia, where the biosimilar filgrastim product was launched in 2011. Hospira believes that novel drug delivery formats are key points of product differentiation for generic injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira offers a wide variety of drug delivery options, and believes that its products assist its customers efforts to enhance safety, increase productivity and reduce waste. Hospiras drug delivery formats include standard offerings in ampules and flip top vials, which clinicians can use with standard syringes. Hospiras proprietary drug delivery options include CarpujectTM and iSecureTM prefilled syringes, AnsyrTM prefilled needleless emergency syringe systems, First ChoiceTM ready to use premix and the ADD VantageTM system for preparing drug solutions from prepackaged drug powders or concentrates. Other Pharmaceuticals Hospiras other pharmaceuticals represented approximately 13% of Hospiras net sales in 2011, and primarily consist of large volume I.V. solutions, nutritionals and contract manufacturing services. Hospira offers infusion therapy solutions and related supplies that include I.V. solutions for general use, I.V. nutrition products, and solutions for the washing and cleansing of wounds or surgical sites. All of Hospiras injectable I.V. solutions in the U.S. include unit of use bar code labels that can be used to support medication management efforts. Hospira also offers infusion therapy solutions in its VisIVTM next generation non PVC, non DEHP I.V. container, an I.V. bag with advanced safety and environmentally friendly features. Hospiras contract manufacturing services are offered through its One2OneSM services group, which provides formulation development, filling and finishing of injectable and oral drugs worldwide. Hospira works with its proprietary pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers to develop stable injectable forms of their drugs, and Hospira fills and finishes those and other drugs into containers and packaging selected by the customer. The customer then sells the finished products under its own label. Hospiras One2OneSM manufacturing services group generally does not manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients, but offers a wide range of filling and finishing services in a variety of delivery systems. 3 Table of Contents Medication Management Medication management products represented approximately 24% of Hospiras net sales in 2011 and includes electronic drug delivery pumps, safety software and disposable administration sets dedicated to Hospira pumps. These sets are used to deliver I.V. fluids and medications. Hospira also offers software maintenance agreements and other service offerings. Hospira estimates that over 575,000 of its electronic drug delivery pumps were in use on a global basis as of December 31, 2011. Hospiras electronic drug delivery pumps include Hospiras general infusion system, SymbiqTM; the Plum A+TM line of infusion pumps; Hospiras patient controlled analgesia device, LifeCare PCATM; the GemStarTM ambulatory infusion pump; and the PlumTM XLD infusion pump. In 2010, due to certain product issues, Hospira placed a voluntary hold on all shipments of SymbiqTM infusion pumps to new customers. New customer pump placements for SymbiqTM remained on voluntary hold throughout 2011 for the majority of the regions, and will remain on hold in the U.S. until Hospira receives clearance for modifications to the pump that were submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") in 2011. For further information related to product issues with SymbiqTM and Hospiras other medication management products, see the sections captioned "Quality Assurance" in "Item 1. Business" and "Certain Quality and Product Related Matters" in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Hospira believes that electronic drug delivery pumps with enhanced systems capabilities have become a key contributor in efforts to improve medication management programs and reduce the incidence of medication errors. Some of Hospiras pumps use bar coding to read drug labels that are compatible with other Hospira products, reducing the opportunity for drug infusion errors. Hospira offers the Hospira MedNetTM safety software system, which has been designed to enable hospitals to customize intravenous drug dosage limits and track drug delivery to prevent medication errors. Through its drug library and programmable drug dosage limits, the system can help ensure that medication is infused within hospital defined dose guidelines and best practices. The wireless network version of the Hospira MedNetTM system establishes real time send and receive capability and can interface with select hospital and pharmacy information systems. Hospira continues to work with hospital information technology companies to integrate the Hospira MedNetTM system with other systems. The Hospira MedNetTM system is standard in the SymbiqTM infusion system, and is also available as an additional feature for the Plum A+TM line, and LifeCare PCATM devices, which, when aggregated represent the majority of Hospiras line of electronic drug delivery pumps. Hospira also offers safety software with its GemStarTM pump. Medication management includes TheraDoc, Inc. products, which are module based clinical surveillance systems that provide patient safety surveillance and clinical decision support. Medication management also includes gravity administration sets and other device products, including needlestick safety products and programs to support Hospiras customers needlestick prevention initiatives. LifeShieldTM CLAVETM and LifeShieldTM MicroCLAVETM connectors are one piece valves that directly connect syringes filled with medications to a patients I.V. line without the use of needles. ICU Medicals CLAVETM connectors are a component of administration sets sold by Hospira to its customers in the U.S. and select markets outside the U.S. Sales, Customers and Distribution Sales. Net sales in the Americas segment accounted for approximately 79% of Hospiras 2011 net sales. Net sales in the EMEA and APAC segments comprised approximately 13% and 8%, respectively, of 2011 net sales. Hospiras sales organizations include sales professionals who sell across its major product lines, as well as product specialists who promote its medication management products, or who market and sell PrecedexTM and select other products. Hospira also has extensive experience contracting with, marketing to and servicing members of the major group purchasing organizations ("GPOs") in the U.S. 4 Table of Contents Customers. Hospiras primary customers in the Americas segment include hospitals, wholesalers, integrated delivery networks ("IDN") and alternate site facilities. In the U.S., a substantial portion of Hospiras product is sold to GPO member hospitals and through wholesalers and distributors. Net sales through the largest four wholesalers that supply products to many end users accounted for approximately 41% of global net sales during 2011. As end users have multiple ways to access Hospiras products, including through more than one wholesaler or distributor, and, in some cases, from Hospira directly, Hospira believes that it is not dependent on any single wholesaler or distributor for distribution of its products. Hospira has no single end use customer that accounts for more than 10% of net sales. Hospira has pricing agreements for specified products with the major GPOs in the U.S., including Amerinet, Inc.; HealthTrust Purchasing Group LP; MedAssets Supply Chain Systems LLC; Novation, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. The scope of products included in these agreements varies by GPO. Hospiras primary customers in the EMEA and APAC segments are hospitals and wholesalers that Hospira serves through its own sales force and its distributors. Primary customers in EMEA also include private oncologists and compounding pharmacists. The majority of Hospiras business in the EMEA and APAC segments is conducted through contracting with individual hospitals or through regional or national tenders whereby Hospira submits bids to sell its products. Distribution. In the U.S., Hospiras products are primarily distributed through a network of company operated distribution facilities and third party logistics providers. The primary company operated distribution facilities are identified in "Item 2. Properties" of this report. For the remainder of the Americas segment outside the U.S., Hospira utilizes third party logistics providers and external distributors in markets where Hospira does not have a direct commercial infrastructure. In the EMEA and APAC segments, Hospira manages its distribution operations mainly through third party logistics providers. External distributors are used in markets where we do not have direct commercial infrastructure. Seasonal Aspects and Backlog There are no significant seasonal aspects to Hospiras consolidated net sales. Hospira believes that backlogged orders do not represent a material portion of its sales or provide a meaningful indication of future sales. During 2011, Hospira experienced an increase in backorders due to the quality improvement actions and supply constraints. Product Development Hospiras research and development ("R&D") expenses were $258.8 million in 2011, $300.5 million in 2010 and $240.5 million in 2009. Hospiras product development programs are concentrated in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management. Hospira also maintains an active development program to support its injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing relationships. Hospira engages in programs to bring new products to market that are unique or that enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, productivity, safety or reliability of existing product lines. Hospira also engages in programs to expand the use of products in new markets or new applications. Hospiras principal product development facilities are identified in "Item 2. Properties" of this report. Hospira manages its product development programs and related costs through the following four categories: generic pharmaceuticals, biosimilars, proprietary pharmaceuticals and device products. Generic Pharmaceutical Product Development In 2011, Hospira adopted a new program related to its generic specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line. This program will be executed over the next several years and will require Hospira to qualify certain of its on market products into new countries, and to pursue other on market generic 5 Table of Contents products that are not currently in Hospiras portfolio. Also, during 2011, Hospira changed the methodology for reporting its generic pharmaceutical product pipeline. The previous methodology included products that were set to launch in major markets only, and did not capture Hospiras opportunity to expand its product offerings in all countries where the products were expected to launch. As of December 31, 2011, under the new methodology, Hospiras generic pharmaceutical pipeline consisted of 73 compounds. More than half of the overall pipeline consisted of compounds related to oncology and anti infectives, with the remainder focused on cardiovascular, anesthesia and other areas. For certain of these compounds, Hospira is actively pursuing a strategy of challenging the intellectual property of proprietary pharmaceutical companies in an effort to be the first generic company to the market. As described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors," the applicable regulatory process could delay or prevent Hospira from offering certain of these compounds, or could increase the cost of development. Biosimilar Product Development As of December 31, 2011, Hospiras biosimilar pipeline (including co developed biosimilars with Celltrion, Inc. and Celltrion Healthcare, Inc.) consisted of 11 compounds. In 2011, Hospira announced the start of a U.S. Phase III clinical trial for RetacritTM in patients with renal dysfunction who have anemia. In addition, Celltrion is in the process of completing its program for two of these co developed biosimiliars, infliximab and trastuzumab, and will prepare to submit these development programs to various regulatory health authorities in 2012. While guidelines have existed for the approval of biosimilars in the European Union, Australia and certain other markets that Hospira serves for some time, the regulatory requirements for biosimilars in the U.S. and other countries are still evolving. The FDA recently issued three draft guidance documents regarding biosimiliars. While Hospira is in the process of analyzing these guidelines, they appear to be in line with Hospiras expectations. Hospira will continue to analyze these guidance documents and any final guidelines that are issued by the FDA. The costs of development and approval along with the probability of success for Hospiras biosimilar candidates will be impacted by any final regulations issued by these regulatory authorities. Hospira expects that the product development costs for each internally developed biosimilar candidate could be up to $100 $200 million per biosimilar over a 7 to 8 year period. Hospira has entered into agreements with other companies for the manufacturing, development and marketing of certain of these biosimilar candidates. This is in alignment with Hospiras biosimilar strategy to expand its portfolio and capabilities with measured investment and risk including forming strategic partnerships to assist in bringing the products to market. As an example, in 2009, Hospira entered into an agreement with Celltrion, Inc. and Celltrion Healthcare, Inc. to develop and market biosimilar molecules. For the molecules subject to the agreement, Celltrion is responsible for the development costs. For more information related to the financial impact of that agreement on Hospira, see Note 1 "Supplier Advances" included in the consolidated financial statements in "
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Hospira believes that electronic drug delivery pumps with enhanced systems capabilities have become a key contributor in efforts to improve medication management programs and reduce the incidence of medication errors. Some of Hospiras pumps use bar coding to read drug labels that are compatible with other Hospira products, reducing the opportunity for drug infusion errors. Hospira offers the Hospira MedNetTM safety software system, which has been designed to enable hospitals to customize intravenous drug dosage limits and track drug delivery to prevent medication errors. Through its drug library and programmable drug dosage limits, the system can help ensure that medication is infused within hospital defined dose guidelines and best practices. The wireless network version of the Hospira MedNetTM system establishes real time send and receive capability and can interface with select hospital and pharmacy information systems. Hospira continues to work with hospital information technology companies to integrate the Hospira MedNetTM system with other systems. The Hospira MedNetTM system is standard in the SymbiqTM infusion system, and is also available as an additional feature for the Plum A+TM line, and LifeCare PCATM devices, which, when aggregated represent the majority of Hospiras line of electronic drug delivery pumps. Hospira also offers safety software with its GemStarTM pump. Medication management includes TheraDoc, Inc. products, which are module based clinical surveillance systems that provide patient safety surveillance and clinical decision support. Medication management also includes gravity administration sets and other device products, including needlestick safety products and programs to support Hospiras customers needlestick prevention initiatives. LifeShieldTM CLAVETM and LifeShieldTM MicroCLAVETM connectors are one piece valves that directly connect syringes filled with medications to a patients I.V. line without the use of needles. ICU Medicals CLAVETM connectors are a component of administration sets sold by Hospira to its customers in the U.S. and select markets outside the U.S. Sales, Customers and Distribution Sales. Net sales in the Americas segment accounted for approximately 79% of Hospiras 2011 net sales. Net sales in the EMEA and APAC segments comprised approximately 13% and 8%, respectively, of 2011 net sales. Hospiras sales organizations include sales professionals who sell across its major product lines, as well as product specialists who promote its medication management products, or who market and sell PrecedexTM and select other products. Hospira also has extensive experience contracting with, marketing to and servicing members of the major group purchasing organizations ("GPOs") in the U.S. 4 Table of Contents Customers. Hospiras primary customers in the Americas segment include hospitals, wholesalers, integrated delivery networks ("IDN") and alternate site facilities. In the U.S., a substantial portion of Hospiras product is sold to GPO member hospitals and through wholesalers and distributors. Net sales through the largest four wholesalers that supply products to many end users accounted for approximately 41% of global net sales during 2011. As end users have multiple ways to access Hospiras products, including through more than one wholesaler or distributor, and, in some cases, from Hospira directly, Hospira believes that it is not dependent on any single wholesaler or distributor for distribution of its products. Hospira has no single end use customer that accounts for more than 10% of net sales. Hospira has pricing agreements for specified products with the major GPOs in the U.S., including Amerinet, Inc.; HealthTrust Purchasing Group LP; MedAssets Supply Chain Systems LLC; Novation, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. The scope of products included in these agreements varies by GPO. Hospiras primary customers in the EMEA and APAC segments are hospitals and wholesalers that Hospira serves through its own sales force and its distributors. Primary customers in EMEA also include private oncologists and compounding pharmacists. The majority of Hospiras business in the EMEA and APAC segments is conducted through contracting with individual hospitals or through regional or national tenders whereby Hospira submits bids to sell its products. Distribution. In the U.S., Hospiras products are primarily distributed through a network of company operated distribution facilities and third party logistics providers. The primary company operated distribution facilities are identified in "Item 2. Properties" of this report. For the remainder of the Americas segment outside the U.S., Hospira utilizes third party logistics providers and external distributors in markets where Hospira does not have a direct commercial infrastructure. In the EMEA and APAC segments, Hospira manages its distribution operations mainly through third party logistics providers. External distributors are used in markets where we do not have direct commercial infrastructure. Seasonal Aspects and Backlog There are no significant seasonal aspects to Hospiras consolidated net sales. Hospira believes that backlogged orders do not represent a material portion of its sales or provide a meaningful indication of future sales. During 2011, Hospira experienced an increase in backorders due to the quality improvement actions and supply constraints. Product Development Hospiras research and development ("R&D") expenses were $258.8 million in 2011, $300.5 million in 2010 and $240.5 million in 2009. Hospiras product development programs are concentrated in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management. Hospira also maintains an active development program to support its injectable pharmaceutical contract manufacturing relationships. Hospira engages in programs to bring new products to market that are unique or that enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, productivity, safety or reliability of existing product lines. Hospira also engages in programs to expand the use of products in new markets or new applications. Hospiras principal product development facilities are identified in "Item 2. Properties" of this report. Hospira manages its product development programs and related costs through the following four categories: generic pharmaceuticals, biosimilars, proprietary pharmaceuticals and device products. Generic Pharmaceutical Product Development In 2011, Hospira adopted a new program related to its generic specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line. This program will be executed over the next several years and will require Hospira to qualify certain of its on market products into new countries, and to pursue other on market generic 5 Table of Contents products that are not currently in Hospiras portfolio. Also, during 2011, Hospira changed the methodology for reporting its generic pharmaceutical product pipeline. The previous methodology included products that were set to launch in major markets only, and did not capture Hospiras opportunity to expand its product offerings in all countries where the products were expected to launch. As of December 31, 2011, under the new methodology, Hospiras generic pharmaceutical pipeline consisted of 73 compounds. More than half of the overall pipeline consisted of compounds related to oncology and anti infectives, with the remainder focused on cardiovascular, anesthesia and other areas. For certain of these compounds, Hospira is actively pursuing a strategy of challenging the intellectual property of proprietary pharmaceutical companies in an effort to be the first generic company to the market. As described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors," the applicable regulatory process could delay or prevent Hospira from offering certain of these compounds, or could increase the cost of development. Biosimilar Product Development As of December 31, 2011, Hospiras biosimilar pipeline (including co developed biosimilars with Celltrion, Inc. and Celltrion Healthcare, Inc.) consisted of 11 compounds. In 2011, Hospira announced the start of a U.S. Phase III clinical trial for RetacritTM in patients with renal dysfunction who have anemia. In addition, Celltrion is in the process of completing its program for two of these co developed biosimiliars, infliximab and trastuzumab, and will prepare to submit these development programs to various regulatory health authorities in 2012. While guidelines have existed for the approval of biosimilars in the European Union, Australia and certain other markets that Hospira serves for some time, the regulatory requirements for biosimilars in the U.S. and other countries are still evolving. The FDA recently issued three draft guidance documents regarding biosimiliars. While Hospira is in the process of analyzing these guidelines, they appear to be in line with Hospiras expectations. Hospira will continue to analyze these guidance documents and any final guidelines that are issued by the FDA. The costs of development and approval along with the probability of success for Hospiras biosimilar candidates will be impacted by any final regulations issued by these regulatory authorities. Hospira expects that the product development costs for each internally developed biosimilar candidate could be up to $100 $200 million per biosimilar over a 7 to 8 year period. Hospira has entered into agreements with other companies for the manufacturing, development and marketing of certain of these biosimilar candidates. This is in alignment with Hospiras biosimilar strategy to expand its portfolio and capabilities with measured investment and risk including forming strategic partnerships to assist in bringing the products to market. As an example, in 2009, Hospira entered into an agreement with Celltrion, Inc. and Celltrion Healthcare, Inc. to develop and market biosimilar molecules. For the molecules subject to the agreement, Celltrion is responsible for the development costs. For more information related to the financial impact of that agreement on Hospira, see Note 1 "Supplier Advances" included in the consolidated financial statements in "
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Competition Hospiras industry is highly competitive. Hospira believes that the most effective competitors in its industry are those focused on product quality and performance, breadth of product offering, and manufacturing efficiency as well as the ability to develop and deliver cost effective products that help hospitals improve the safety of patient care, reduce medication errors and provide high quality care. These are increasingly important factors in a healthcare environment that requires increasing levels of efficiency and productivity. Hospiras most significant competitors in specialty injectable pharmaceuticals in the Americas segment include Baxter International Inc. ("Baxter"), Bedford Laboratories (a division of Boehringer Ingelheim), Fresenius Kabi, Pfizer, Sandoz, Sanofi, Teva Pharmaceuticals ("Teva"), as well as divisions of several multinational pharmaceutical companies. Local manufacturers of pharmaceuticals also compete with Hospira on a country by country basis. Hospiras most significant competitors in medication management include Baxter, B. Braun Melsungen AG, CareFusion, Fresenius Kabi and Terumo. Hospira believes that it is one of the leading competitors, in terms of U.S. market share, in each of its major product lines, and believes that its size, scale, customer relationships and breadth of product line are significant contributors to its market positions. Hospira believes that to further its competitive position for both its specialty injectable pharmaceutical and medication management products, it must continue to invest significantly in, and successfully execute, its research and product development activities, its quality initiatives and optimize its manufacturing efficiency and productivity. Particularly, for its pharmaceutical products, Hospira seeks to maximize its opportunity to establish a "first to market" position for its generic injectable drugs. For its medication management products, Hospira seeks to differentiate its products through technological innovation and an integrated approach to drug delivery. In the EMEA segment, competitors include Teva, Sandoz, Actavis, Fresenius Kabi, Intas Pharmaceuticals, Ltd, Medac GmbH, Mylan Inc., Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., and Baxter. The use of generic pharmaceuticals is subject to variations in the structure of health care systems (including purchasing practices) and government policies regarding the use of generic products and pricing, which all lead to differing levels of customer acceptance. There are different policies and levels of generic penetration in each country in EMEA, causing the competition for generic pharmaceuticals to differ widely. In EMEA, competitors tend to vary by country and are often smaller in scale than those in the U.S., although some consolidation and geographic expansion is now occurring. Teva is the largest company that competes with Hospira in the generic oncology market across Europe. Hospiras other key competitors vary from country to country. The use of generic pharmaceuticals in the APAC segment is subject to variations in government policies and public perception. In Australia, generic penetration is moderate and growing primarily due 11 Table of Contents to changes in government support. Competitors include Sandoz, Fresenius Kabi and Aspen, a number of smaller competitors and the originator companies. In Asia, Hospira sells its products primarily to hospitals. Hospiras competition in Asia tends to be with the originator companies and multinational companies such as Teva, Fresenius Kabi and Actavis. In Japan, the market share of generic pharmaceutical products traditionally has been low because of quality perceptions, product format and other regulatory differences in comparison to other markets. The Japanese government is actively pursuing a program to double generic usage. Laws in Japan have been introduced to allow for easier substitution of generics for branded pharmaceuticals and to change financial incentives for hospitals and clinics to use generics, in a government sponsored effort to reduce costs, which is believed to have resulted in an increased acceptance of generic pharmaceutical products. Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property When possible, Hospira seeks patent and trademark protection for its products. Hospira owns, or has licenses under, a substantial number of patents, patent applications, trademarks and trademark applications. Principal products and their related trademarks are discussed in "Item 1.Products." Hospira believes that no single patent, trademark, or related group of patents or trademarks are material in relation to Hospiras business as a whole. Hospira is in patent litigation concerning its proprietary product, PrecedexTM. The patents at issue in that litigation are detailed in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." PrecedexTM represents approximately 6% of Net sales and is licensed to Hospira in the Americas and APAC segments, and in the Middle East and Africa. In the Americas, PrecedexTM represents approximately 10% of specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line net sales. Employees As of December 31, 2011, Hospira had approximately 15,000 employees. Hospira believes that it generally has a good relationship with its employees and the works councils and unions that represent certain employees. Governmental Regulation and Other Matters Hospiras operations and business activities are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements that are enforced by numerous governmental agencies in the countries in which it does business. If it were determined that Hospira was not in compliance with these laws and regulations, Hospira could be subject to criminal and or civil liability and other material adverse effects. Hospira has compliance programs in place to ensure compliance with these laws and believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations. Drug and Medical Device Laws All of Hospiras products and facilities and those of Hospiras suppliers are subject to drug and medical device laws and regulations promulgated by the FDA and national and supranational regulatory authorities outside the U.S., including Health Canadas Health Products and Foods Branch, the U.K.s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, the European Medicines Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for Human Use and Australias Therapeutic Goods Agency. These authorities regulate a range of activities including, among other matters, manufacturing, post marketing studies in humans, advertising and promotion, product labeling, post marketing surveillance and reporting of adverse events. All aspects of Hospiras manufacturing and distribution of regulated products and those of Hospiras suppliers are subject to substantial governmental oversight. Facilities used for the production, packaging, labeling, storage and distribution of drugs and medical devices must be registered with the FDA and other regulatory authorities. All manufacturing activities for these products must be conducted in compliance with current good manufacturing practices. Hospiras manufacturing facilities and those of Hospiras suppliers are subject to periodic, routine and for cause inspections to verify 12 Table of Contents compliance with current good manufacturing practices. New manufacturing facilities or the expansion of existing facilities require inspection and approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities before products produced at that site can enter commercial distribution. If, upon inspection, the FDA or another regulatory agency finds that a manufacturer has failed to comply with current good manufacturing practices, it may take various enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, issuing Form 483 observations or a warning letter or similar correspondence, mandating a product recall, issuing a consent decree, seizing violative product, imposing civil penalties, and referring the matter to a law enforcement authority for criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Hospiras business practices and operations; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of Hospiras facilities while Hospira or Hospiras suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt Hospiras business and have a material adverse effect on Hospiras revenues, profitability and financial condition. For information related to the 2010 Warning Letter received by Hospira and other voluntary recalls and corrective actions, see the sections captioned "Quality Assurance" in this Item 1. above, and "Certain Quality and Product Related Matters" in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Hospira continues to make improvements to our products to further reduce patient safety issues. Based upon our consultations with the FDA and other regulatory authorities, these improvements may require Hospira to initiate recalls or corrective actions if the improvement reduces the health risk posed by the product and not making the improvements to the on market product is deemed a patient safety issue. See discussion regarding corrective actions to Hospiras pumps under the sections captioned "Quality Assurance" in this Item 1. and "Certain Quality and Product Related Matters" in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Hospiras sales and marketing activities for its products are also highly regulated. Regulatory authorities have the power to mandate the discontinuation of promotional materials, practices and programs that include information beyond the scope of the indications in the approved or cleared labeling or that are not in compliance with specific regulatory requirements. Some of Hospiras drug products are considered controlled substances and are subject to additional regulation by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") and various state and international authorities. These drugs, which have varying degrees of potential for abuse, require specialized controls for production, storage and distribution to prevent theft and diversion. Hospira continues investing in the development of generic and or similar versions of currently marketed biopharmaceuticals. Since 2005, the European Medicines Agency has implemented guidelines which provided a pathway for the approval of certain biosimilars in the European Union. In 2010, the "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act" ("PPACA") was passed and signed into law in the U.S. This legislation includes new authorization for the FDA to approve companies to market these products in the U.S. In addition, other provisions, such as the medical device excise tax of the PPACA, are not considered to have a significant impact on Hospira in the future. In early 2012, the FDA recently issued three draft guidance documents regarding biosimiliars, and Hospira is in the process of analyzing these guidelines. Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws As a manufacturer and distributor of prescription drugs and medical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers, Hospira and its customers are subject to laws which apply to Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs in the U.S. One such law, the Anti kickback Statute, prohibits the solicitation, offer, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for referral or purchase, or in return for the recommending or arranging for the referral or purchase, of products covered by the programs. The Anti kickback Statute provides a number of exceptions or "safe harbors" 13 Table of Contents for particular types of transactions. While Hospira generally does not file claims for reimbursement from government payers, the U.S. federal government has asserted theories of liability against manufacturers under the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false claims to Medicare, Medicaid, and other state and federal programs. Many states have similar fraud and abuse laws which apply to Hospira. Anti bribery Laws Hospiras global activities are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("U.S. FCPA") the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and other countries anti bribery laws that have been enacted in support of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Developments Anti bribery Convention. These laws prohibit companies and individuals from offering or providing anything of value to government officials with the intent of inappropriately gaining a business advantage. They also require companies to maintain accurate books and records and internal financial controls. The U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 also prohibits commercial bribery and makes it a crime for a company to fail to prevent bribery. Companies have the burden of proving that they have adequate procedures in place to prevent bribery. The enforcement of such laws in the U.S. and elsewhere has increased dramatically in the past few years, and authorities have indicated that the pharmaceutical and medical device industry will be a significant focus for enforcement efforts. Hospira has a compliance program in place to ensure compliance with these laws by its employees and agents and to communicate its expectations of compliance to third parties, including its distributors. Environmental Laws Hospiras manufacturing operations are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state agencies administer laws which restrict the emission of pollutants into the air, the discharge of pollutants into bodies of water and the disposal of hazardous substances. The failure to obtain a permit for certain activities may be a violation of environmental laws. Most environmental agencies also have the power to shut down an operation if it is operating in violation of environmental laws. U.S. laws also allow citizens to bring private enforcement actions in some situations. Outside the U.S., the environmental laws and their enforcement vary, and can be more burdensome. For example, in some European countries, there are environmental taxes and laws requiring manufacturers to take back used products at the end of their useful life. This does not currently have a significant impact on Hospiras products, but such laws are expanding rapidly in Europe. Hospira has management systems in place that are intended to minimize the potential for violation of these laws. Other environmental laws address the contamination of land and groundwater, and require the clean up of such contamination. Hospira has been involved with a number of sites at which clean up has been required, some as the sole owner and responsible party, and some as a contributor in conjunction with other parties. Although Hospira continues to make capital expenditures for environmental protection, Hospira does not anticipate any significant expenditure in order to comply with such laws and regulations that would have a material impact on our operations, results or competitive position. State Laws There are numerous requirements imposed by individual states in the U.S. on pharmaceutical and medical device companies doing business in those states. For example, several states and the District of Columbia either require the tracking and reporting of specific types of interactions with healthcare professionals or restrict such interactions. A similar requirement arose under the PPACA to track spending on physicians and teaching institutions. The effective date of this reporting requirement has been postponed, but is expected to preempt some but not all of the state disclosure requirements. Other countries, including the U.K and France, are adopting similar reporting requirements. 14 Table of Contents Other Laws Hospira is also subject to a variety of other laws, directives and regulations in and outside of the U.S., including those related to the following: the safety and health laws of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, which sets forth requirements for conditions of the workplace; the laws administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation and similar foreign agencies related to transporting materials defined as "hazardous" over land , sea, or through the air; and the customs, export and anti boycott laws of the U.S. and foreign government agencies, including the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Department of Commerce and the Office of Foreign Assets Control Treasury Department, as well as others. Hospira uses reasonable care to stay abreast of, and plans for, proposed legislation that could significantly affect our operations. Available Information Copies of Hospiras Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Hospira electronically files or furnishes such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Hospiras corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and the charters of its audit, compensation, governance and public policy, and science, technology and quality committees are all available in the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) or by sending a request to: Corporate Governance Materials Request, Hospira General Counsel and Secretary, Hospira, Inc., 275 North Field Drive, Dept. NLEG, Bldg. H1, Lake Forest, Illinois 60045. Hospira also routinely posts important information for investors on its Web site (www.hospira.com) in its Investor Relations section. Hospira may use this Web site as a means of disclosing material, non public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of Hospiras Web site, in addition to following Hospiras press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Information contained on Hospiras Web site shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10 K.  Item 1A. Risk Factors Hospiras business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. These risks and uncertainties may cause (1) Hospiras sales and results of operations to fluctuate significantly; (2) Hospiras past performance to not be indicative of future performance; and (3) Hospiras actual performance to differ materially from Hospiras expectations or projections. The risks described below may not be the only risks Hospira faces. Additional risks that Hospira does not yet know of or that Hospira currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations. This Form 10 K also contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Hospiras results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below. See the section captioned "Forward Looking Statements" in the section preceding Part 1. 15 Table of Contents Hospira faces significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Hospira competes with many companies that range from small, highly focused companies to large diversified healthcare manufacturers that have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. There has been consolidation by Hospiras competitors and customer base, which has resulted in pricing and sales pressures, causing competition to become more intense. Hospiras present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by competitors or by the introduction of competing products by one or more of its competitors. To remain competitive and bolster its competitive position, Hospira believes that it must successfully execute various strategic plans, including expanding its research and development initiatives and productivity, lowering its operating costs, and improving its quality and business processes. These initiatives may result in significant expenditures and ultimately may not be successful. Hospiras failure to compete effectively could cause it to lose market share to its competitors and have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. If Hospira does not successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, its sales and operating results may decline. A key component to Hospiras strategy is effective execution of its research and development activities. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, Hospiras products may become obsolete over time, causing its sales and operating results to suffer. If Hospira does not continue to develop generic injectable pharmaceuticals in a timely manner, its competitors may develop products that are more competitive than Hospiras, and Hospira could find it more difficult to renew or expand GPO pricing agreements or to obtain new agreements. The ability to launch a generic pharmaceutical product at or before generic market formation is important to that products profitability. Prices for generic products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following market formation, as additional companies receive approvals to market that product and competition intensifies. If a company can be "first to market," such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved. With increasing competition in the generic product market, the timeliness with which Hospira can market new generic products will increase in importance. If Hospira is unable to bring its generic products to market on a timely basis, and secure "first to market" positions, its sales and profitability could be adversely impacted. Hospira is also actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products. Hospira has entered into an agreement described under "Item 1. Product Development" related to expanding its biosimilars portfolio and capabilities. The success of our biosimilars activities depends on several factors, including among other factors, the adoption of certain laws and regulations, ability to obtain regulatory approvals, and the success of the arrangements with third parties. These activities will require a substantial investment of the companys resources, which may not result in commercially successful products. In 2010, the Patient Protection Affordable Care Act was passed and signed into law in the U.S. This legislation includes new authorization to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") to approve companies to market biosimilar products in the U.S. In early 2012, the FDA recently issued three draft guidance documents regarding biosimiliars, and Hospira is in the process of analyzing these guidelines. Hospira may not be able to generate future sales of such products in certain jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of its investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for product candidates could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs. Hospira faces similar risks if it does not introduce new versions or upgrades to its medication management portfolio. Innovations generally require a substantial investment in product development before Hospira can determine their commercial viability, and Hospira may not have the financial 16 Table of Contents resources necessary to fund these innovations. Even if Hospira succeeds in creating new product candidates from these innovations, such innovations may still fail to result in commercially successful products. For further information related to upgrades to Hospiras SymbiqTM pump and other medication management products, see the section captioned "Quality Assurance" in "Item 1. Business." The success of new product offerings will depend on several factors, including Hospiras ability to properly anticipate customer needs, obtain timely regulatory approvals, and manufacture quality products in an economic and timely manner. Even if Hospira is able to successfully develop new products or enhancements, we may not produce sales equal to or greater than the costs of development or may not avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Such products may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Moreover, innovations may not become successful because of difficulties encountered in achieving positive clinical outcomes, meeting safety, efficacy or other regulatory requirements of government agencies, or obtaining favorable pricing on such products. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, and uncertainty over third party reimbursement. Hospiras issues with its quality systems and processes could have an adverse effect upon Hospiras business, subject Hospira to further regulatory action and costly litigation, and cause a loss of confidence in Hospira and its products. Hospiras future operating results will depend on its ability to implement and improve its quality management program, and effectively train and manage its employee base with respect to quality management. During 2010 and 2011, Hospira has encountered several quality and product related issues referenced in an FDA Warning Letter and subsequent inspections related thereto and certain device remediation activities, including those related to SymbiqTM and PlumTM. Hospira has also committed to the FDA that it would engage in a comprehensive product review for each of Hospiras medication management products. For information related to all of these quality and product related matters, see the section captioned "Quality Assurance" in "Item 1. Business." For information related to the costs to remediate these matters, see the section captioned "Certain Quality and Product Related Matters" in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." While Hospira takes all of these matters seriously, Hospira cannot give any assurances as to the expected date of resolution of all of these matters. While Hospira continues to work to resolve the remaining matters, there can be no assurance that additional costs or penalties will not be incurred, and that additional regulatory actions with respect to Hospira will not occur. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that regulatory agencies or customers will be satisfied with Hospiras response and corrective actions. Until all of the matters are corrected, Hospira may be subject to additional regulatory actions by the FDA, including the withholding of approval of new drug applications, the imposition of a consent decree, product seizure, injunction, and or civil monetary penalties. In addition, new product approvals at all of Hospiras manufacturing facilities could be adversely impacted by these quality matters or any other adverse inspection results at Hospiras other facilities. Further, these quality issues could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in additional Form 483 observations, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, consent decrees, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal or a slowdown of governmental agencies to grant approvals and licenses, withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses, or other restrictions on operations. Hospiras inability to address quality or safety issues in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence, which may result in the loss of sales for existing and new products. All of these issues could erode investor confidence, which could cause further fluctuations in Hospiras stock price or changes to Hospiras credit rating, which could increase Hospiras cost of borrowing. 17 Table of Contents Furthermore, these matters, including the ship hold of Symbiq pumps, could result in the loss of market share for these products, changes to customer buying patterns, loss of customers, and failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements with GPOs. Due to the complexity and depth of these anticipated remediation activities, and dependent upon the schedules for remediation, and the outcomes from the product assessments, these matters have and may continue to adversely impact production, including causing further reduced production volumes, inventory accumulation and or inventory loss due to spoilage, excess, obsolescence or products failing to meet specifications. These quality matters have and may lead to further remediation actions, including recalls or other corrective actions or further adverse regulatory actions. Additionally, these quality matters have adversely impacted, and may impact further, Hospiras net sales and ability to market certain products in all segments. These matters have impacted, and may continue to further impact, Hospiras cash flows. This decrease in cash flows could limit Hospiras flexibility in pursuing its current strategic investments, including Hospiras capacity expansion initiatives in India, modernization efforts at existing facilities, biosimilar research and development programs, global product portfolio expansion efforts, or any other programs Hospira decides to pursue. Hospira may have to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to fund quality initiatives, thereby reducing the cash flow for these other initiatives. Hospira has experienced delays in product approvals at its facilities, and dependent upon the outcomes of these matters and potential further regulatory actions, further delays in, or denials of product approvals could continue to impact Hospira. These quality matters have resulted in, and may further result in, lower customer service levels and resulting higher customer backorders and penalties for failure to supply products. Failure to effectively manage efforts or to realize the benefits under product collaboration agreements may harm Hospiras business and profitability. Hospira collaborates with other companies for the development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of new products in both the specialty injectable pharmaceutical and medication management product lines. Hospira has entered into agreements relating to the long term development and commercialization of proprietary and biosimilar products, which Hospira views as an important long term opportunity for its specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line. For further information related to these agreements, see the section captioned "Product Development" in "Item 1. Business." Hospiras ability to benefit from these arrangements will depend on its ability to successfully manage these arrangements and the performance of the other parties to these arrangements. Hospira and the other parties to these arrangements may not efficiently work together, leading to higher than anticipated costs and delays in important activities under the arrangements. The other parties to these arrangements may not devote the resources that are required for the arrangement to be successful. These arrangements are often governed by complex agreements that may be subject to differing interpretations by the parties, which may result in disputes. The development of proprietary and biosimilar products may require substantial investment by Hospira, and involve a higher degree of risk. Hospira may not be able to realize the expected benefits of such investment. These factors are often beyond the control of Hospira, and could harm Hospiras sales, product development efforts and profitability. Hospira is subject to the cost containment efforts of wholesalers, distributors, third party payors and government organizations, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Hospira relies on drug wholesalers to assist in the distribution of its generic injectable pharmaceutical products. While Hospira has business arrangements in place with its major drug wholesalers, if Hospira is required to pay fees not contemplated by its existing arrangements, Hospira will incur additional costs to distribute its products, which may harm Hospiras profitability. 18  Table of Contents Hospiras products and services are sold to hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third party payors, such as government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. These third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement, if any, may be decreased in the future, and future healthcare reform legislation, regulations or changes to reimbursement policies of third party payors may otherwise adversely affect the demand for and price levels of Hospiras products, which could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales and profitability. In markets outside the U.S., Hospiras business has experienced downward pressure on product pricing as a result of the concentrated buying power of governments as principal customers and the use of bid and tender sales methods whereby Hospira is required to submit a bid for the sale of its products. Hospiras failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability in these markets. If Hospira is unable to obtain or maintain its GPO and IDN pricing agreements, sales of its products could decline. Many existing and potential customers for Hospiras products have combined to form GPOs, and IDNs in an effort to lower costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPOs or an IDNs affiliated hospitals and other members. A small number of GPOs influence a majority of sales to Hospiras hospital customers in the U.S. Failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements could cause Hospira to lose market share to its competitors and have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. The quality and related supply issues that have impacted Hospiras business over the last few years could adversely impact Hospiras ability to negotiate advantageous pricing or purchasing arrangements. Hospira has pricing agreements for certain products with the major GPOs in the U.S., including Amerinet, Inc.; HealthTrust Purchasing Group LP; MedAssets Supply Chain Systems, LLC; Novation, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. It is important for Hospira to continue to maintain pricing arrangements with major GPOs. In order to maintain these relationships, Hospira must offer a reliable supply of high quality, regulatory compliant products. Hospira also needs to maintain a broad product line and be price competitive. Several GPO contracts are up for renewal or extension each year. Moreover, some of the agreements may be terminated on 60 or 90 days notice, while others may not be terminated without breach until the end of their contracted term. If Hospira is unable to renew or extend one or more of those contracts, or one or more of the contracts are terminated, and Hospira cannot replace lost business, Hospiras sales and profitability will decline. There has been consolidation among major GPOs, and further consolidation may occur. The effect of consolidation is uncertain, and consolidation may impair Hospiras ability to contract with GPOs in the future. The GPOs also have a variety of business relationships with Hospiras competitors and may decide to enter into pricing agreements for, or otherwise prefer, products other than Hospiras. While GPOs negotiate incentives for members to purchase specified products from a given manufacturer or distributor, GPO pricing agreements allow customers to choose between the products covered by the arrangement and another manufacturers products, whether or not purchased under a negotiated pricing agreement. As a result, Hospira may face competition for its products even within the context of its GPO pricing agreements. 19 Table of Contents Changes in the buying patterns of Hospiras customers could adversely affect Hospiras operating results. During 2011, sales through the four largest U.S. wholesalers that supply products to many end users accounted for approximately 41% of Hospiras global net sales. Hospiras profitability may be impacted by changes in the buying patterns of these wholesalers, or any other major distributor, or wholesale customer. Their buying patterns may change as a result of end use buyer purchasing decisions, end use customer demand, pricing, or other factors, which could adversely affect Hospiras results of operations. Hospira and its suppliers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and it could be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to sanctions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Hospiras products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device, particularly from the FDA and governmental authorities outside the U.S., can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. To ensure ongoing customer safety, regulatory agencies such as the FDA may re evaluate their current approval processes and may impose additional requirements. In addition, the FDA and others may impose increased or enhanced regulatory inspections for domestic or foreign plants. The FDA, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug and medical device applications, which has delayed approvals of new products. Those delays have become longer, and may continue to increase in the future. These delays can result in higher levels of unapproved inventory and increased costs due to excess and obsolescence exposures. In addition, Hospira may incur additional costs in connection with new regulations covering user fees for generics, biosimilars or devices. Hospira and its collaborative partners and suppliers may not be able to remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other material regulatory requirements once it has obtained clearance or approval for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, off label marketing, advertising and postmarketing reporting, and adverse event reports and field alerts. In addition, manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off label uses or inadequate disclosure of product related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. Hospira and its partners or suppliers may be required by regulatory authorities, or determine on its own, to issue a safety alert, recall or temporarily cease production and sale of certain products to resolve manufacturing and product quality concerns. All of these events could harm Hospiras sales, margins and profitability in the affected periods and may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business. Hospira is also subject to various federal, state, and foreign laws pertaining to foreign corrupt practices and healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in national, federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs and health programs outside the U.S. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Hospira to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Hospiras business and result in a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales, profitability and financial condition. For a more detailed listing of the laws and regulations that significantly affect Hospiras business and operations, see the section captioned "Governmental Regulation and Other Matters" in "Item 1. 20 Table of Contents Business." Any adverse regulatory action, or action taken by Hospira to maintain appropriate regulatory compliance, with respect to these laws and regulations could disrupt Hospiras business and have a material adverse effect on its sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, an adverse regulatory action with respect to any Hospira product, operating procedure or manufacturing facility could materially harm Hospiras reputation in the marketplace. Proposed changes in FDA regulations or actions related to infusion pumps and medical devices may lead to increased costs and delays, which could negatively impact Hospiras business. In April 2010, the FDA issued a draft guidance document entitled "Total Product Life Cycle: Infusion Pump Premarket Notification [510(k)] Submissions." Through this draft guidance, the FDA has established additional pre market requirements for infusion pumps. The proposed guidance is subject to further revisions by the FDA, but the FDAs expectation is that the guidelines should be followed in the interim. At the same time, the FDA is also enhancing its pre market requirements for medical devices generally. Although Hospira cannot predict with certainty the future impact of these initiatives, it appears that the process for obtaining regulatory approvals to market infusion pumps and medical devices will become more costly and time consuming. In addition, the new requirements could result in longer delays for the approval of new products as well as remediation of existing products in the market. Future delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals could result in delayed or no realization of product revenues. Hospira may continue to acquire businesses and assets, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, form alliances, or dispose of businesses and assets, and any of these actions may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, or at all. As part of Hospiras business strategy, Hospira may continue to acquire other businesses and assets, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, form alliances, or dispose of businesses and assets, and any of these actions may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, or at all. Hospira also may pursue strategic alliances to expand its product offerings and geographic presence. Moreover, Hospira has entered into agreements with other companies to share in the manufacturing and development of certain biosimilar candidates. Hospira may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement, strategic alliance, or disposition. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with Hospira for opportunities. If Hospira is successful in securing certain opportunities, the products and technologies that Hospira acquires may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Hospira may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business. To finance acquisitions or other investments, Hospira has incurred, and may continue to incur or assume significant debt. This significant indebtedness may require Hospira to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to servicing its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments, and for general corporate purposes. In addition, this significant indebtedness may increase Hospiras vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates. In addition, this may limit Hospiras flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to its business and industry. Hospira may incur greater than expected costs in connection with these transactions if it encounters difficulties or issues not known to it at the time of entering into the transaction. In addition, Hospira may enter markets in which it has no or limited prior experience. Hospira could experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition related charges. Any of these negative effects could cause a downgrade of Hospiras credit rating, which would affect Hospiras ability to obtain new financing and negatively impact Hospiras cost of financing and credit. 21 Table of Contents The Company is increasingly dependent on its outsourcing and third party provider arrangements. Hospira is increasing its dependence on third party providers for certain services, including certain information technology, research and development, third party manufacturing, and finance and accounting outsourcing arrangements. The failure of these service providers to meet their obligations or the development of significant disagreements or other factors may materially disrupt Hospiras ongoing relationship with these providers or the services they provide, which could negatively affect operations. Challenging economic or business conditions could adversely affect our operations. The securities and credit markets have experienced volatility in the past, and in some cases, exerted negative pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain companies. Hospiras ability to access the credit and capital markets, and the related cost of borrowings, will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, the availability of credit and the strength of Hospiras credit rating. If Hospiras credit rating were to be downgraded for any reason, including the reasons described in this "Item 1A. Risk Factors," Hospiras cost of borrowing could increase, and Hospiras ability to obtain new financing could be negatively impacted. Lending institutions, including those associated with Hospiras $1.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in 2016, may suffer losses due to their lending and other financial relationships. As a result, lenders may become insolvent, which could affect the actual availability of credit under Hospiras revolving credit facility, or Hospiras ability to obtain other financing on equally favorable terms. Moreover, insurance companies and other financial institutions may suffer losses, which could affect the cost and availability of insurance coverage. If one or more of these events occurred, Hospiras liquidity may prove to be insufficient, cost of borrowing may increase and Hospiras financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Demand for Hospiras products may decrease due to adverse economic conditions, resulting in the loss of jobs or healthcare coverage, thereby affecting an individuals ability to pay for elective healthcare. Adverse economic conditions may also increase Hospiras customers cost containment efforts, and affect Hospiras customers solvency or their ability to obtain credit to finance their purchases of Hospiras products, which could reduce Hospiras revenue and cause a decrease in Hospiras profitability. These economic conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products. Acquisitions have increased Hospiras investment balances, intangible assets and goodwill balances, and a decline in the value of assets may adversely affect Hospiras financial position or results of operation. As a result of Hospiras acquisitions, intangible assets and goodwill have become significant. The values for these assets can be affected by factors, such as increased competition, development discontinuation, delay in regulatory approval, product quality, changes in business strategies, decline in stock price, and the impact of restructurings, disposition transactions, and business combinations. As a result of these factors or other events, Hospira has impaired goodwill and certain intangible assets and may further have to impair these assets or change estimated useful lives, which may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras financial position or results of operations. In addition, Hospira regularly reviews its investments, including equity and cost based investments, to determine when a significant event or change in circumstance has occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value of each investment. Hospira considers numerous factors, including factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry of the investee, and general equity market trends. Hospira also considers the length of time an investments market value has been below carrying value and the near term prospects for recovery to carrying value. Volatility in the global equity markets and other factors could adversely impact the fair value of Hospiras investments and, as a consequence, 22 Table of Contents could result in a charge for an other than temporary decline in value, which could have an adverse effect on Hospiras financial position and results of operations. The manufacture of Hospiras products is highly exacting and complex, and if Hospira or its suppliers encounter problems manufacturing, storing or distributing products, Hospiras business could suffer. The manufacture of Hospiras products and products Hospira produces for third parties is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements governing the manufacture of drugs and medical devices. Problems may arise during manufacturing, quality control, storage or distribution of Hospiras products and products Hospira manufactures for third parties for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, manufacturing quality concerns, or problems with raw materials, electromechanical, software and other components, supplier issues, and natural disaster related events or other environmental factors. If problems arise during the production, storage or distribution of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. Problems could also lead to increased costs, lost sales, damage to customer relations, failure to supply penalties, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, voluntary recalls, corrective actions or product liability related costs may also be incurred. Problems with respect to the manufacture, storage or distribution of its products could materially disrupt Hospiras business and harm its sales and profitability. Certain of Hospiras products are produced at a single manufacturing facility, and we face risks inherent in manufacturing our products at a single facility or a single site. Any disruption would likely lead to substantial production delays. If this occurs, we may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. During 2010 and 2011, Hospira temporarily shut down certain of its production lines or slowed the release of certain products to respond to certain quality issues, as described in the section captioned "Manufacturing" in "Item 1 Business." Such disruptions have adversely impacted, and continue to adversely impact, Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. If Hospira experiences any further significant interruptions of manufacturing or further slow down in the release of products at any of its facilities, such an interruption could further materially and adversely affect Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. Hospira can experience higher costs to produce its products as a result of rising commodity prices. Hospira uses commodities, such as platinum, resins and other petroleum based materials as raw materials in many of its products. Prices of oil, fuel, and other gases also significantly affect Hospiras costs for freight and utilities. Platinum, oil, fuel, and other gas prices are volatile. If costs increase and Hospira is unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions or hedging activities, Hospira could experience lower margins and profitability. Hospira depends on third parties to supply raw materials and other components, and third party finished goods. Hospira may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which could limit Hospiras ability to manufacture or sell products on a timely basis and could harm its profitability. The manufacture of Hospiras products requires raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient and electromechanical and other components that must meet stringent FDA and other regulatory requirements. While efforts are made to diversify our sources of materials and components, some of these raw materials and other components are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, Hospira relies on certain proprietary components available exclusively from ICU Medical and active pharmaceutical ingredients from Orchid Chemical. For a more detailed description of those relationships, see the section captioned "Raw Materials and Components" in "Item 1. Business." 23 Table of Contents In addition, Hospira purchases from single sources certain compounding materials, polyvinyl chloride resin and laminate film components for Hospiras production of certain flexible bags that it uses with its I.V. and pre mixed solutions, as well as rubber components that it uses with some of its injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira also obtains from single sources certain active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. Identifying alternative suppliers and obtaining approval to change or substitute a raw material or component, or the supplier of a finished product, raw material or component, can be time consuming and expensive, as testing, validation and regulatory approval are necessary. While we work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In the past, Hospiras business has experienced shortages in some of the raw materials and components of its products. Continuous supply of petroleum based products is especially risky due to the limited number of capable suppliers, limited production capacity and the effect of natural disasters. If suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or if supply is otherwise disrupted, including by suppliers exiting the market, the manufacture and sale of Hospiras products may be disrupted, and its sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Hospiras continuous improvement activities have resulted, and may continue to result, in significant charges and cash expenditures. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended improvement or cost savings. Hospiras strategy, in part, has been to improve margins and cash flow to drive sustained growth. In addition to cost reduction initiatives, Hospira has taken various other actions to dispose of, or close, certain manufacturing, research and development, and other facilities. These actions have resulted in significant charges to Hospiras results of operations and cash expenditures. Hospira aims to achieve a culture of continuous improvement that will enhance its efficiency, effectiveness, and competitiveness and substantially improve its cost base. Continuous improvement activities could result in additional charges and cash expenditures, including capital expenditures and charges associated with Hospiras expansion in India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity. Furthermore, Hospira expects higher capital expenditures related to modernizing and streamlining its existing facilities. If Hospira does not realize the expected savings from its continuous improvement efforts, its profitability may be adversely affected. Cost reduction and continuous improvement activities are complex, and if Hospira does not successfully manage these activities, its operations and business could be disrupted and Hospira may incur more costs than anticipated. In connection with these activities, the companys failure to hire or retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that are critical to its business functions could adversely impact the execution of its business strategy. Hospiras manufacturing capacity could limit its ability to expand its business without significant capital investment. From time to time, Hospira may need to invest substantial capital resources to expand its manufacturing capacity if Hospira introduces new products, demand increases significantly for its products, or if it is successful in obtaining significant additional customers for its injectable pharmaceuticals contract manufacturing services business. In 2011, to ensure Hospiras manufacturing capacity aligns with expected future commercial growth and demand, Hospira began expansion in India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity. Hospira anticipates that the first commercial products will be released from this facility in 2014. Further, Hospira is taking steps over the next few years to prepare for facility modernization and streamlining at its existing manufacturing facilities. These 24 Table of Contents expansion and modernization efforts may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all, and Hospira may not realize the desired benefits of these efforts. As a result of cost reduction efforts over the last few years, Hospira has announced the closing of, or has sold, certain of its facilities. While Hospira believes it has available manufacturing capacity to absorb, or has had the ability to outsource, the production at these closed or sold facilities, there may be less available capacity at Hospiras facilities. If Hospira experiences an interruption in manufacturing at any of its primary manufacturing facilities, it may not be able to produce sufficient products for its customers. In some cases, the manufacturing of Hospiras products is concentrated in one or a few locations. Any significant interruption in Hospiras ability to manufacture products over an extended duration may result in delays in Hospiras ability to resume production of affected products or to begin production of new products, which may adversely impact our ability to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis. As a result, Hospira may suffer loss of market share, which may not be recaptured, and its reputation may be harmed, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Hospira experienced interruptions and a slow down in the release of products at certain of its manufacturing facilities for the reasons described in "Item 1. Quality Assurance." As a result, Hospiras sales, margins and profitability have been adversely impacted, and if further interruptions occur, Hospira may have further adverse impacts to its sales, margin and profitability. Hospira relies on the performance of its information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on Hospiras business and performance. Hospira operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure to manage our finances, and to manufacture, enable compliance and to market and sell our products. These systems are vulnerable to interruption or failure due to the age of certain of our systems, viruses, malware, security breaches, fire, power loss, system malfunction and other events, which may be beyond Hospiras control. Systems interruptions or failures could reduce Hospiras ability to manufacture its products or continue its business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras operations and financial performance. In addition, a cyber attack that bypasses our information technology security systems causing a security breach may lead to a material disruption of our information technology business systems and or the loss of business information resulting in an adverse business impact. The age of Hospiras information technology systems, as well as the level of Hospiras protection and business continuity or disaster recovery capability, varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. Hospiras capital investment levels in its information technology systems will increase over the next few years as Hospira expects to replace certain old, fully depreciated systems. Hospira conducts operations outside of the U.S. and is subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, that may cause its sales and profitability to decline. Sales in markets outside the U.S. comprised approximately 30% of 2011 net sales. Hospira anticipates that sales from outside the U.S. will continue to represent a significant portion of net sales. The additional risks associated with Hospiras operations outside the U.S. include: (i)fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (for a discussion of the ways and extent to which Hospira attempts to mitigate such risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."); (ii)multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change, which may delay or deter Hospiras international product commercialization efforts; 25 Table of Contents (iii)differing local medical practices, product preferences and product requirements, or changing government reimbursement practices; (iv)trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other controls or restrictions; (v)difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations outside the U.S.; (vi)differing labor regulations or work stoppages or strikes at Hospiras union facilities; (vii)complying with U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the U.S. FCPA, and anti boycott laws, and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010; (viii)loss of business through government tenders that are held annually in many cases; (ix)potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws, including legislative changes concerning taxation of income earned outside of the U.S.; (x)political and economic instability, including the European financial crisis or other economic instability in other parts of the world and the impact on Hospiras receivables; (xi)disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic area, due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers, caused by natural or man made disasters or other causes; and (xii)diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S. In addition, Hospira operates in many countries outside the U.S. through distributors. Its success will depend on the efforts and performance of such distributors, which are beyond Hospiras control. While Hospira has programs in place to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations impacting Hospira and its distributors, if it were determined that a distributor was not in compliance with certain laws and regulations, Hospira could be subject to civil and or criminal liability and other material adverse effects. Moreover, if certain of those distributor relationships are unsuccessful, the costs to terminate such distributor relationship and or to re establish a customer base could adversely affect Hospiras profitability in certain regions. These risks could have an adverse effect on Hospiras ability to distribute and sell its products in markets outside the U.S. and could adversely affect Hospiras profitability. Hospira is involved in various lawsuits and proceedings that could negatively affect its business. Hospira is involved in various claims and legal proceedings, as well as product liability claims and proceedings related to Hospiras business, including in some instances when Hospira operated as part of Abbott. In some instances, these claims and proceedings could preclude the continued sale and marketing of Hospiras products or otherwise adversely affect operations, profitability or liquidity. In addition, Hospira has been named as a defendant in class action lawsuits and shareholder derivative lawsuits. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" for more information regarding these lawsuits. These matters could have an adverse effect on Hospiras business, profitability or financial condition. In addition, there could be an increase in scope of these matters and there could be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future. In light of these uncertainties, we cannot assure that the outcome of these matters will not result in charges in excess of any established accruals. In the past, Hospira has been involved in investigations related to improper marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products. Hospira could be subject to these investigations or lawsuits again in the future, and these matters could have an adverse impact on Hospira. 26 Table of Contents Hospira may incur product liability losses and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. Hospiras business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of drugs, medical devices and other products. In the ordinary course of business, Hospira is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits, safety alerts, recalls or corrective actions, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Hospira is responsible for all liabilities, including liabilities for claims and lawsuits, related to its business, whether they arose before or after the spin off, other than certain liabilities relating to allegations that it engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices in connection with federal, state or private reimbursement for its products. As part of Hospiras risk management policy, Hospira carries third party product liability insurance coverage, which includes a substantial retention or deductible which provides that Hospira will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of that retention or deductible. To the extent that any losses are within these retentions or deductibles, Hospira will be responsible for the administration and payment of these losses. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. If Hospira is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its business and prospects could be harmed. Hospira relies on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, continuing technological innovation and, in some cases, patent, trademark and service mark protection to preserve its competitive position. A failure to protect Hospiras intellectual property could harm its business and prospects, and its efforts to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate. Principal products and their related trademarks are discussed in the section captioned "Products" in "Item 1. Business," and the patents related to PrecedexTM, which represents approximately 6% of Hospiras net sales and is licensed to Hospira in the Americas and APAC segments, and in the Middle East and Africa, are discussed in the section captioned "Patents, Trademarks, and other Intellectual Property" in "Item 1.Business" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." In the Americas, Precedex represents approximately 10% of specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line net sales. Most of Hospiras products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights, and have limited or no market exclusivity. Patent filings by third parties could render Hospiras intellectual property less valuable. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in certain countries outside the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also harm sales of Hospiras products by designing products that mirror the capabilities of those products or technology without infringing Hospiras intellectual property rights. If Hospira does not obtain or maintain sufficient protection for its intellectual property, Hospiras competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit its growth and future sales. If Hospira infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties, Hospira may face legal action, increased costs and delays in marketing new products. Hospira seeks to launch generic pharmaceutical products either where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid or where products do not infringe the patents of others. To achieve a "first to market" position for generic pharmaceutical products, Hospira may take action, such as litigation, to seek to assert that its products do not infringe 27 Table of Contents patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. These actions and litigation could be costly and time consuming, and may not be successful. Hospira has made certain abbreviated new drug applications ("ANDA") with Paragraph IV certifications that the relevant patents for existing products would not be infringed by a Hospira product, or were invalid or unenforceable, in the U.S. and equivalent filings in Canada. Claims filed by innovators contesting these certifications may delay or prevent the launch of the relevant products and result in additional costs. Hospira is currently involved in patent related disputes with companies over Hospiras attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products. Once Hospira has final approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals, Hospira may decide to commercially market these products while the ultimate disposition of legal proceedings has not concluded. For example in 2011, Hospira received final FDA approval in the U.S. and launched an oncolytic drug docetaxel (a generic version of Sanofi Aventis Taxotere&reg;) that is the subject of ongoing patent litigation. If Hospiras products are ultimately found to infringe the patent rights of another company, Hospira may be subject to significant damages, which may be based on a reasonable royalty or the lost profits from the sale of the branded product and or an injunction preventing Hospira from further sales. For further detail related to Hospiras patent related litigation, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Third parties may claim that Hospiras products are infringing their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could be costly and time consuming and might require Hospira to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, if Hospira is able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms. Hospira also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing it from manufacturing, selling or using some of its products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. Changes in the funded status or costs of Hospiras pension or post retirement benefit plans could adversely affect Hospiras financial position and results of operations. The funded status of Hospiras pension and post retirement benefit plans is subject to developments and changes in actuarial and other related assumptions. Decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly with respect to equity securities, and a change in the actual rate of return on plan assets can result in significant changes to the expected return on plan assets in the following year and, as a consequence, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. In addition, changes in assumptions, such as discount rates, mortality rates, healthcare cost trend rates and other factors, may lead to significant increases in the value of the respective obligations. Assumption changes could affect the reported funded status of Hospiras plans and, as a result, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on Hospiras financial position and results of operations. Income taxes can have an unpredictable effect on Hospiras results of operations and result in greater than anticipated liabilities. Hospira is subject to income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions, and its tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. Because Hospiras income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions during that period, which is inherently uncertain, its income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted. Moreover, changes in or interpretations of tax laws and regulations (including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings), changes in investments in foreign countries with favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state and foreign tax audits, may affect Hospiras profitability and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Hospira is the beneficiary of tax exemptions in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S., where a portion of its income is earned. These tax exemptions have a significant impact on reducing Hospiras overall effective tax rate. If Hospira is unable to maintain these tax exemptions, Hospiras future profitability may be reduced. Changes in laws or governmental policies can affect the availability of these exemptions. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, positions taken by Hospira are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Although Hospira believes its tax provisions and related liability balances are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect its financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. The stock market can be volatile and fluctuations in Hospiras operating results, as well as other factors, could cause its stock price to decline. During the past few years, the stock market has experienced fluctuations, which has significantly impacted the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Market fluctuations could adversely affect Hospiras stock price. Moreover, Hospiras sales and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter due to the risk factors set forth herein. Hospiras stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to its quarterly results and the impact of these risk factors on Hospiras operating results or financial position.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.  Item 2. Properties Manufacturing and R&D. Hospiras corporate headquarters and the locations and uses of Hospiras principal manufacturing and research and development ("R&D") properties as of December 31, 2011, are as follows: Location* Primary Use Owned/Leased Adelaide, South Australia, Australia R&D Owned Austin, Texas Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned Buffalo, New York Device Manufacturing Owned Boulder, Colorado Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient Manufacturing and R&D Leased (expires 2016) Clayton, North Carolina Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned Finisklin, Sligo, Ireland Device Manufacturing Leased (expires 2013) Irungattukottai, India** Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned/Leased (expires 2102) La Aurora, Costa Rica Device Manufacturing Owned Lake Forest, Illinois** Corporate Headquarters and R&D Owned/Leased (expires 2016) Liscate, Italy Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned McPherson, Kansas Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned Mulgrave, Victoria, Australia Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned Rocky Mount, North Carolina Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned San Cristobal, Dominican Republic** Device Manufacturing Owned/Leased (expires 2013) San Diego, California R&D Leased (expires 2019) *The locations listed above generally support all of Hospiras segments. **The Irungattukottai, India, San Cristobal, Dominican Republic and Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S. locations include both owned and leased facilities. 29  Table of Contents Certain of Hospiras regional headquarters are leased properties, which are located in Royal Leamington Spa, United Kingdom, for Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Melbourne, Australia, for Asia Pacific ("APAC"). Hospira has an unconsolidated joint venture with Cadila Healthcare Limited ("Cadila"), a pharmaceutical company located in Ahmedabad, Gujarat State, India. The joint venture, Zydus Hospira Oncology Private Limited ("ZHOPL") operates a manufacturing facility in a special economic zone outside of Ahmedabad, India, that has been inspected and approved by the United Kingdoms Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and the FDA. Under the joint venture agreement, the facility manufactures a number of cytotoxic drugs for sale by both Hospira and Cadila in their respective territories with Hospira holding exclusive rights in almost all major markets including the United States, Canada, the European Union and other western European countries, the Middle East, and countries within the Asia Pacific region. Distribution. Hospira also owns and operates distribution facilities in the U.S. located in Stone Mountain, Georgia; Farmers Branch, Texas; King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; and Santa Fe Springs, California. Hospira also leases and operates distribution facilities at Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin and Wallington, United Kingdom. Hospira continually evaluates its plants and production lines and believes that its current facilities, plus any planned expansions and modernization initiatives, will be generally sufficient to meet its expected needs. In 2011, to ensure Hospiras manufacturing capacity aligns with expected future commercial growth and demand, Hospira began expansion in Vizag, India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity utilizing long term land leases acquired in 2010. Hospira anticipates that the first commercial products will be released from this facility in 2014. Further, Hospira expects higher capital expenditures related to modernization and streamlining at its existing facilities over the next few years.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information on our legal proceedings is included in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," in this Form 10 K.  Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable Executive Officers of Hospira The executive officers of Hospira are set forth below. Their ages as of February 14, 2012, and the positions and offices held by them during the past five years are also indicated. There are no family relationships between any corporate officers or directors. All executive officers hold office until the next annual election of officers and until their respective successors are elected and qualified, unless sooner removed. F. Michael Ball, age 56, joined Hospira as its Chief Executive Officer and as a director on March 28, 2011. Mr. Ball joined Hospira after a 16 year career at Allergan, Inc., a multi specialty healthcare company, where he held several senior leadership positions. For the five years prior to joining Hospira, Mr. Ball served as President of Allergan. Mr. Ball also serves on the board of directors of STEC, Inc., a publicly traded manufacturer and marketer of computer memory and hard drive storage solutions. Richard Davies, age 50, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer, effective February 2, 2012. From August 2011 to February 2012, Mr. Davies served as Vice President and General Manager, Japan and Asia Pacific at Amgen (a developer and manufacturer of human 30 Table of Contents therapeutics). During the past five years, Mr. Davies also held the following positions at Amgen: Vice President and General Manager, Asia and Latin America (November 2010 to August 2011), Vice President, Sales Inflammation Business Unit (January 2009 to November 2010), and General Manager, Australia (throughout 2007 and 2008). Francois (Frans) L. Dubois, age 58, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Quality. Mr. Dubois has served in that position since January 2011. Mr. Dubois served as the Vice President of Quality for Tengion, Inc. (a regenerative medicine company) from 2009 to 2010. From 2008 to 2009, Mr. Dubois was Vice President of Global External Manufacturing and Supplier Quality Operations at Global Pharmaceutical Supply Group (a fully owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, a global pharmaceutical, medical device and consumer packaged goods manufacturer). During 2007 and 2008, Mr. Dubois was Vice President, Worldwide Quality at Global Biologics Supply Chain (a fully owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson). James H. Hardy, Jr., age 52, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Operations. Mr. Hardy has served in that position since January 2011. Mr. Hardy was Hospiras Corporate Vice President, Supply Chain, from 2009 to 2010. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Hardy served as the Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, at Dial Corporation (a maker of personal care and household cleaning products). Also in 2007, he served as the Executive Vice President, Product Supply at ConAgra Foods, Inc. (a packaged foods company). Daphne E. Jones, age 54, is Hospiras Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Ms. Jones has served in that position since November 2009. Ms. Jones served as the Worldwide Vice President of Information Technology ("IT") and Chief Information Officer for Johnson & Johnsons Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (a Johnson & Johnson company that provides solutions for screening, diagnosing, monitoring and confirming diseases early) from 2007 to 2009. Kenneth F. Meyers, age 50, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Organizational Transformation and People Development. Mr. Meyers has served in that position since November 2008. In 2007 and 2008, Mr. Meyers served as a partner of Oliver Wyman Delta Executive Learning Center (a global management consulting firm). Sumant Ramachandra, M.D., Ph.D., age 43, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Medical and Regulatory Affairs and Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Ramachandra has served in that position since July 2008. Dr. Ramachandra served as Vice President and Senior Project Leader, Global Development, at Schering Plough, a global healthcare company, in 2007 and 2008. Brian J. Smith, age 60, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He has served in that position during the past five years. Thomas E. Werner, age 54, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. He has served in that position during the past five years. Richard J. Hoffman, age 45, is Hospiras Corporate Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. He has served in such position since August 2009. From August 2007 to August 2009, he served as Hospiras Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Also, in 2007, Mr. Hoffman served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at CNH Global N.V. (Case New Holland a global agricultural and construction equipment manufacturer). 31  Table of Contents  PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Common Stock Hospiras common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "HSP." The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for Hospiras common stock on the NYSE for each period indicated. Market Price Per Share 2011 2010 For the quarter ended: High Low High Low March 31 $ 56.80 $ 51.05 $ 57.38 $ 48.56 June 30 $ 58.13 $ 53.74 $ 57.97 $ 50.11 September 30 $ 55.67 $ 34.44 $ 59.75 $ 50.26 December 31 $ 38.76 $ 27.29 $ 59.65 $ 54.83 As of February 8, 2012, Hospira had approximately 29,954 shareholders of record. Hospira has not paid any dividends on its common stock. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Hospira of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(1)(2) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(2) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(2) October 1 October 31, 2011 1,600 $ 30.10 $ 800,000,000 November 1 November 30, 2011 3,000 31.14 800,000,000 December 1 December 31, 2011 3,000 29.28 800,000,000 Total 7,600 $ 30.19 $ 800,000,000 (1)In addition to the shares purchased as part of the publicly announced Plan, these shares represent the shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Hospira Healthcare Corporation ("Hospira Canada") Stock Purchase Plan 1,600 in October, 3,000 in both November and December. (2)In April 2011, Hospiras Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of Hospiras common stock. In April and May 2011, Hospira entered into accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") contracts with a third party financial institution to repurchase $200.0 million in aggregate of Hospiras common stock. Under the ASR contracts, Hospira received 3.7 million shares. Hospira from time to time may repurchase additional shares under this authorization the timing of which will depend on various factors such as cash generation from operations, cash expenditures required for other purposes, current stock price and other factors. 32 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares the performance of Hospira common stock for the periods indicated with the performance of the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Health Care Index.  Comparison of Cumulative Total Return Assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2006 in Hospira common stock and each index. Values are as of the close of the U.S. stock markets on December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and assume dividends are reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared or paid on Hospira common stock. Returns over the indicated period may not be indicative of future returns. 33 Table of Contents  Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following tables set forth Hospiras selected financial information derived from its audited consolidated financial statements as of, and for the years ended, December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007. The selected financial information should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Hospiras audited financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." For the Years Ended December 31, (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 4,057.1 $ 3,917.2 $ 3,879.3 $ 3,629.5 $ 3,436.2 Gross profit(1) 1,397.6 1,514.4 1,456.4 1,342.7 1,195.7 Income from operations(2)(3) 56.8 519.2 502.9 517.8 302.6 (Loss) Income before income taxes(2)(3) (27.1 ) 379.3 384.1 407.5 187.8 Net (Loss) Income(2)(3)(4) $ (9.4 ) $ 357.2 $ 403.9 $ 320.9 $ 136.8 (Loss) Earnings per common share: Basic $ (0.06 ) $ 2.15 $ 2.51 $ 2.02 $ 0.87 Diluted $ (0.06 ) $ 2.11 $ 2.47 $ 1.99 $ 0.85 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 165.5 166.0 161.0 159.2 156.9 Diluted 165.5 169.5 163.2 161.3 160.2 (1)Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. (2)Amounts include goodwill impairment charges of $400.2 million in 2011. (3)Amounts include acquired in process research and development charges of $0.5 million and $88.0 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4)Amounts include Equity income from affiliates of $45.6 million and $12.2 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Equity income from affiliates was not significant for years prior to 2010. Additionally, amounts include discrete income tax benefits of $19.7 million and $91.9 million in 2011 and 2009, respectively, due to Internal Revenue Service audit settlements. December 31, (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 5,779.1 $ 6,046.3 $ 5,502.9 $ 5,074.1 $ 5,084.7 Long term debt $ 1,711.9 $ 1,714.4 $ 1,707.3 $ 1,834.0 $ 2,184.4 34  Table of Contents  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies that develops, manufactures, distributes and markets products. Through a broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance WellnessTM by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. Hospiras portfolio includes generic acute care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management products. Hospiras portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home health care providers and long term care facilities. Product Development and Product Launches Hospiras product development programs are concentrated in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management. Hospira manages these product development programs and related costs through the following four categories: generic pharmaceuticals, biosimilars, proprietary pharmaceuticals and device products. For further information about these categories see the section captioned "Product Development" in "Item I. Business" and for information related to certain of Hospiras collaborative agreements for biosimilars and proprietary pharmaceuticals see Note 4 to the financial statements in "
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Hospira continues to make improvements to our products to further reduce patient safety issues. Based upon our consultations with the FDA and other regulatory authorities, these improvements may require Hospira to initiate recalls or corrective actions if the improvement reduces the health risk posed by the product and not making the improvements to the on market product is deemed a patient safety issue. See discussion regarding corrective actions to Hospiras pumps under the sections captioned "Quality Assurance" in this Item 1. and "Certain Quality and Product Related Matters" in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Hospiras sales and marketing activities for its products are also highly regulated. Regulatory authorities have the power to mandate the discontinuation of promotional materials, practices and programs that include information beyond the scope of the indications in the approved or cleared labeling or that are not in compliance with specific regulatory requirements. Some of Hospiras drug products are considered controlled substances and are subject to additional regulation by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") and various state and international authorities. These drugs, which have varying degrees of potential for abuse, require specialized controls for production, storage and distribution to prevent theft and diversion. Hospira continues investing in the development of generic and or similar versions of currently marketed biopharmaceuticals. Since 2005, the European Medicines Agency has implemented guidelines which provided a pathway for the approval of certain biosimilars in the European Union. In 2010, the "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act" ("PPACA") was passed and signed into law in the U.S. This legislation includes new authorization for the FDA to approve companies to market these products in the U.S. In addition, other provisions, such as the medical device excise tax of the PPACA, are not considered to have a significant impact on Hospira in the future. In early 2012, the FDA recently issued three draft guidance documents regarding biosimiliars, and Hospira is in the process of analyzing these guidelines. Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws As a manufacturer and distributor of prescription drugs and medical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers, Hospira and its customers are subject to laws which apply to Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs in the U.S. One such law, the Anti kickback Statute, prohibits the solicitation, offer, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for referral or purchase, or in return for the recommending or arranging for the referral or purchase, of products covered by the programs. The Anti kickback Statute provides a number of exceptions or "safe harbors" 13 Table of Contents for particular types of transactions. While Hospira generally does not file claims for reimbursement from government payers, the U.S. federal government has asserted theories of liability against manufacturers under the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false claims to Medicare, Medicaid, and other state and federal programs. Many states have similar fraud and abuse laws which apply to Hospira. Anti bribery Laws Hospiras global activities are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("U.S. FCPA") the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and other countries anti bribery laws that have been enacted in support of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Developments Anti bribery Convention. These laws prohibit companies and individuals from offering or providing anything of value to government officials with the intent of inappropriately gaining a business advantage. They also require companies to maintain accurate books and records and internal financial controls. The U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 also prohibits commercial bribery and makes it a crime for a company to fail to prevent bribery. Companies have the burden of proving that they have adequate procedures in place to prevent bribery. The enforcement of such laws in the U.S. and elsewhere has increased dramatically in the past few years, and authorities have indicated that the pharmaceutical and medical device industry will be a significant focus for enforcement efforts. Hospira has a compliance program in place to ensure compliance with these laws by its employees and agents and to communicate its expectations of compliance to third parties, including its distributors. Environmental Laws Hospiras manufacturing operations are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state agencies administer laws which restrict the emission of pollutants into the air, the discharge of pollutants into bodies of water and the disposal of hazardous substances. The failure to obtain a permit for certain activities may be a violation of environmental laws. Most environmental agencies also have the power to shut down an operation if it is operating in violation of environmental laws. U.S. laws also allow citizens to bring private enforcement actions in some situations. Outside the U.S., the environmental laws and their enforcement vary, and can be more burdensome. For example, in some European countries, there are environmental taxes and laws requiring manufacturers to take back used products at the end of their useful life. This does not currently have a significant impact on Hospiras products, but such laws are expanding rapidly in Europe. Hospira has management systems in place that are intended to minimize the potential for violation of these laws. Other environmental laws address the contamination of land and groundwater, and require the clean up of such contamination. Hospira has been involved with a number of sites at which clean up has been required, some as the sole owner and responsible party, and some as a contributor in conjunction with other parties. Although Hospira continues to make capital expenditures for environmental protection, Hospira does not anticipate any significant expenditure in order to comply with such laws and regulations that would have a material impact on our operations, results or competitive position. State Laws There are numerous requirements imposed by individual states in the U.S. on pharmaceutical and medical device companies doing business in those states. For example, several states and the District of Columbia either require the tracking and reporting of specific types of interactions with healthcare professionals or restrict such interactions. A similar requirement arose under the PPACA to track spending on physicians and teaching institutions. The effective date of this reporting requirement has been postponed, but is expected to preempt some but not all of the state disclosure requirements. Other countries, including the U.K and France, are adopting similar reporting requirements. 14 Table of Contents Other Laws Hospira is also subject to a variety of other laws, directives and regulations in and outside of the U.S., including those related to the following: the safety and health laws of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, which sets forth requirements for conditions of the workplace; the laws administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation and similar foreign agencies related to transporting materials defined as "hazardous" over land , sea, or through the air; and the customs, export and anti boycott laws of the U.S. and foreign government agencies, including the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Department of Commerce and the Office of Foreign Assets Control Treasury Department, as well as others. Hospira uses reasonable care to stay abreast of, and plans for, proposed legislation that could significantly affect our operations. Available Information Copies of Hospiras Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Hospira electronically files or furnishes such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Hospiras corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and the charters of its audit, compensation, governance and public policy, and science, technology and quality committees are all available in the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) or by sending a request to: Corporate Governance Materials Request, Hospira General Counsel and Secretary, Hospira, Inc., 275 North Field Drive, Dept. NLEG, Bldg. H1, Lake Forest, Illinois 60045. Hospira also routinely posts important information for investors on its Web site (www.hospira.com) in its Investor Relations section. Hospira may use this Web site as a means of disclosing material, non public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of Hospiras Web site, in addition to following Hospiras press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Information contained on Hospiras Web site shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10 K.  Item 1A. Risk Factors Hospiras business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. These risks and uncertainties may cause (1) Hospiras sales and results of operations to fluctuate significantly; (2) Hospiras past performance to not be indicative of future performance; and (3) Hospiras actual performance to differ materially from Hospiras expectations or projections. The risks described below may not be the only risks Hospira faces. Additional risks that Hospira does not yet know of or that Hospira currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations. This Form 10 K also contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Hospiras results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below. See the section captioned "Forward Looking Statements" in the section preceding Part 1. 15 Table of Contents Hospira faces significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Hospira competes with many companies that range from small, highly focused companies to large diversified healthcare manufacturers that have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. There has been consolidation by Hospiras competitors and customer base, which has resulted in pricing and sales pressures, causing competition to become more intense. Hospiras present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by competitors or by the introduction of competing products by one or more of its competitors. To remain competitive and bolster its competitive position, Hospira believes that it must successfully execute various strategic plans, including expanding its research and development initiatives and productivity, lowering its operating costs, and improving its quality and business processes. These initiatives may result in significant expenditures and ultimately may not be successful. Hospiras failure to compete effectively could cause it to lose market share to its competitors and have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. If Hospira does not successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, its sales and operating results may decline. A key component to Hospiras strategy is effective execution of its research and development activities. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, Hospiras products may become obsolete over time, causing its sales and operating results to suffer. If Hospira does not continue to develop generic injectable pharmaceuticals in a timely manner, its competitors may develop products that are more competitive than Hospiras, and Hospira could find it more difficult to renew or expand GPO pricing agreements or to obtain new agreements. The ability to launch a generic pharmaceutical product at or before generic market formation is important to that products profitability. Prices for generic products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following market formation, as additional companies receive approvals to market that product and competition intensifies. If a company can be "first to market," such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved. With increasing competition in the generic product market, the timeliness with which Hospira can market new generic products will increase in importance. If Hospira is unable to bring its generic products to market on a timely basis, and secure "first to market" positions, its sales and profitability could be adversely impacted. Hospira is also actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products. Hospira has entered into an agreement described under "Item 1. Product Development" related to expanding its biosimilars portfolio and capabilities. The success of our biosimilars activities depends on several factors, including among other factors, the adoption of certain laws and regulations, ability to obtain regulatory approvals, and the success of the arrangements with third parties. These activities will require a substantial investment of the companys resources, which may not result in commercially successful products. In 2010, the Patient Protection Affordable Care Act was passed and signed into law in the U.S. This legislation includes new authorization to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") to approve companies to market biosimilar products in the U.S. In early 2012, the FDA recently issued three draft guidance documents regarding biosimiliars, and Hospira is in the process of analyzing these guidelines. Hospira may not be able to generate future sales of such products in certain jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of its investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for product candidates could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs. Hospira faces similar risks if it does not introduce new versions or upgrades to its medication management portfolio. Innovations generally require a substantial investment in product development before Hospira can determine their commercial viability, and Hospira may not have the financial 16 Table of Contents resources necessary to fund these innovations. Even if Hospira succeeds in creating new product candidates from these innovations, such innovations may still fail to result in commercially successful products. For further information related to upgrades to Hospiras SymbiqTM pump and other medication management products, see the section captioned "Quality Assurance" in "Item 1. Business." The success of new product offerings will depend on several factors, including Hospiras ability to properly anticipate customer needs, obtain timely regulatory approvals, and manufacture quality products in an economic and timely manner. Even if Hospira is able to successfully develop new products or enhancements, we may not produce sales equal to or greater than the costs of development or may not avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Such products may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Moreover, innovations may not become successful because of difficulties encountered in achieving positive clinical outcomes, meeting safety, efficacy or other regulatory requirements of government agencies, or obtaining favorable pricing on such products. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, and uncertainty over third party reimbursement. Hospiras issues with its quality systems and processes could have an adverse effect upon Hospiras business, subject Hospira to further regulatory action and costly litigation, and cause a loss of confidence in Hospira and its products. Hospiras future operating results will depend on its ability to implement and improve its quality management program, and effectively train and manage its employee base with respect to quality management. During 2010 and 2011, Hospira has encountered several quality and product related issues referenced in an FDA Warning Letter and subsequent inspections related thereto and certain device remediation activities, including those related to SymbiqTM and PlumTM. Hospira has also committed to the FDA that it would engage in a comprehensive product review for each of Hospiras medication management products. For information related to all of these quality and product related matters, see the section captioned "Quality Assurance" in "Item 1. Business." For information related to the costs to remediate these matters, see the section captioned "Certain Quality and Product Related Matters" in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." While Hospira takes all of these matters seriously, Hospira cannot give any assurances as to the expected date of resolution of all of these matters. While Hospira continues to work to resolve the remaining matters, there can be no assurance that additional costs or penalties will not be incurred, and that additional regulatory actions with respect to Hospira will not occur. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that regulatory agencies or customers will be satisfied with Hospiras response and corrective actions. Until all of the matters are corrected, Hospira may be subject to additional regulatory actions by the FDA, including the withholding of approval of new drug applications, the imposition of a consent decree, product seizure, injunction, and or civil monetary penalties. In addition, new product approvals at all of Hospiras manufacturing facilities could be adversely impacted by these quality matters or any other adverse inspection results at Hospiras other facilities. Further, these quality issues could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in additional Form 483 observations, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, consent decrees, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal or a slowdown of governmental agencies to grant approvals and licenses, withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses, or other restrictions on operations. Hospiras inability to address quality or safety issues in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence, which may result in the loss of sales for existing and new products. All of these issues could erode investor confidence, which could cause further fluctuations in Hospiras stock price or changes to Hospiras credit rating, which could increase Hospiras cost of borrowing. 17 Table of Contents Furthermore, these matters, including the ship hold of Symbiq pumps, could result in the loss of market share for these products, changes to customer buying patterns, loss of customers, and failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements with GPOs. Due to the complexity and depth of these anticipated remediation activities, and dependent upon the schedules for remediation, and the outcomes from the product assessments, these matters have and may continue to adversely impact production, including causing further reduced production volumes, inventory accumulation and or inventory loss due to spoilage, excess, obsolescence or products failing to meet specifications. These quality matters have and may lead to further remediation actions, including recalls or other corrective actions or further adverse regulatory actions. Additionally, these quality matters have adversely impacted, and may impact further, Hospiras net sales and ability to market certain products in all segments. These matters have impacted, and may continue to further impact, Hospiras cash flows. This decrease in cash flows could limit Hospiras flexibility in pursuing its current strategic investments, including Hospiras capacity expansion initiatives in India, modernization efforts at existing facilities, biosimilar research and development programs, global product portfolio expansion efforts, or any other programs Hospira decides to pursue. Hospira may have to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to fund quality initiatives, thereby reducing the cash flow for these other initiatives. Hospira has experienced delays in product approvals at its facilities, and dependent upon the outcomes of these matters and potential further regulatory actions, further delays in, or denials of product approvals could continue to impact Hospira. These quality matters have resulted in, and may further result in, lower customer service levels and resulting higher customer backorders and penalties for failure to supply products. Failure to effectively manage efforts or to realize the benefits under product collaboration agreements may harm Hospiras business and profitability. Hospira collaborates with other companies for the development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of new products in both the specialty injectable pharmaceutical and medication management product lines. Hospira has entered into agreements relating to the long term development and commercialization of proprietary and biosimilar products, which Hospira views as an important long term opportunity for its specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line. For further information related to these agreements, see the section captioned "Product Development" in "Item 1. Business." Hospiras ability to benefit from these arrangements will depend on its ability to successfully manage these arrangements and the performance of the other parties to these arrangements. Hospira and the other parties to these arrangements may not efficiently work together, leading to higher than anticipated costs and delays in important activities under the arrangements. The other parties to these arrangements may not devote the resources that are required for the arrangement to be successful. These arrangements are often governed by complex agreements that may be subject to differing interpretations by the parties, which may result in disputes. The development of proprietary and biosimilar products may require substantial investment by Hospira, and involve a higher degree of risk. Hospira may not be able to realize the expected benefits of such investment. These factors are often beyond the control of Hospira, and could harm Hospiras sales, product development efforts and profitability. Hospira is subject to the cost containment efforts of wholesalers, distributors, third party payors and government organizations, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Hospira relies on drug wholesalers to assist in the distribution of its generic injectable pharmaceutical products. While Hospira has business arrangements in place with its major drug wholesalers, if Hospira is required to pay fees not contemplated by its existing arrangements, Hospira will incur additional costs to distribute its products, which may harm Hospiras profitability. 18  Table of Contents Hospiras products and services are sold to hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third party payors, such as government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. These third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement, if any, may be decreased in the future, and future healthcare reform legislation, regulations or changes to reimbursement policies of third party payors may otherwise adversely affect the demand for and price levels of Hospiras products, which could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales and profitability. In markets outside the U.S., Hospiras business has experienced downward pressure on product pricing as a result of the concentrated buying power of governments as principal customers and the use of bid and tender sales methods whereby Hospira is required to submit a bid for the sale of its products. Hospiras failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability in these markets. If Hospira is unable to obtain or maintain its GPO and IDN pricing agreements, sales of its products could decline. Many existing and potential customers for Hospiras products have combined to form GPOs, and IDNs in an effort to lower costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPOs or an IDNs affiliated hospitals and other members. A small number of GPOs influence a majority of sales to Hospiras hospital customers in the U.S. Failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements could cause Hospira to lose market share to its competitors and have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. The quality and related supply issues that have impacted Hospiras business over the last few years could adversely impact Hospiras ability to negotiate advantageous pricing or purchasing arrangements. Hospira has pricing agreements for certain products with the major GPOs in the U.S., including Amerinet, Inc.; HealthTrust Purchasing Group LP; MedAssets Supply Chain Systems, LLC; Novation, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. It is important for Hospira to continue to maintain pricing arrangements with major GPOs. In order to maintain these relationships, Hospira must offer a reliable supply of high quality, regulatory compliant products. Hospira also needs to maintain a broad product line and be price competitive. Several GPO contracts are up for renewal or extension each year. Moreover, some of the agreements may be terminated on 60 or 90 days notice, while others may not be terminated without breach until the end of their contracted term. If Hospira is unable to renew or extend one or more of those contracts, or one or more of the contracts are terminated, and Hospira cannot replace lost business, Hospiras sales and profitability will decline. There has been consolidation among major GPOs, and further consolidation may occur. The effect of consolidation is uncertain, and consolidation may impair Hospiras ability to contract with GPOs in the future. The GPOs also have a variety of business relationships with Hospiras competitors and may decide to enter into pricing agreements for, or otherwise prefer, products other than Hospiras. While GPOs negotiate incentives for members to purchase specified products from a given manufacturer or distributor, GPO pricing agreements allow customers to choose between the products covered by the arrangement and another manufacturers products, whether or not purchased under a negotiated pricing agreement. As a result, Hospira may face competition for its products even within the context of its GPO pricing agreements. 19 Table of Contents Changes in the buying patterns of Hospiras customers could adversely affect Hospiras operating results. During 2011, sales through the four largest U.S. wholesalers that supply products to many end users accounted for approximately 41% of Hospiras global net sales. Hospiras profitability may be impacted by changes in the buying patterns of these wholesalers, or any other major distributor, or wholesale customer. Their buying patterns may change as a result of end use buyer purchasing decisions, end use customer demand, pricing, or other factors, which could adversely affect Hospiras results of operations. Hospira and its suppliers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and it could be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to sanctions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Hospiras products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device, particularly from the FDA and governmental authorities outside the U.S., can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. To ensure ongoing customer safety, regulatory agencies such as the FDA may re evaluate their current approval processes and may impose additional requirements. In addition, the FDA and others may impose increased or enhanced regulatory inspections for domestic or foreign plants. The FDA, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug and medical device applications, which has delayed approvals of new products. Those delays have become longer, and may continue to increase in the future. These delays can result in higher levels of unapproved inventory and increased costs due to excess and obsolescence exposures. In addition, Hospira may incur additional costs in connection with new regulations covering user fees for generics, biosimilars or devices. Hospira and its collaborative partners and suppliers may not be able to remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other material regulatory requirements once it has obtained clearance or approval for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, off label marketing, advertising and postmarketing reporting, and adverse event reports and field alerts. In addition, manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off label uses or inadequate disclosure of product related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. Hospira and its partners or suppliers may be required by regulatory authorities, or determine on its own, to issue a safety alert, recall or temporarily cease production and sale of certain products to resolve manufacturing and product quality concerns. All of these events could harm Hospiras sales, margins and profitability in the affected periods and may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business. Hospira is also subject to various federal, state, and foreign laws pertaining to foreign corrupt practices and healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in national, federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs and health programs outside the U.S. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Hospira to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Hospiras business and result in a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales, profitability and financial condition. For a more detailed listing of the laws and regulations that significantly affect Hospiras business and operations, see the section captioned "Governmental Regulation and Other Matters" in "Item 1. 20 Table of Contents Business." Any adverse regulatory action, or action taken by Hospira to maintain appropriate regulatory compliance, with respect to these laws and regulations could disrupt Hospiras business and have a material adverse effect on its sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, an adverse regulatory action with respect to any Hospira product, operating procedure or manufacturing facility could materially harm Hospiras reputation in the marketplace. Proposed changes in FDA regulations or actions related to infusion pumps and medical devices may lead to increased costs and delays, which could negatively impact Hospiras business. In April 2010, the FDA issued a draft guidance document entitled "Total Product Life Cycle: Infusion Pump Premarket Notification [510(k)] Submissions." Through this draft guidance, the FDA has established additional pre market requirements for infusion pumps. The proposed guidance is subject to further revisions by the FDA, but the FDAs expectation is that the guidelines should be followed in the interim. At the same time, the FDA is also enhancing its pre market requirements for medical devices generally. Although Hospira cannot predict with certainty the future impact of these initiatives, it appears that the process for obtaining regulatory approvals to market infusion pumps and medical devices will become more costly and time consuming. In addition, the new requirements could result in longer delays for the approval of new products as well as remediation of existing products in the market. Future delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals could result in delayed or no realization of product revenues. Hospira may continue to acquire businesses and assets, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, form alliances, or dispose of businesses and assets, and any of these actions may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, or at all. As part of Hospiras business strategy, Hospira may continue to acquire other businesses and assets, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, form alliances, or dispose of businesses and assets, and any of these actions may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, or at all. Hospira also may pursue strategic alliances to expand its product offerings and geographic presence. Moreover, Hospira has entered into agreements with other companies to share in the manufacturing and development of certain biosimilar candidates. Hospira may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement, strategic alliance, or disposition. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with Hospira for opportunities. If Hospira is successful in securing certain opportunities, the products and technologies that Hospira acquires may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Hospira may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business. To finance acquisitions or other investments, Hospira has incurred, and may continue to incur or assume significant debt. This significant indebtedness may require Hospira to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to servicing its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments, and for general corporate purposes. In addition, this significant indebtedness may increase Hospiras vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates. In addition, this may limit Hospiras flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to its business and industry. Hospira may incur greater than expected costs in connection with these transactions if it encounters difficulties or issues not known to it at the time of entering into the transaction. In addition, Hospira may enter markets in which it has no or limited prior experience. Hospira could experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition related charges. Any of these negative effects could cause a downgrade of Hospiras credit rating, which would affect Hospiras ability to obtain new financing and negatively impact Hospiras cost of financing and credit. 21 Table of Contents The Company is increasingly dependent on its outsourcing and third party provider arrangements. Hospira is increasing its dependence on third party providers for certain services, including certain information technology, research and development, third party manufacturing, and finance and accounting outsourcing arrangements. The failure of these service providers to meet their obligations or the development of significant disagreements or other factors may materially disrupt Hospiras ongoing relationship with these providers or the services they provide, which could negatively affect operations. Challenging economic or business conditions could adversely affect our operations. The securities and credit markets have experienced volatility in the past, and in some cases, exerted negative pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain companies. Hospiras ability to access the credit and capital markets, and the related cost of borrowings, will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, the availability of credit and the strength of Hospiras credit rating. If Hospiras credit rating were to be downgraded for any reason, including the reasons described in this "Item 1A. Risk Factors," Hospiras cost of borrowing could increase, and Hospiras ability to obtain new financing could be negatively impacted. Lending institutions, including those associated with Hospiras $1.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in 2016, may suffer losses due to their lending and other financial relationships. As a result, lenders may become insolvent, which could affect the actual availability of credit under Hospiras revolving credit facility, or Hospiras ability to obtain other financing on equally favorable terms. Moreover, insurance companies and other financial institutions may suffer losses, which could affect the cost and availability of insurance coverage. If one or more of these events occurred, Hospiras liquidity may prove to be insufficient, cost of borrowing may increase and Hospiras financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Demand for Hospiras products may decrease due to adverse economic conditions, resulting in the loss of jobs or healthcare coverage, thereby affecting an individuals ability to pay for elective healthcare. Adverse economic conditions may also increase Hospiras customers cost containment efforts, and affect Hospiras customers solvency or their ability to obtain credit to finance their purchases of Hospiras products, which could reduce Hospiras revenue and cause a decrease in Hospiras profitability. These economic conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products. Acquisitions have increased Hospiras investment balances, intangible assets and goodwill balances, and a decline in the value of assets may adversely affect Hospiras financial position or results of operation. As a result of Hospiras acquisitions, intangible assets and goodwill have become significant. The values for these assets can be affected by factors, such as increased competition, development discontinuation, delay in regulatory approval, product quality, changes in business strategies, decline in stock price, and the impact of restructurings, disposition transactions, and business combinations. As a result of these factors or other events, Hospira has impaired goodwill and certain intangible assets and may further have to impair these assets or change estimated useful lives, which may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras financial position or results of operations. In addition, Hospira regularly reviews its investments, including equity and cost based investments, to determine when a significant event or change in circumstance has occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value of each investment. Hospira considers numerous factors, including factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry of the investee, and general equity market trends. Hospira also considers the length of time an investments market value has been below carrying value and the near term prospects for recovery to carrying value. Volatility in the global equity markets and other factors could adversely impact the fair value of Hospiras investments and, as a consequence, 22 Table of Contents could result in a charge for an other than temporary decline in value, which could have an adverse effect on Hospiras financial position and results of operations. The manufacture of Hospiras products is highly exacting and complex, and if Hospira or its suppliers encounter problems manufacturing, storing or distributing products, Hospiras business could suffer. The manufacture of Hospiras products and products Hospira produces for third parties is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements governing the manufacture of drugs and medical devices. Problems may arise during manufacturing, quality control, storage or distribution of Hospiras products and products Hospira manufactures for third parties for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, manufacturing quality concerns, or problems with raw materials, electromechanical, software and other components, supplier issues, and natural disaster related events or other environmental factors. If problems arise during the production, storage or distribution of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. Problems could also lead to increased costs, lost sales, damage to customer relations, failure to supply penalties, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, voluntary recalls, corrective actions or product liability related costs may also be incurred. Problems with respect to the manufacture, storage or distribution of its products could materially disrupt Hospiras business and harm its sales and profitability. Certain of Hospiras products are produced at a single manufacturing facility, and we face risks inherent in manufacturing our products at a single facility or a single site. Any disruption would likely lead to substantial production delays. If this occurs, we may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. During 2010 and 2011, Hospira temporarily shut down certain of its production lines or slowed the release of certain products to respond to certain quality issues, as described in the section captioned "Manufacturing" in "Item 1 Business." Such disruptions have adversely impacted, and continue to adversely impact, Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. If Hospira experiences any further significant interruptions of manufacturing or further slow down in the release of products at any of its facilities, such an interruption could further materially and adversely affect Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. Hospira can experience higher costs to produce its products as a result of rising commodity prices. Hospira uses commodities, such as platinum, resins and other petroleum based materials as raw materials in many of its products. Prices of oil, fuel, and other gases also significantly affect Hospiras costs for freight and utilities. Platinum, oil, fuel, and other gas prices are volatile. If costs increase and Hospira is unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions or hedging activities, Hospira could experience lower margins and profitability. Hospira depends on third parties to supply raw materials and other components, and third party finished goods. Hospira may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which could limit Hospiras ability to manufacture or sell products on a timely basis and could harm its profitability. The manufacture of Hospiras products requires raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient and electromechanical and other components that must meet stringent FDA and other regulatory requirements. While efforts are made to diversify our sources of materials and components, some of these raw materials and other components are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, Hospira relies on certain proprietary components available exclusively from ICU Medical and active pharmaceutical ingredients from Orchid Chemical. For a more detailed description of those relationships, see the section captioned "Raw Materials and Components" in "Item 1. Business." 23 Table of Contents In addition, Hospira purchases from single sources certain compounding materials, polyvinyl chloride resin and laminate film components for Hospiras production of certain flexible bags that it uses with its I.V. and pre mixed solutions, as well as rubber components that it uses with some of its injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira also obtains from single sources certain active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. Identifying alternative suppliers and obtaining approval to change or substitute a raw material or component, or the supplier of a finished product, raw material or component, can be time consuming and expensive, as testing, validation and regulatory approval are necessary. While we work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In the past, Hospiras business has experienced shortages in some of the raw materials and components of its products. Continuous supply of petroleum based products is especially risky due to the limited number of capable suppliers, limited production capacity and the effect of natural disasters. If suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or if supply is otherwise disrupted, including by suppliers exiting the market, the manufacture and sale of Hospiras products may be disrupted, and its sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Hospiras continuous improvement activities have resulted, and may continue to result, in significant charges and cash expenditures. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended improvement or cost savings. Hospiras strategy, in part, has been to improve margins and cash flow to drive sustained growth. In addition to cost reduction initiatives, Hospira has taken various other actions to dispose of, or close, certain manufacturing, research and development, and other facilities. These actions have resulted in significant charges to Hospiras results of operations and cash expenditures. Hospira aims to achieve a culture of continuous improvement that will enhance its efficiency, effectiveness, and competitiveness and substantially improve its cost base. Continuous improvement activities could result in additional charges and cash expenditures, including capital expenditures and charges associated with Hospiras expansion in India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity. Furthermore, Hospira expects higher capital expenditures related to modernizing and streamlining its existing facilities. If Hospira does not realize the expected savings from its continuous improvement efforts, its profitability may be adversely affected. Cost reduction and continuous improvement activities are complex, and if Hospira does not successfully manage these activities, its operations and business could be disrupted and Hospira may incur more costs than anticipated. In connection with these activities, the companys failure to hire or retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that are critical to its business functions could adversely impact the execution of its business strategy. Hospiras manufacturing capacity could limit its ability to expand its business without significant capital investment. From time to time, Hospira may need to invest substantial capital resources to expand its manufacturing capacity if Hospira introduces new products, demand increases significantly for its products, or if it is successful in obtaining significant additional customers for its injectable pharmaceuticals contract manufacturing services business. In 2011, to ensure Hospiras manufacturing capacity aligns with expected future commercial growth and demand, Hospira began expansion in India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity. Hospira anticipates that the first commercial products will be released from this facility in 2014. Further, Hospira is taking steps over the next few years to prepare for facility modernization and streamlining at its existing manufacturing facilities. These 24 Table of Contents expansion and modernization efforts may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all, and Hospira may not realize the desired benefits of these efforts. As a result of cost reduction efforts over the last few years, Hospira has announced the closing of, or has sold, certain of its facilities. While Hospira believes it has available manufacturing capacity to absorb, or has had the ability to outsource, the production at these closed or sold facilities, there may be less available capacity at Hospiras facilities. If Hospira experiences an interruption in manufacturing at any of its primary manufacturing facilities, it may not be able to produce sufficient products for its customers. In some cases, the manufacturing of Hospiras products is concentrated in one or a few locations. Any significant interruption in Hospiras ability to manufacture products over an extended duration may result in delays in Hospiras ability to resume production of affected products or to begin production of new products, which may adversely impact our ability to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis. As a result, Hospira may suffer loss of market share, which may not be recaptured, and its reputation may be harmed, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Hospira experienced interruptions and a slow down in the release of products at certain of its manufacturing facilities for the reasons described in "Item 1. Quality Assurance." As a result, Hospiras sales, margins and profitability have been adversely impacted, and if further interruptions occur, Hospira may have further adverse impacts to its sales, margin and profitability. Hospira relies on the performance of its information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on Hospiras business and performance. Hospira operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure to manage our finances, and to manufacture, enable compliance and to market and sell our products. These systems are vulnerable to interruption or failure due to the age of certain of our systems, viruses, malware, security breaches, fire, power loss, system malfunction and other events, which may be beyond Hospiras control. Systems interruptions or failures could reduce Hospiras ability to manufacture its products or continue its business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras operations and financial performance. In addition, a cyber attack that bypasses our information technology security systems causing a security breach may lead to a material disruption of our information technology business systems and or the loss of business information resulting in an adverse business impact. The age of Hospiras information technology systems, as well as the level of Hospiras protection and business continuity or disaster recovery capability, varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. Hospiras capital investment levels in its information technology systems will increase over the next few years as Hospira expects to replace certain old, fully depreciated systems. Hospira conducts operations outside of the U.S. and is subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, that may cause its sales and profitability to decline. Sales in markets outside the U.S. comprised approximately 30% of 2011 net sales. Hospira anticipates that sales from outside the U.S. will continue to represent a significant portion of net sales. The additional risks associated with Hospiras operations outside the U.S. include: (i)fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (for a discussion of the ways and extent to which Hospira attempts to mitigate such risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."); (ii)multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change, which may delay or deter Hospiras international product commercialization efforts; 25 Table of Contents (iii)differing local medical practices, product preferences and product requirements, or changing government reimbursement practices; (iv)trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other controls or restrictions; (v)difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations outside the U.S.; (vi)differing labor regulations or work stoppages or strikes at Hospiras union facilities; (vii)complying with U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the U.S. FCPA, and anti boycott laws, and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010; (viii)loss of business through government tenders that are held annually in many cases; (ix)potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws, including legislative changes concerning taxation of income earned outside of the U.S.; (x)political and economic instability, including the European financial crisis or other economic instability in other parts of the world and the impact on Hospiras receivables; (xi)disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic area, due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers, caused by natural or man made disasters or other causes; and (xii)diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S. In addition, Hospira operates in many countries outside the U.S. through distributors. Its success will depend on the efforts and performance of such distributors, which are beyond Hospiras control. While Hospira has programs in place to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations impacting Hospira and its distributors, if it were determined that a distributor was not in compliance with certain laws and regulations, Hospira could be subject to civil and or criminal liability and other material adverse effects. Moreover, if certain of those distributor relationships are unsuccessful, the costs to terminate such distributor relationship and or to re establish a customer base could adversely affect Hospiras profitability in certain regions. These risks could have an adverse effect on Hospiras ability to distribute and sell its products in markets outside the U.S. and could adversely affect Hospiras profitability. Hospira is involved in various lawsuits and proceedings that could negatively affect its business. Hospira is involved in various claims and legal proceedings, as well as product liability claims and proceedings related to Hospiras business, including in some instances when Hospira operated as part of Abbott. In some instances, these claims and proceedings could preclude the continued sale and marketing of Hospiras products or otherwise adversely affect operations, profitability or liquidity. In addition, Hospira has been named as a defendant in class action lawsuits and shareholder derivative lawsuits. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" for more information regarding these lawsuits. These matters could have an adverse effect on Hospiras business, profitability or financial condition. In addition, there could be an increase in scope of these matters and there could be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future. In light of these uncertainties, we cannot assure that the outcome of these matters will not result in charges in excess of any established accruals. In the past, Hospira has been involved in investigations related to improper marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products. Hospira could be subject to these investigations or lawsuits again in the future, and these matters could have an adverse impact on Hospira. 26 Table of Contents Hospira may incur product liability losses and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. Hospiras business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of drugs, medical devices and other products. In the ordinary course of business, Hospira is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits, safety alerts, recalls or corrective actions, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Hospira is responsible for all liabilities, including liabilities for claims and lawsuits, related to its business, whether they arose before or after the spin off, other than certain liabilities relating to allegations that it engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices in connection with federal, state or private reimbursement for its products. As part of Hospiras risk management policy, Hospira carries third party product liability insurance coverage, which includes a substantial retention or deductible which provides that Hospira will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of that retention or deductible. To the extent that any losses are within these retentions or deductibles, Hospira will be responsible for the administration and payment of these losses. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. If Hospira is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its business and prospects could be harmed. Hospira relies on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, continuing technological innovation and, in some cases, patent, trademark and service mark protection to preserve its competitive position. A failure to protect Hospiras intellectual property could harm its business and prospects, and its efforts to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate. Principal products and their related trademarks are discussed in the section captioned "Products" in "Item 1. Business," and the patents related to PrecedexTM, which represents approximately 6% of Hospiras net sales and is licensed to Hospira in the Americas and APAC segments, and in the Middle East and Africa, are discussed in the section captioned "Patents, Trademarks, and other Intellectual Property" in "Item 1.Business" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." In the Americas, Precedex represents approximately 10% of specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line net sales. Most of Hospiras products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights, and have limited or no market exclusivity. Patent filings by third parties could render Hospiras intellectual property less valuable. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in certain countries outside the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also harm sales of Hospiras products by designing products that mirror the capabilities of those products or technology without infringing Hospiras intellectual property rights. If Hospira does not obtain or maintain sufficient protection for its intellectual property, Hospiras competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit its growth and future sales. If Hospira infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties, Hospira may face legal action, increased costs and delays in marketing new products. Hospira seeks to launch generic pharmaceutical products either where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid or where products do not infringe the patents of others. To achieve a "first to market" position for generic pharmaceutical products, Hospira may take action, such as litigation, to seek to assert that its products do not infringe 27 Table of Contents patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. These actions and litigation could be costly and time consuming, and may not be successful. Hospira has made certain abbreviated new drug applications ("ANDA") with Paragraph IV certifications that the relevant patents for existing products would not be infringed by a Hospira product, or were invalid or unenforceable, in the U.S. and equivalent filings in Canada. Claims filed by innovators contesting these certifications may delay or prevent the launch of the relevant products and result in additional costs. Hospira is currently involved in patent related disputes with companies over Hospiras attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products. Once Hospira has final approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals, Hospira may decide to commercially market these products while the ultimate disposition of legal proceedings has not concluded. For example in 2011, Hospira received final FDA approval in the U.S. and launched an oncolytic drug docetaxel (a generic version of Sanofi Aventis Taxotere&reg;) that is the subject of ongoing patent litigation. If Hospiras products are ultimately found to infringe the patent rights of another company, Hospira may be subject to significant damages, which may be based on a reasonable royalty or the lost profits from the sale of the branded product and or an injunction preventing Hospira from further sales. For further detail related to Hospiras patent related litigation, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Third parties may claim that Hospiras products are infringing their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could be costly and time consuming and might require Hospira to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, if Hospira is able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms. Hospira also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing it from manufacturing, selling or using some of its products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. Changes in the funded status or costs of Hospiras pension or post retirement benefit plans could adversely affect Hospiras financial position and results of operations. The funded status of Hospiras pension and post retirement benefit plans is subject to developments and changes in actuarial and other related assumptions. Decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly with respect to equity securities, and a change in the actual rate of return on plan assets can result in significant changes to the expected return on plan assets in the following year and, as a consequence, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. In addition, changes in assumptions, such as discount rates, mortality rates, healthcare cost trend rates and other factors, may lead to significant increases in the value of the respective obligations. Assumption changes could affect the reported funded status of Hospiras plans and, as a result, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on Hospiras financial position and results of operations. Income taxes can have an unpredictable effect on Hospiras results of operations and result in greater than anticipated liabilities. Hospira is subject to income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions, and its tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. Because Hospiras income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions during that period, which is inherently uncertain, its income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted. Moreover, changes in or interpretations of tax laws and regulations (including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings), changes in investments in foreign countries with favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state and foreign tax audits, may affect Hospiras profitability and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Hospira is the beneficiary of tax exemptions in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S., where a portion of its income is earned. These tax exemptions have a significant impact on reducing Hospiras overall effective tax rate. If Hospira is unable to maintain these tax exemptions, Hospiras future profitability may be reduced. Changes in laws or governmental policies can affect the availability of these exemptions. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, positions taken by Hospira are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Although Hospira believes its tax provisions and related liability balances are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect its financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. The stock market can be volatile and fluctuations in Hospiras operating results, as well as other factors, could cause its stock price to decline. During the past few years, the stock market has experienced fluctuations, which has significantly impacted the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Market fluctuations could adversely affect Hospiras stock price. Moreover, Hospiras sales and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter due to the risk factors set forth herein. Hospiras stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to its quarterly results and the impact of these risk factors on Hospiras operating results or financial position.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.  Item 2. Properties Manufacturing and R&D. Hospiras corporate headquarters and the locations and uses of Hospiras principal manufacturing and research and development ("R&D") properties as of December 31, 2011, are as follows: Location* Primary Use Owned/Leased Adelaide, South Australia, Australia R&D Owned Austin, Texas Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned Buffalo, New York Device Manufacturing Owned Boulder, Colorado Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient Manufacturing and R&D Leased (expires 2016) Clayton, North Carolina Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned Finisklin, Sligo, Ireland Device Manufacturing Leased (expires 2013) Irungattukottai, India** Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned/Leased (expires 2102) La Aurora, Costa Rica Device Manufacturing Owned Lake Forest, Illinois** Corporate Headquarters and R&D Owned/Leased (expires 2016) Liscate, Italy Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned McPherson, Kansas Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned Mulgrave, Victoria, Australia Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned Rocky Mount, North Carolina Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned San Cristobal, Dominican Republic** Device Manufacturing Owned/Leased (expires 2013) San Diego, California R&D Leased (expires 2019) *The locations listed above generally support all of Hospiras segments. **The Irungattukottai, India, San Cristobal, Dominican Republic and Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S. locations include both owned and leased facilities. 29  Table of Contents Certain of Hospiras regional headquarters are leased properties, which are located in Royal Leamington Spa, United Kingdom, for Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Melbourne, Australia, for Asia Pacific ("APAC"). Hospira has an unconsolidated joint venture with Cadila Healthcare Limited ("Cadila"), a pharmaceutical company located in Ahmedabad, Gujarat State, India. The joint venture, Zydus Hospira Oncology Private Limited ("ZHOPL") operates a manufacturing facility in a special economic zone outside of Ahmedabad, India, that has been inspected and approved by the United Kingdoms Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and the FDA. Under the joint venture agreement, the facility manufactures a number of cytotoxic drugs for sale by both Hospira and Cadila in their respective territories with Hospira holding exclusive rights in almost all major markets including the United States, Canada, the European Union and other western European countries, the Middle East, and countries within the Asia Pacific region. Distribution. Hospira also owns and operates distribution facilities in the U.S. located in Stone Mountain, Georgia; Farmers Branch, Texas; King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; and Santa Fe Springs, California. Hospira also leases and operates distribution facilities at Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin and Wallington, United Kingdom. Hospira continually evaluates its plants and production lines and believes that its current facilities, plus any planned expansions and modernization initiatives, will be generally sufficient to meet its expected needs. In 2011, to ensure Hospiras manufacturing capacity aligns with expected future commercial growth and demand, Hospira began expansion in Vizag, India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity utilizing long term land leases acquired in 2010. Hospira anticipates that the first commercial products will be released from this facility in 2014. Further, Hospira expects higher capital expenditures related to modernization and streamlining at its existing facilities over the next few years.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information on our legal proceedings is included in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," in this Form 10 K.  Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable Executive Officers of Hospira The executive officers of Hospira are set forth below. Their ages as of February 14, 2012, and the positions and offices held by them during the past five years are also indicated. There are no family relationships between any corporate officers or directors. All executive officers hold office until the next annual election of officers and until their respective successors are elected and qualified, unless sooner removed. F. Michael Ball, age 56, joined Hospira as its Chief Executive Officer and as a director on March 28, 2011. Mr. Ball joined Hospira after a 16 year career at Allergan, Inc., a multi specialty healthcare company, where he held several senior leadership positions. For the five years prior to joining Hospira, Mr. Ball served as President of Allergan. Mr. Ball also serves on the board of directors of STEC, Inc., a publicly traded manufacturer and marketer of computer memory and hard drive storage solutions. Richard Davies, age 50, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer, effective February 2, 2012. From August 2011 to February 2012, Mr. Davies served as Vice President and General Manager, Japan and Asia Pacific at Amgen (a developer and manufacturer of human 30 Table of Contents therapeutics). During the past five years, Mr. Davies also held the following positions at Amgen: Vice President and General Manager, Asia and Latin America (November 2010 to August 2011), Vice President, Sales Inflammation Business Unit (January 2009 to November 2010), and General Manager, Australia (throughout 2007 and 2008). Francois (Frans) L. Dubois, age 58, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Quality. Mr. Dubois has served in that position since January 2011. Mr. Dubois served as the Vice President of Quality for Tengion, Inc. (a regenerative medicine company) from 2009 to 2010. From 2008 to 2009, Mr. Dubois was Vice President of Global External Manufacturing and Supplier Quality Operations at Global Pharmaceutical Supply Group (a fully owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, a global pharmaceutical, medical device and consumer packaged goods manufacturer). During 2007 and 2008, Mr. Dubois was Vice President, Worldwide Quality at Global Biologics Supply Chain (a fully owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson). James H. Hardy, Jr., age 52, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Operations. Mr. Hardy has served in that position since January 2011. Mr. Hardy was Hospiras Corporate Vice President, Supply Chain, from 2009 to 2010. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Hardy served as the Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, at Dial Corporation (a maker of personal care and household cleaning products). Also in 2007, he served as the Executive Vice President, Product Supply at ConAgra Foods, Inc. (a packaged foods company). Daphne E. Jones, age 54, is Hospiras Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Ms. Jones has served in that position since November 2009. Ms. Jones served as the Worldwide Vice President of Information Technology ("IT") and Chief Information Officer for Johnson & Johnsons Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (a Johnson & Johnson company that provides solutions for screening, diagnosing, monitoring and confirming diseases early) from 2007 to 2009. Kenneth F. Meyers, age 50, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Organizational Transformation and People Development. Mr. Meyers has served in that position since November 2008. In 2007 and 2008, Mr. Meyers served as a partner of Oliver Wyman Delta Executive Learning Center (a global management consulting firm). Sumant Ramachandra, M.D., Ph.D., age 43, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Medical and Regulatory Affairs and Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Ramachandra has served in that position since July 2008. Dr. Ramachandra served as Vice President and Senior Project Leader, Global Development, at Schering Plough, a global healthcare company, in 2007 and 2008. Brian J. Smith, age 60, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He has served in that position during the past five years. Thomas E. Werner, age 54, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. He has served in that position during the past five years. Richard J. Hoffman, age 45, is Hospiras Corporate Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. He has served in such position since August 2009. From August 2007 to August 2009, he served as Hospiras Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Also, in 2007, Mr. Hoffman served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at CNH Global N.V. (Case New Holland a global agricultural and construction equipment manufacturer). 31  Table of Contents  PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Common Stock Hospiras common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "HSP." The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for Hospiras common stock on the NYSE for each period indicated. Market Price Per Share 2011 2010 For the quarter ended: High Low High Low March 31 $ 56.80 $ 51.05 $ 57.38 $ 48.56 June 30 $ 58.13 $ 53.74 $ 57.97 $ 50.11 September 30 $ 55.67 $ 34.44 $ 59.75 $ 50.26 December 31 $ 38.76 $ 27.29 $ 59.65 $ 54.83 As of February 8, 2012, Hospira had approximately 29,954 shareholders of record. Hospira has not paid any dividends on its common stock. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Hospira of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(1)(2) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(2) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(2) October 1 October 31, 2011 1,600 $ 30.10 $ 800,000,000 November 1 November 30, 2011 3,000 31.14 800,000,000 December 1 December 31, 2011 3,000 29.28 800,000,000 Total 7,600 $ 30.19 $ 800,000,000 (1)In addition to the shares purchased as part of the publicly announced Plan, these shares represent the shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Hospira Healthcare Corporation ("Hospira Canada") Stock Purchase Plan 1,600 in October, 3,000 in both November and December. (2)In April 2011, Hospiras Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of Hospiras common stock. In April and May 2011, Hospira entered into accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") contracts with a third party financial institution to repurchase $200.0 million in aggregate of Hospiras common stock. Under the ASR contracts, Hospira received 3.7 million shares. Hospira from time to time may repurchase additional shares under this authorization the timing of which will depend on various factors such as cash generation from operations, cash expenditures required for other purposes, current stock price and other factors. 32 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares the performance of Hospira common stock for the periods indicated with the performance of the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Health Care Index.  Comparison of Cumulative Total Return Assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2006 in Hospira common stock and each index. Values are as of the close of the U.S. stock markets on December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and assume dividends are reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared or paid on Hospira common stock. Returns over the indicated period may not be indicative of future returns. 33 Table of Contents  Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following tables set forth Hospiras selected financial information derived from its audited consolidated financial statements as of, and for the years ended, December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007. The selected financial information should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Hospiras audited financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." For the Years Ended December 31, (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 4,057.1 $ 3,917.2 $ 3,879.3 $ 3,629.5 $ 3,436.2 Gross profit(1) 1,397.6 1,514.4 1,456.4 1,342.7 1,195.7 Income from operations(2)(3) 56.8 519.2 502.9 517.8 302.6 (Loss) Income before income taxes(2)(3) (27.1 ) 379.3 384.1 407.5 187.8 Net (Loss) Income(2)(3)(4) $ (9.4 ) $ 357.2 $ 403.9 $ 320.9 $ 136.8 (Loss) Earnings per common share: Basic $ (0.06 ) $ 2.15 $ 2.51 $ 2.02 $ 0.87 Diluted $ (0.06 ) $ 2.11 $ 2.47 $ 1.99 $ 0.85 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 165.5 166.0 161.0 159.2 156.9 Diluted 165.5 169.5 163.2 161.3 160.2 (1)Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. (2)Amounts include goodwill impairment charges of $400.2 million in 2011. (3)Amounts include acquired in process research and development charges of $0.5 million and $88.0 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4)Amounts include Equity income from affiliates of $45.6 million and $12.2 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Equity income from affiliates was not significant for years prior to 2010. Additionally, amounts include discrete income tax benefits of $19.7 million and $91.9 million in 2011 and 2009, respectively, due to Internal Revenue Service audit settlements. December 31, (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 5,779.1 $ 6,046.3 $ 5,502.9 $ 5,074.1 $ 5,084.7 Long term debt $ 1,711.9 $ 1,714.4 $ 1,707.3 $ 1,834.0 $ 2,184.4 34  Table of Contents  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies that develops, manufactures, distributes and markets products. Through a broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance WellnessTM by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. Hospiras portfolio includes generic acute care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management products. Hospiras portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home health care providers and long term care facilities. Product Development and Product Launches Hospiras product development programs are concentrated in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management. Hospira manages these product development programs and related costs through the following four categories: generic pharmaceuticals, biosimilars, proprietary pharmaceuticals and device products. For further information about these categories see the section captioned "Product Development" in "Item I. Business" and for information related to certain of Hospiras collaborative agreements for biosimilars and proprietary pharmaceuticals see Note 4 to the financial statements in "
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Hospiras sales and marketing activities for its products are also highly regulated. Regulatory authorities have the power to mandate the discontinuation of promotional materials, practices and programs that include information beyond the scope of the indications in the approved or cleared labeling or that are not in compliance with specific regulatory requirements. Some of Hospiras drug products are considered controlled substances and are subject to additional regulation by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") and various state and international authorities. These drugs, which have varying degrees of potential for abuse, require specialized controls for production, storage and distribution to prevent theft and diversion. Hospira continues investing in the development of generic and or similar versions of currently marketed biopharmaceuticals. Since 2005, the European Medicines Agency has implemented guidelines which provided a pathway for the approval of certain biosimilars in the European Union. In 2010, the "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act" ("PPACA") was passed and signed into law in the U.S. This legislation includes new authorization for the FDA to approve companies to market these products in the U.S. In addition, other provisions, such as the medical device excise tax of the PPACA, are not considered to have a significant impact on Hospira in the future. In early 2012, the FDA recently issued three draft guidance documents regarding biosimiliars, and Hospira is in the process of analyzing these guidelines. Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws As a manufacturer and distributor of prescription drugs and medical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers, Hospira and its customers are subject to laws which apply to Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs in the U.S. One such law, the Anti kickback Statute, prohibits the solicitation, offer, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for referral or purchase, or in return for the recommending or arranging for the referral or purchase, of products covered by the programs. The Anti kickback Statute provides a number of exceptions or "safe harbors" 13 Table of Contents for particular types of transactions. While Hospira generally does not file claims for reimbursement from government payers, the U.S. federal government has asserted theories of liability against manufacturers under the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false claims to Medicare, Medicaid, and other state and federal programs. Many states have similar fraud and abuse laws which apply to Hospira. Anti bribery Laws Hospiras global activities are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("U.S. FCPA") the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and other countries anti bribery laws that have been enacted in support of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Developments Anti bribery Convention. These laws prohibit companies and individuals from offering or providing anything of value to government officials with the intent of inappropriately gaining a business advantage. They also require companies to maintain accurate books and records and internal financial controls. The U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 also prohibits commercial bribery and makes it a crime for a company to fail to prevent bribery. Companies have the burden of proving that they have adequate procedures in place to prevent bribery. The enforcement of such laws in the U.S. and elsewhere has increased dramatically in the past few years, and authorities have indicated that the pharmaceutical and medical device industry will be a significant focus for enforcement efforts. Hospira has a compliance program in place to ensure compliance with these laws by its employees and agents and to communicate its expectations of compliance to third parties, including its distributors. Environmental Laws Hospiras manufacturing operations are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state agencies administer laws which restrict the emission of pollutants into the air, the discharge of pollutants into bodies of water and the disposal of hazardous substances. The failure to obtain a permit for certain activities may be a violation of environmental laws. Most environmental agencies also have the power to shut down an operation if it is operating in violation of environmental laws. U.S. laws also allow citizens to bring private enforcement actions in some situations. Outside the U.S., the environmental laws and their enforcement vary, and can be more burdensome. For example, in some European countries, there are environmental taxes and laws requiring manufacturers to take back used products at the end of their useful life. This does not currently have a significant impact on Hospiras products, but such laws are expanding rapidly in Europe. Hospira has management systems in place that are intended to minimize the potential for violation of these laws. Other environmental laws address the contamination of land and groundwater, and require the clean up of such contamination. Hospira has been involved with a number of sites at which clean up has been required, some as the sole owner and responsible party, and some as a contributor in conjunction with other parties. Although Hospira continues to make capital expenditures for environmental protection, Hospira does not anticipate any significant expenditure in order to comply with such laws and regulations that would have a material impact on our operations, results or competitive position. State Laws There are numerous requirements imposed by individual states in the U.S. on pharmaceutical and medical device companies doing business in those states. For example, several states and the District of Columbia either require the tracking and reporting of specific types of interactions with healthcare professionals or restrict such interactions. A similar requirement arose under the PPACA to track spending on physicians and teaching institutions. The effective date of this reporting requirement has been postponed, but is expected to preempt some but not all of the state disclosure requirements. Other countries, including the U.K and France, are adopting similar reporting requirements. 14 Table of Contents Other Laws Hospira is also subject to a variety of other laws, directives and regulations in and outside of the U.S., including those related to the following: the safety and health laws of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, which sets forth requirements for conditions of the workplace; the laws administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation and similar foreign agencies related to transporting materials defined as "hazardous" over land , sea, or through the air; and the customs, export and anti boycott laws of the U.S. and foreign government agencies, including the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Department of Commerce and the Office of Foreign Assets Control Treasury Department, as well as others. Hospira uses reasonable care to stay abreast of, and plans for, proposed legislation that could significantly affect our operations. Available Information Copies of Hospiras Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after Hospira electronically files or furnishes such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Hospiras corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and the charters of its audit, compensation, governance and public policy, and science, technology and quality committees are all available in the Investor Relations section of Hospiras Web site (www.hospira.com) or by sending a request to: Corporate Governance Materials Request, Hospira General Counsel and Secretary, Hospira, Inc., 275 North Field Drive, Dept. NLEG, Bldg. H1, Lake Forest, Illinois 60045. Hospira also routinely posts important information for investors on its Web site (www.hospira.com) in its Investor Relations section. Hospira may use this Web site as a means of disclosing material, non public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of Hospiras Web site, in addition to following Hospiras press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Information contained on Hospiras Web site shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10 K.  Item 1A. Risk Factors Hospiras business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. These risks and uncertainties may cause (1) Hospiras sales and results of operations to fluctuate significantly; (2) Hospiras past performance to not be indicative of future performance; and (3) Hospiras actual performance to differ materially from Hospiras expectations or projections. The risks described below may not be the only risks Hospira faces. Additional risks that Hospira does not yet know of or that Hospira currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations. This Form 10 K also contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Hospiras results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below. See the section captioned "Forward Looking Statements" in the section preceding Part 1. 15 Table of Contents Hospira faces significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Hospira competes with many companies that range from small, highly focused companies to large diversified healthcare manufacturers that have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. There has been consolidation by Hospiras competitors and customer base, which has resulted in pricing and sales pressures, causing competition to become more intense. Hospiras present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by competitors or by the introduction of competing products by one or more of its competitors. To remain competitive and bolster its competitive position, Hospira believes that it must successfully execute various strategic plans, including expanding its research and development initiatives and productivity, lowering its operating costs, and improving its quality and business processes. These initiatives may result in significant expenditures and ultimately may not be successful. Hospiras failure to compete effectively could cause it to lose market share to its competitors and have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. If Hospira does not successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, its sales and operating results may decline. A key component to Hospiras strategy is effective execution of its research and development activities. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, Hospiras products may become obsolete over time, causing its sales and operating results to suffer. If Hospira does not continue to develop generic injectable pharmaceuticals in a timely manner, its competitors may develop products that are more competitive than Hospiras, and Hospira could find it more difficult to renew or expand GPO pricing agreements or to obtain new agreements. The ability to launch a generic pharmaceutical product at or before generic market formation is important to that products profitability. Prices for generic products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following market formation, as additional companies receive approvals to market that product and competition intensifies. If a company can be "first to market," such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved. With increasing competition in the generic product market, the timeliness with which Hospira can market new generic products will increase in importance. If Hospira is unable to bring its generic products to market on a timely basis, and secure "first to market" positions, its sales and profitability could be adversely impacted. Hospira is also actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products. Hospira has entered into an agreement described under "Item 1. Product Development" related to expanding its biosimilars portfolio and capabilities. The success of our biosimilars activities depends on several factors, including among other factors, the adoption of certain laws and regulations, ability to obtain regulatory approvals, and the success of the arrangements with third parties. These activities will require a substantial investment of the companys resources, which may not result in commercially successful products. In 2010, the Patient Protection Affordable Care Act was passed and signed into law in the U.S. This legislation includes new authorization to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") to approve companies to market biosimilar products in the U.S. In early 2012, the FDA recently issued three draft guidance documents regarding biosimiliars, and Hospira is in the process of analyzing these guidelines. Hospira may not be able to generate future sales of such products in certain jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of its investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for product candidates could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs. Hospira faces similar risks if it does not introduce new versions or upgrades to its medication management portfolio. Innovations generally require a substantial investment in product development before Hospira can determine their commercial viability, and Hospira may not have the financial 16 Table of Contents resources necessary to fund these innovations. Even if Hospira succeeds in creating new product candidates from these innovations, such innovations may still fail to result in commercially successful products. For further information related to upgrades to Hospiras SymbiqTM pump and other medication management products, see the section captioned "Quality Assurance" in "Item 1. Business." The success of new product offerings will depend on several factors, including Hospiras ability to properly anticipate customer needs, obtain timely regulatory approvals, and manufacture quality products in an economic and timely manner. Even if Hospira is able to successfully develop new products or enhancements, we may not produce sales equal to or greater than the costs of development or may not avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Such products may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Moreover, innovations may not become successful because of difficulties encountered in achieving positive clinical outcomes, meeting safety, efficacy or other regulatory requirements of government agencies, or obtaining favorable pricing on such products. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, and uncertainty over third party reimbursement. Hospiras issues with its quality systems and processes could have an adverse effect upon Hospiras business, subject Hospira to further regulatory action and costly litigation, and cause a loss of confidence in Hospira and its products. Hospiras future operating results will depend on its ability to implement and improve its quality management program, and effectively train and manage its employee base with respect to quality management. During 2010 and 2011, Hospira has encountered several quality and product related issues referenced in an FDA Warning Letter and subsequent inspections related thereto and certain device remediation activities, including those related to SymbiqTM and PlumTM. Hospira has also committed to the FDA that it would engage in a comprehensive product review for each of Hospiras medication management products. For information related to all of these quality and product related matters, see the section captioned "Quality Assurance" in "Item 1. Business." For information related to the costs to remediate these matters, see the section captioned "Certain Quality and Product Related Matters" in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." While Hospira takes all of these matters seriously, Hospira cannot give any assurances as to the expected date of resolution of all of these matters. While Hospira continues to work to resolve the remaining matters, there can be no assurance that additional costs or penalties will not be incurred, and that additional regulatory actions with respect to Hospira will not occur. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that regulatory agencies or customers will be satisfied with Hospiras response and corrective actions. Until all of the matters are corrected, Hospira may be subject to additional regulatory actions by the FDA, including the withholding of approval of new drug applications, the imposition of a consent decree, product seizure, injunction, and or civil monetary penalties. In addition, new product approvals at all of Hospiras manufacturing facilities could be adversely impacted by these quality matters or any other adverse inspection results at Hospiras other facilities. Further, these quality issues could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in additional Form 483 observations, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, consent decrees, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal or a slowdown of governmental agencies to grant approvals and licenses, withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses, or other restrictions on operations. Hospiras inability to address quality or safety issues in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence, which may result in the loss of sales for existing and new products. All of these issues could erode investor confidence, which could cause further fluctuations in Hospiras stock price or changes to Hospiras credit rating, which could increase Hospiras cost of borrowing. 17 Table of Contents Furthermore, these matters, including the ship hold of Symbiq pumps, could result in the loss of market share for these products, changes to customer buying patterns, loss of customers, and failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements with GPOs. Due to the complexity and depth of these anticipated remediation activities, and dependent upon the schedules for remediation, and the outcomes from the product assessments, these matters have and may continue to adversely impact production, including causing further reduced production volumes, inventory accumulation and or inventory loss due to spoilage, excess, obsolescence or products failing to meet specifications. These quality matters have and may lead to further remediation actions, including recalls or other corrective actions or further adverse regulatory actions. Additionally, these quality matters have adversely impacted, and may impact further, Hospiras net sales and ability to market certain products in all segments. These matters have impacted, and may continue to further impact, Hospiras cash flows. This decrease in cash flows could limit Hospiras flexibility in pursuing its current strategic investments, including Hospiras capacity expansion initiatives in India, modernization efforts at existing facilities, biosimilar research and development programs, global product portfolio expansion efforts, or any other programs Hospira decides to pursue. Hospira may have to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to fund quality initiatives, thereby reducing the cash flow for these other initiatives. Hospira has experienced delays in product approvals at its facilities, and dependent upon the outcomes of these matters and potential further regulatory actions, further delays in, or denials of product approvals could continue to impact Hospira. These quality matters have resulted in, and may further result in, lower customer service levels and resulting higher customer backorders and penalties for failure to supply products. Failure to effectively manage efforts or to realize the benefits under product collaboration agreements may harm Hospiras business and profitability. Hospira collaborates with other companies for the development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of new products in both the specialty injectable pharmaceutical and medication management product lines. Hospira has entered into agreements relating to the long term development and commercialization of proprietary and biosimilar products, which Hospira views as an important long term opportunity for its specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line. For further information related to these agreements, see the section captioned "Product Development" in "Item 1. Business." Hospiras ability to benefit from these arrangements will depend on its ability to successfully manage these arrangements and the performance of the other parties to these arrangements. Hospira and the other parties to these arrangements may not efficiently work together, leading to higher than anticipated costs and delays in important activities under the arrangements. The other parties to these arrangements may not devote the resources that are required for the arrangement to be successful. These arrangements are often governed by complex agreements that may be subject to differing interpretations by the parties, which may result in disputes. The development of proprietary and biosimilar products may require substantial investment by Hospira, and involve a higher degree of risk. Hospira may not be able to realize the expected benefits of such investment. These factors are often beyond the control of Hospira, and could harm Hospiras sales, product development efforts and profitability. Hospira is subject to the cost containment efforts of wholesalers, distributors, third party payors and government organizations, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Hospira relies on drug wholesalers to assist in the distribution of its generic injectable pharmaceutical products. While Hospira has business arrangements in place with its major drug wholesalers, if Hospira is required to pay fees not contemplated by its existing arrangements, Hospira will incur additional costs to distribute its products, which may harm Hospiras profitability. 18  Table of Contents Hospiras products and services are sold to hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third party payors, such as government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. These third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement, if any, may be decreased in the future, and future healthcare reform legislation, regulations or changes to reimbursement policies of third party payors may otherwise adversely affect the demand for and price levels of Hospiras products, which could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales and profitability. In markets outside the U.S., Hospiras business has experienced downward pressure on product pricing as a result of the concentrated buying power of governments as principal customers and the use of bid and tender sales methods whereby Hospira is required to submit a bid for the sale of its products. Hospiras failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability in these markets. If Hospira is unable to obtain or maintain its GPO and IDN pricing agreements, sales of its products could decline. Many existing and potential customers for Hospiras products have combined to form GPOs, and IDNs in an effort to lower costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPOs or an IDNs affiliated hospitals and other members. A small number of GPOs influence a majority of sales to Hospiras hospital customers in the U.S. Failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements could cause Hospira to lose market share to its competitors and have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. The quality and related supply issues that have impacted Hospiras business over the last few years could adversely impact Hospiras ability to negotiate advantageous pricing or purchasing arrangements. Hospira has pricing agreements for certain products with the major GPOs in the U.S., including Amerinet, Inc.; HealthTrust Purchasing Group LP; MedAssets Supply Chain Systems, LLC; Novation, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. It is important for Hospira to continue to maintain pricing arrangements with major GPOs. In order to maintain these relationships, Hospira must offer a reliable supply of high quality, regulatory compliant products. Hospira also needs to maintain a broad product line and be price competitive. Several GPO contracts are up for renewal or extension each year. Moreover, some of the agreements may be terminated on 60 or 90 days notice, while others may not be terminated without breach until the end of their contracted term. If Hospira is unable to renew or extend one or more of those contracts, or one or more of the contracts are terminated, and Hospira cannot replace lost business, Hospiras sales and profitability will decline. There has been consolidation among major GPOs, and further consolidation may occur. The effect of consolidation is uncertain, and consolidation may impair Hospiras ability to contract with GPOs in the future. The GPOs also have a variety of business relationships with Hospiras competitors and may decide to enter into pricing agreements for, or otherwise prefer, products other than Hospiras. While GPOs negotiate incentives for members to purchase specified products from a given manufacturer or distributor, GPO pricing agreements allow customers to choose between the products covered by the arrangement and another manufacturers products, whether or not purchased under a negotiated pricing agreement. As a result, Hospira may face competition for its products even within the context of its GPO pricing agreements. 19 Table of Contents Changes in the buying patterns of Hospiras customers could adversely affect Hospiras operating results. During 2011, sales through the four largest U.S. wholesalers that supply products to many end users accounted for approximately 41% of Hospiras global net sales. Hospiras profitability may be impacted by changes in the buying patterns of these wholesalers, or any other major distributor, or wholesale customer. Their buying patterns may change as a result of end use buyer purchasing decisions, end use customer demand, pricing, or other factors, which could adversely affect Hospiras results of operations. Hospira and its suppliers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and it could be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to sanctions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Hospiras products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device, particularly from the FDA and governmental authorities outside the U.S., can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. To ensure ongoing customer safety, regulatory agencies such as the FDA may re evaluate their current approval processes and may impose additional requirements. In addition, the FDA and others may impose increased or enhanced regulatory inspections for domestic or foreign plants. The FDA, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug and medical device applications, which has delayed approvals of new products. Those delays have become longer, and may continue to increase in the future. These delays can result in higher levels of unapproved inventory and increased costs due to excess and obsolescence exposures. In addition, Hospira may incur additional costs in connection with new regulations covering user fees for generics, biosimilars or devices. Hospira and its collaborative partners and suppliers may not be able to remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other material regulatory requirements once it has obtained clearance or approval for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, off label marketing, advertising and postmarketing reporting, and adverse event reports and field alerts. In addition, manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off label uses or inadequate disclosure of product related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. Hospira and its partners or suppliers may be required by regulatory authorities, or determine on its own, to issue a safety alert, recall or temporarily cease production and sale of certain products to resolve manufacturing and product quality concerns. All of these events could harm Hospiras sales, margins and profitability in the affected periods and may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business. Hospira is also subject to various federal, state, and foreign laws pertaining to foreign corrupt practices and healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in national, federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs and health programs outside the U.S. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Hospira to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Hospiras business and result in a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales, profitability and financial condition. For a more detailed listing of the laws and regulations that significantly affect Hospiras business and operations, see the section captioned "Governmental Regulation and Other Matters" in "Item 1. 20 Table of Contents Business." Any adverse regulatory action, or action taken by Hospira to maintain appropriate regulatory compliance, with respect to these laws and regulations could disrupt Hospiras business and have a material adverse effect on its sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, an adverse regulatory action with respect to any Hospira product, operating procedure or manufacturing facility could materially harm Hospiras reputation in the marketplace. Proposed changes in FDA regulations or actions related to infusion pumps and medical devices may lead to increased costs and delays, which could negatively impact Hospiras business. In April 2010, the FDA issued a draft guidance document entitled "Total Product Life Cycle: Infusion Pump Premarket Notification [510(k)] Submissions." Through this draft guidance, the FDA has established additional pre market requirements for infusion pumps. The proposed guidance is subject to further revisions by the FDA, but the FDAs expectation is that the guidelines should be followed in the interim. At the same time, the FDA is also enhancing its pre market requirements for medical devices generally. Although Hospira cannot predict with certainty the future impact of these initiatives, it appears that the process for obtaining regulatory approvals to market infusion pumps and medical devices will become more costly and time consuming. In addition, the new requirements could result in longer delays for the approval of new products as well as remediation of existing products in the market. Future delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals could result in delayed or no realization of product revenues. Hospira may continue to acquire businesses and assets, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, form alliances, or dispose of businesses and assets, and any of these actions may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, or at all. As part of Hospiras business strategy, Hospira may continue to acquire other businesses and assets, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, form alliances, or dispose of businesses and assets, and any of these actions may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, or at all. Hospira also may pursue strategic alliances to expand its product offerings and geographic presence. Moreover, Hospira has entered into agreements with other companies to share in the manufacturing and development of certain biosimilar candidates. Hospira may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement, strategic alliance, or disposition. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with Hospira for opportunities. If Hospira is successful in securing certain opportunities, the products and technologies that Hospira acquires may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Hospira may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business. To finance acquisitions or other investments, Hospira has incurred, and may continue to incur or assume significant debt. This significant indebtedness may require Hospira to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to servicing its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments, and for general corporate purposes. In addition, this significant indebtedness may increase Hospiras vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates. In addition, this may limit Hospiras flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to its business and industry. Hospira may incur greater than expected costs in connection with these transactions if it encounters difficulties or issues not known to it at the time of entering into the transaction. In addition, Hospira may enter markets in which it has no or limited prior experience. Hospira could experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition related charges. Any of these negative effects could cause a downgrade of Hospiras credit rating, which would affect Hospiras ability to obtain new financing and negatively impact Hospiras cost of financing and credit. 21 Table of Contents The Company is increasingly dependent on its outsourcing and third party provider arrangements. Hospira is increasing its dependence on third party providers for certain services, including certain information technology, research and development, third party manufacturing, and finance and accounting outsourcing arrangements. The failure of these service providers to meet their obligations or the development of significant disagreements or other factors may materially disrupt Hospiras ongoing relationship with these providers or the services they provide, which could negatively affect operations. Challenging economic or business conditions could adversely affect our operations. The securities and credit markets have experienced volatility in the past, and in some cases, exerted negative pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain companies. Hospiras ability to access the credit and capital markets, and the related cost of borrowings, will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, the availability of credit and the strength of Hospiras credit rating. If Hospiras credit rating were to be downgraded for any reason, including the reasons described in this "Item 1A. Risk Factors," Hospiras cost of borrowing could increase, and Hospiras ability to obtain new financing could be negatively impacted. Lending institutions, including those associated with Hospiras $1.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in 2016, may suffer losses due to their lending and other financial relationships. As a result, lenders may become insolvent, which could affect the actual availability of credit under Hospiras revolving credit facility, or Hospiras ability to obtain other financing on equally favorable terms. Moreover, insurance companies and other financial institutions may suffer losses, which could affect the cost and availability of insurance coverage. If one or more of these events occurred, Hospiras liquidity may prove to be insufficient, cost of borrowing may increase and Hospiras financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Demand for Hospiras products may decrease due to adverse economic conditions, resulting in the loss of jobs or healthcare coverage, thereby affecting an individuals ability to pay for elective healthcare. Adverse economic conditions may also increase Hospiras customers cost containment efforts, and affect Hospiras customers solvency or their ability to obtain credit to finance their purchases of Hospiras products, which could reduce Hospiras revenue and cause a decrease in Hospiras profitability. These economic conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products. Acquisitions have increased Hospiras investment balances, intangible assets and goodwill balances, and a decline in the value of assets may adversely affect Hospiras financial position or results of operation. As a result of Hospiras acquisitions, intangible assets and goodwill have become significant. The values for these assets can be affected by factors, such as increased competition, development discontinuation, delay in regulatory approval, product quality, changes in business strategies, decline in stock price, and the impact of restructurings, disposition transactions, and business combinations. As a result of these factors or other events, Hospira has impaired goodwill and certain intangible assets and may further have to impair these assets or change estimated useful lives, which may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras financial position or results of operations. In addition, Hospira regularly reviews its investments, including equity and cost based investments, to determine when a significant event or change in circumstance has occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value of each investment. Hospira considers numerous factors, including factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry of the investee, and general equity market trends. Hospira also considers the length of time an investments market value has been below carrying value and the near term prospects for recovery to carrying value. Volatility in the global equity markets and other factors could adversely impact the fair value of Hospiras investments and, as a consequence, 22 Table of Contents could result in a charge for an other than temporary decline in value, which could have an adverse effect on Hospiras financial position and results of operations. The manufacture of Hospiras products is highly exacting and complex, and if Hospira or its suppliers encounter problems manufacturing, storing or distributing products, Hospiras business could suffer. The manufacture of Hospiras products and products Hospira produces for third parties is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements governing the manufacture of drugs and medical devices. Problems may arise during manufacturing, quality control, storage or distribution of Hospiras products and products Hospira manufactures for third parties for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, manufacturing quality concerns, or problems with raw materials, electromechanical, software and other components, supplier issues, and natural disaster related events or other environmental factors. If problems arise during the production, storage or distribution of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. Problems could also lead to increased costs, lost sales, damage to customer relations, failure to supply penalties, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, voluntary recalls, corrective actions or product liability related costs may also be incurred. Problems with respect to the manufacture, storage or distribution of its products could materially disrupt Hospiras business and harm its sales and profitability. Certain of Hospiras products are produced at a single manufacturing facility, and we face risks inherent in manufacturing our products at a single facility or a single site. Any disruption would likely lead to substantial production delays. If this occurs, we may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. During 2010 and 2011, Hospira temporarily shut down certain of its production lines or slowed the release of certain products to respond to certain quality issues, as described in the section captioned "Manufacturing" in "Item 1 Business." Such disruptions have adversely impacted, and continue to adversely impact, Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. If Hospira experiences any further significant interruptions of manufacturing or further slow down in the release of products at any of its facilities, such an interruption could further materially and adversely affect Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. Hospira can experience higher costs to produce its products as a result of rising commodity prices. Hospira uses commodities, such as platinum, resins and other petroleum based materials as raw materials in many of its products. Prices of oil, fuel, and other gases also significantly affect Hospiras costs for freight and utilities. Platinum, oil, fuel, and other gas prices are volatile. If costs increase and Hospira is unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions or hedging activities, Hospira could experience lower margins and profitability. Hospira depends on third parties to supply raw materials and other components, and third party finished goods. Hospira may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which could limit Hospiras ability to manufacture or sell products on a timely basis and could harm its profitability. The manufacture of Hospiras products requires raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient and electromechanical and other components that must meet stringent FDA and other regulatory requirements. While efforts are made to diversify our sources of materials and components, some of these raw materials and other components are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, Hospira relies on certain proprietary components available exclusively from ICU Medical and active pharmaceutical ingredients from Orchid Chemical. For a more detailed description of those relationships, see the section captioned "Raw Materials and Components" in "Item 1. Business." 23 Table of Contents In addition, Hospira purchases from single sources certain compounding materials, polyvinyl chloride resin and laminate film components for Hospiras production of certain flexible bags that it uses with its I.V. and pre mixed solutions, as well as rubber components that it uses with some of its injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira also obtains from single sources certain active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. Identifying alternative suppliers and obtaining approval to change or substitute a raw material or component, or the supplier of a finished product, raw material or component, can be time consuming and expensive, as testing, validation and regulatory approval are necessary. While we work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In the past, Hospiras business has experienced shortages in some of the raw materials and components of its products. Continuous supply of petroleum based products is especially risky due to the limited number of capable suppliers, limited production capacity and the effect of natural disasters. If suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or if supply is otherwise disrupted, including by suppliers exiting the market, the manufacture and sale of Hospiras products may be disrupted, and its sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Hospiras continuous improvement activities have resulted, and may continue to result, in significant charges and cash expenditures. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended improvement or cost savings. Hospiras strategy, in part, has been to improve margins and cash flow to drive sustained growth. In addition to cost reduction initiatives, Hospira has taken various other actions to dispose of, or close, certain manufacturing, research and development, and other facilities. These actions have resulted in significant charges to Hospiras results of operations and cash expenditures. Hospira aims to achieve a culture of continuous improvement that will enhance its efficiency, effectiveness, and competitiveness and substantially improve its cost base. Continuous improvement activities could result in additional charges and cash expenditures, including capital expenditures and charges associated with Hospiras expansion in India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity. Furthermore, Hospira expects higher capital expenditures related to modernizing and streamlining its existing facilities. If Hospira does not realize the expected savings from its continuous improvement efforts, its profitability may be adversely affected. Cost reduction and continuous improvement activities are complex, and if Hospira does not successfully manage these activities, its operations and business could be disrupted and Hospira may incur more costs than anticipated. In connection with these activities, the companys failure to hire or retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that are critical to its business functions could adversely impact the execution of its business strategy. Hospiras manufacturing capacity could limit its ability to expand its business without significant capital investment. From time to time, Hospira may need to invest substantial capital resources to expand its manufacturing capacity if Hospira introduces new products, demand increases significantly for its products, or if it is successful in obtaining significant additional customers for its injectable pharmaceuticals contract manufacturing services business. In 2011, to ensure Hospiras manufacturing capacity aligns with expected future commercial growth and demand, Hospira began expansion in India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity. Hospira anticipates that the first commercial products will be released from this facility in 2014. Further, Hospira is taking steps over the next few years to prepare for facility modernization and streamlining at its existing manufacturing facilities. These 24 Table of Contents expansion and modernization efforts may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all, and Hospira may not realize the desired benefits of these efforts. As a result of cost reduction efforts over the last few years, Hospira has announced the closing of, or has sold, certain of its facilities. While Hospira believes it has available manufacturing capacity to absorb, or has had the ability to outsource, the production at these closed or sold facilities, there may be less available capacity at Hospiras facilities. If Hospira experiences an interruption in manufacturing at any of its primary manufacturing facilities, it may not be able to produce sufficient products for its customers. In some cases, the manufacturing of Hospiras products is concentrated in one or a few locations. Any significant interruption in Hospiras ability to manufacture products over an extended duration may result in delays in Hospiras ability to resume production of affected products or to begin production of new products, which may adversely impact our ability to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis. As a result, Hospira may suffer loss of market share, which may not be recaptured, and its reputation may be harmed, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Hospira experienced interruptions and a slow down in the release of products at certain of its manufacturing facilities for the reasons described in "Item 1. Quality Assurance." As a result, Hospiras sales, margins and profitability have been adversely impacted, and if further interruptions occur, Hospira may have further adverse impacts to its sales, margin and profitability. Hospira relies on the performance of its information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on Hospiras business and performance. Hospira operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure to manage our finances, and to manufacture, enable compliance and to market and sell our products. These systems are vulnerable to interruption or failure due to the age of certain of our systems, viruses, malware, security breaches, fire, power loss, system malfunction and other events, which may be beyond Hospiras control. Systems interruptions or failures could reduce Hospiras ability to manufacture its products or continue its business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras operations and financial performance. In addition, a cyber attack that bypasses our information technology security systems causing a security breach may lead to a material disruption of our information technology business systems and or the loss of business information resulting in an adverse business impact. The age of Hospiras information technology systems, as well as the level of Hospiras protection and business continuity or disaster recovery capability, varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. Hospiras capital investment levels in its information technology systems will increase over the next few years as Hospira expects to replace certain old, fully depreciated systems. Hospira conducts operations outside of the U.S. and is subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, that may cause its sales and profitability to decline. Sales in markets outside the U.S. comprised approximately 30% of 2011 net sales. Hospira anticipates that sales from outside the U.S. will continue to represent a significant portion of net sales. The additional risks associated with Hospiras operations outside the U.S. include: (i)fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (for a discussion of the ways and extent to which Hospira attempts to mitigate such risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."); (ii)multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change, which may delay or deter Hospiras international product commercialization efforts; 25 Table of Contents (iii)differing local medical practices, product preferences and product requirements, or changing government reimbursement practices; (iv)trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other controls or restrictions; (v)difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations outside the U.S.; (vi)differing labor regulations or work stoppages or strikes at Hospiras union facilities; (vii)complying with U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the U.S. FCPA, and anti boycott laws, and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010; (viii)loss of business through government tenders that are held annually in many cases; (ix)potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws, including legislative changes concerning taxation of income earned outside of the U.S.; (x)political and economic instability, including the European financial crisis or other economic instability in other parts of the world and the impact on Hospiras receivables; (xi)disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic area, due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers, caused by natural or man made disasters or other causes; and (xii)diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S. In addition, Hospira operates in many countries outside the U.S. through distributors. Its success will depend on the efforts and performance of such distributors, which are beyond Hospiras control. While Hospira has programs in place to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations impacting Hospira and its distributors, if it were determined that a distributor was not in compliance with certain laws and regulations, Hospira could be subject to civil and or criminal liability and other material adverse effects. Moreover, if certain of those distributor relationships are unsuccessful, the costs to terminate such distributor relationship and or to re establish a customer base could adversely affect Hospiras profitability in certain regions. These risks could have an adverse effect on Hospiras ability to distribute and sell its products in markets outside the U.S. and could adversely affect Hospiras profitability. Hospira is involved in various lawsuits and proceedings that could negatively affect its business. Hospira is involved in various claims and legal proceedings, as well as product liability claims and proceedings related to Hospiras business, including in some instances when Hospira operated as part of Abbott. In some instances, these claims and proceedings could preclude the continued sale and marketing of Hospiras products or otherwise adversely affect operations, profitability or liquidity. In addition, Hospira has been named as a defendant in class action lawsuits and shareholder derivative lawsuits. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" for more information regarding these lawsuits. These matters could have an adverse effect on Hospiras business, profitability or financial condition. In addition, there could be an increase in scope of these matters and there could be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future. In light of these uncertainties, we cannot assure that the outcome of these matters will not result in charges in excess of any established accruals. In the past, Hospira has been involved in investigations related to improper marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products. Hospira could be subject to these investigations or lawsuits again in the future, and these matters could have an adverse impact on Hospira. 26 Table of Contents Hospira may incur product liability losses and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. Hospiras business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of drugs, medical devices and other products. In the ordinary course of business, Hospira is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits, safety alerts, recalls or corrective actions, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Hospira is responsible for all liabilities, including liabilities for claims and lawsuits, related to its business, whether they arose before or after the spin off, other than certain liabilities relating to allegations that it engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices in connection with federal, state or private reimbursement for its products. As part of Hospiras risk management policy, Hospira carries third party product liability insurance coverage, which includes a substantial retention or deductible which provides that Hospira will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of that retention or deductible. To the extent that any losses are within these retentions or deductibles, Hospira will be responsible for the administration and payment of these losses. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. If Hospira is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its business and prospects could be harmed. Hospira relies on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, continuing technological innovation and, in some cases, patent, trademark and service mark protection to preserve its competitive position. A failure to protect Hospiras intellectual property could harm its business and prospects, and its efforts to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate. Principal products and their related trademarks are discussed in the section captioned "Products" in "Item 1. Business," and the patents related to PrecedexTM, which represents approximately 6% of Hospiras net sales and is licensed to Hospira in the Americas and APAC segments, and in the Middle East and Africa, are discussed in the section captioned "Patents, Trademarks, and other Intellectual Property" in "Item 1.Business" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." In the Americas, Precedex represents approximately 10% of specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line net sales. Most of Hospiras products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights, and have limited or no market exclusivity. Patent filings by third parties could render Hospiras intellectual property less valuable. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in certain countries outside the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also harm sales of Hospiras products by designing products that mirror the capabilities of those products or technology without infringing Hospiras intellectual property rights. If Hospira does not obtain or maintain sufficient protection for its intellectual property, Hospiras competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit its growth and future sales. If Hospira infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties, Hospira may face legal action, increased costs and delays in marketing new products. Hospira seeks to launch generic pharmaceutical products either where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid or where products do not infringe the patents of others. To achieve a "first to market" position for generic pharmaceutical products, Hospira may take action, such as litigation, to seek to assert that its products do not infringe 27 Table of Contents patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. These actions and litigation could be costly and time consuming, and may not be successful. Hospira has made certain abbreviated new drug applications ("ANDA") with Paragraph IV certifications that the relevant patents for existing products would not be infringed by a Hospira product, or were invalid or unenforceable, in the U.S. and equivalent filings in Canada. Claims filed by innovators contesting these certifications may delay or prevent the launch of the relevant products and result in additional costs. Hospira is currently involved in patent related disputes with companies over Hospiras attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products. Once Hospira has final approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals, Hospira may decide to commercially market these products while the ultimate disposition of legal proceedings has not concluded. For example in 2011, Hospira received final FDA approval in the U.S. and launched an oncolytic drug docetaxel (a generic version of Sanofi Aventis Taxotere&reg;) that is the subject of ongoing patent litigation. If Hospiras products are ultimately found to infringe the patent rights of another company, Hospira may be subject to significant damages, which may be based on a reasonable royalty or the lost profits from the sale of the branded product and or an injunction preventing Hospira from further sales. For further detail related to Hospiras patent related litigation, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Third parties may claim that Hospiras products are infringing their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could be costly and time consuming and might require Hospira to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, if Hospira is able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms. Hospira also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing it from manufacturing, selling or using some of its products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. Changes in the funded status or costs of Hospiras pension or post retirement benefit plans could adversely affect Hospiras financial position and results of operations. The funded status of Hospiras pension and post retirement benefit plans is subject to developments and changes in actuarial and other related assumptions. Decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly with respect to equity securities, and a change in the actual rate of return on plan assets can result in significant changes to the expected return on plan assets in the following year and, as a consequence, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. In addition, changes in assumptions, such as discount rates, mortality rates, healthcare cost trend rates and other factors, may lead to significant increases in the value of the respective obligations. Assumption changes could affect the reported funded status of Hospiras plans and, as a result, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on Hospiras financial position and results of operations. Income taxes can have an unpredictable effect on Hospiras results of operations and result in greater than anticipated liabilities. Hospira is subject to income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions, and its tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. Because Hospiras income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions during that period, which is inherently uncertain, its income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted. Moreover, changes in or interpretations of tax laws and regulations (including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings), changes in investments in foreign countries with favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state and foreign tax audits, may affect Hospiras profitability and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Hospira is the beneficiary of tax exemptions in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S., where a portion of its income is earned. These tax exemptions have a significant impact on reducing Hospiras overall effective tax rate. If Hospira is unable to maintain these tax exemptions, Hospiras future profitability may be reduced. Changes in laws or governmental policies can affect the availability of these exemptions. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, positions taken by Hospira are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Although Hospira believes its tax provisions and related liability balances are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect its financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. The stock market can be volatile and fluctuations in Hospiras operating results, as well as other factors, could cause its stock price to decline. During the past few years, the stock market has experienced fluctuations, which has significantly impacted the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Market fluctuations could adversely affect Hospiras stock price. Moreover, Hospiras sales and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter due to the risk factors set forth herein. Hospiras stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to its quarterly results and the impact of these risk factors on Hospiras operating results or financial position.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.  Item 2. Properties Manufacturing and R&D. Hospiras corporate headquarters and the locations and uses of Hospiras principal manufacturing and research and development ("R&D") properties as of December 31, 2011, are as follows: Location* Primary Use Owned/Leased Adelaide, South Australia, Australia R&D Owned Austin, Texas Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned Buffalo, New York Device Manufacturing Owned Boulder, Colorado Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient Manufacturing and R&D Leased (expires 2016) Clayton, North Carolina Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned Finisklin, Sligo, Ireland Device Manufacturing Leased (expires 2013) Irungattukottai, India** Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned/Leased (expires 2102) La Aurora, Costa Rica Device Manufacturing Owned Lake Forest, Illinois** Corporate Headquarters and R&D Owned/Leased (expires 2016) Liscate, Italy Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned McPherson, Kansas Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned Mulgrave, Victoria, Australia Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned Rocky Mount, North Carolina Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned San Cristobal, Dominican Republic** Device Manufacturing Owned/Leased (expires 2013) San Diego, California R&D Leased (expires 2019) *The locations listed above generally support all of Hospiras segments. **The Irungattukottai, India, San Cristobal, Dominican Republic and Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S. locations include both owned and leased facilities. 29  Table of Contents Certain of Hospiras regional headquarters are leased properties, which are located in Royal Leamington Spa, United Kingdom, for Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Melbourne, Australia, for Asia Pacific ("APAC"). Hospira has an unconsolidated joint venture with Cadila Healthcare Limited ("Cadila"), a pharmaceutical company located in Ahmedabad, Gujarat State, India. The joint venture, Zydus Hospira Oncology Private Limited ("ZHOPL") operates a manufacturing facility in a special economic zone outside of Ahmedabad, India, that has been inspected and approved by the United Kingdoms Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and the FDA. Under the joint venture agreement, the facility manufactures a number of cytotoxic drugs for sale by both Hospira and Cadila in their respective territories with Hospira holding exclusive rights in almost all major markets including the United States, Canada, the European Union and other western European countries, the Middle East, and countries within the Asia Pacific region. Distribution. Hospira also owns and operates distribution facilities in the U.S. located in Stone Mountain, Georgia; Farmers Branch, Texas; King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; and Santa Fe Springs, California. Hospira also leases and operates distribution facilities at Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin and Wallington, United Kingdom. Hospira continually evaluates its plants and production lines and believes that its current facilities, plus any planned expansions and modernization initiatives, will be generally sufficient to meet its expected needs. In 2011, to ensure Hospiras manufacturing capacity aligns with expected future commercial growth and demand, Hospira began expansion in Vizag, India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity utilizing long term land leases acquired in 2010. Hospira anticipates that the first commercial products will be released from this facility in 2014. Further, Hospira expects higher capital expenditures related to modernization and streamlining at its existing facilities over the next few years.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information on our legal proceedings is included in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," in this Form 10 K.  Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable Executive Officers of Hospira The executive officers of Hospira are set forth below. Their ages as of February 14, 2012, and the positions and offices held by them during the past five years are also indicated. There are no family relationships between any corporate officers or directors. All executive officers hold office until the next annual election of officers and until their respective successors are elected and qualified, unless sooner removed. F. Michael Ball, age 56, joined Hospira as its Chief Executive Officer and as a director on March 28, 2011. Mr. Ball joined Hospira after a 16 year career at Allergan, Inc., a multi specialty healthcare company, where he held several senior leadership positions. For the five years prior to joining Hospira, Mr. Ball served as President of Allergan. Mr. Ball also serves on the board of directors of STEC, Inc., a publicly traded manufacturer and marketer of computer memory and hard drive storage solutions. Richard Davies, age 50, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer, effective February 2, 2012. From August 2011 to February 2012, Mr. Davies served as Vice President and General Manager, Japan and Asia Pacific at Amgen (a developer and manufacturer of human 30 Table of Contents therapeutics). During the past five years, Mr. Davies also held the following positions at Amgen: Vice President and General Manager, Asia and Latin America (November 2010 to August 2011), Vice President, Sales Inflammation Business Unit (January 2009 to November 2010), and General Manager, Australia (throughout 2007 and 2008). Francois (Frans) L. Dubois, age 58, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Quality. Mr. Dubois has served in that position since January 2011. Mr. Dubois served as the Vice President of Quality for Tengion, Inc. (a regenerative medicine company) from 2009 to 2010. From 2008 to 2009, Mr. Dubois was Vice President of Global External Manufacturing and Supplier Quality Operations at Global Pharmaceutical Supply Group (a fully owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, a global pharmaceutical, medical device and consumer packaged goods manufacturer). During 2007 and 2008, Mr. Dubois was Vice President, Worldwide Quality at Global Biologics Supply Chain (a fully owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson). James H. Hardy, Jr., age 52, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Operations. Mr. Hardy has served in that position since January 2011. Mr. Hardy was Hospiras Corporate Vice President, Supply Chain, from 2009 to 2010. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Hardy served as the Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, at Dial Corporation (a maker of personal care and household cleaning products). Also in 2007, he served as the Executive Vice President, Product Supply at ConAgra Foods, Inc. (a packaged foods company). Daphne E. Jones, age 54, is Hospiras Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Ms. Jones has served in that position since November 2009. Ms. Jones served as the Worldwide Vice President of Information Technology ("IT") and Chief Information Officer for Johnson & Johnsons Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (a Johnson & Johnson company that provides solutions for screening, diagnosing, monitoring and confirming diseases early) from 2007 to 2009. Kenneth F. Meyers, age 50, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Organizational Transformation and People Development. Mr. Meyers has served in that position since November 2008. In 2007 and 2008, Mr. Meyers served as a partner of Oliver Wyman Delta Executive Learning Center (a global management consulting firm). Sumant Ramachandra, M.D., Ph.D., age 43, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Medical and Regulatory Affairs and Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Ramachandra has served in that position since July 2008. Dr. Ramachandra served as Vice President and Senior Project Leader, Global Development, at Schering Plough, a global healthcare company, in 2007 and 2008. Brian J. Smith, age 60, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He has served in that position during the past five years. Thomas E. Werner, age 54, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. He has served in that position during the past five years. Richard J. Hoffman, age 45, is Hospiras Corporate Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. He has served in such position since August 2009. From August 2007 to August 2009, he served as Hospiras Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Also, in 2007, Mr. Hoffman served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at CNH Global N.V. (Case New Holland a global agricultural and construction equipment manufacturer). 31  Table of Contents  PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Common Stock Hospiras common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "HSP." The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for Hospiras common stock on the NYSE for each period indicated. Market Price Per Share 2011 2010 For the quarter ended: High Low High Low March 31 $ 56.80 $ 51.05 $ 57.38 $ 48.56 June 30 $ 58.13 $ 53.74 $ 57.97 $ 50.11 September 30 $ 55.67 $ 34.44 $ 59.75 $ 50.26 December 31 $ 38.76 $ 27.29 $ 59.65 $ 54.83 As of February 8, 2012, Hospira had approximately 29,954 shareholders of record. Hospira has not paid any dividends on its common stock. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Hospira of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(1)(2) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(2) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(2) October 1 October 31, 2011 1,600 $ 30.10 $ 800,000,000 November 1 November 30, 2011 3,000 31.14 800,000,000 December 1 December 31, 2011 3,000 29.28 800,000,000 Total 7,600 $ 30.19 $ 800,000,000 (1)In addition to the shares purchased as part of the publicly announced Plan, these shares represent the shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Hospira Healthcare Corporation ("Hospira Canada") Stock Purchase Plan 1,600 in October, 3,000 in both November and December. (2)In April 2011, Hospiras Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of Hospiras common stock. In April and May 2011, Hospira entered into accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") contracts with a third party financial institution to repurchase $200.0 million in aggregate of Hospiras common stock. Under the ASR contracts, Hospira received 3.7 million shares. Hospira from time to time may repurchase additional shares under this authorization the timing of which will depend on various factors such as cash generation from operations, cash expenditures required for other purposes, current stock price and other factors. 32 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares the performance of Hospira common stock for the periods indicated with the performance of the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Health Care Index.  Comparison of Cumulative Total Return Assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2006 in Hospira common stock and each index. Values are as of the close of the U.S. stock markets on December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and assume dividends are reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared or paid on Hospira common stock. Returns over the indicated period may not be indicative of future returns. 33 Table of Contents  Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following tables set forth Hospiras selected financial information derived from its audited consolidated financial statements as of, and for the years ended, December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007. The selected financial information should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Hospiras audited financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." For the Years Ended December 31, (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 4,057.1 $ 3,917.2 $ 3,879.3 $ 3,629.5 $ 3,436.2 Gross profit(1) 1,397.6 1,514.4 1,456.4 1,342.7 1,195.7 Income from operations(2)(3) 56.8 519.2 502.9 517.8 302.6 (Loss) Income before income taxes(2)(3) (27.1 ) 379.3 384.1 407.5 187.8 Net (Loss) Income(2)(3)(4) $ (9.4 ) $ 357.2 $ 403.9 $ 320.9 $ 136.8 (Loss) Earnings per common share: Basic $ (0.06 ) $ 2.15 $ 2.51 $ 2.02 $ 0.87 Diluted $ (0.06 ) $ 2.11 $ 2.47 $ 1.99 $ 0.85 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 165.5 166.0 161.0 159.2 156.9 Diluted 165.5 169.5 163.2 161.3 160.2 (1)Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. (2)Amounts include goodwill impairment charges of $400.2 million in 2011. (3)Amounts include acquired in process research and development charges of $0.5 million and $88.0 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4)Amounts include Equity income from affiliates of $45.6 million and $12.2 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Equity income from affiliates was not significant for years prior to 2010. Additionally, amounts include discrete income tax benefits of $19.7 million and $91.9 million in 2011 and 2009, respectively, due to Internal Revenue Service audit settlements. December 31, (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 5,779.1 $ 6,046.3 $ 5,502.9 $ 5,074.1 $ 5,084.7 Long term debt $ 1,711.9 $ 1,714.4 $ 1,707.3 $ 1,834.0 $ 2,184.4 34  Table of Contents  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies that develops, manufactures, distributes and markets products. Through a broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance WellnessTM by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. Hospiras portfolio includes generic acute care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management products. Hospiras portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home health care providers and long term care facilities. Product Development and Product Launches Hospiras product development programs are concentrated in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management. Hospira manages these product development programs and related costs through the following four categories: generic pharmaceuticals, biosimilars, proprietary pharmaceuticals and device products. For further information about these categories see the section captioned "Product Development" in "Item I. Business" and for information related to certain of Hospiras collaborative agreements for biosimilars and proprietary pharmaceuticals see Note 4 to the financial statements in "
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." While Hospira takes all of these matters seriously, Hospira cannot give any assurances as to the expected date of resolution of all of these matters. While Hospira continues to work to resolve the remaining matters, there can be no assurance that additional costs or penalties will not be incurred, and that additional regulatory actions with respect to Hospira will not occur. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that regulatory agencies or customers will be satisfied with Hospiras response and corrective actions. Until all of the matters are corrected, Hospira may be subject to additional regulatory actions by the FDA, including the withholding of approval of new drug applications, the imposition of a consent decree, product seizure, injunction, and or civil monetary penalties. In addition, new product approvals at all of Hospiras manufacturing facilities could be adversely impacted by these quality matters or any other adverse inspection results at Hospiras other facilities. Further, these quality issues could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in additional Form 483 observations, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, consent decrees, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal or a slowdown of governmental agencies to grant approvals and licenses, withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses, or other restrictions on operations. Hospiras inability to address quality or safety issues in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence, which may result in the loss of sales for existing and new products. All of these issues could erode investor confidence, which could cause further fluctuations in Hospiras stock price or changes to Hospiras credit rating, which could increase Hospiras cost of borrowing. 17 Table of Contents Furthermore, these matters, including the ship hold of Symbiq pumps, could result in the loss of market share for these products, changes to customer buying patterns, loss of customers, and failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements with GPOs. Due to the complexity and depth of these anticipated remediation activities, and dependent upon the schedules for remediation, and the outcomes from the product assessments, these matters have and may continue to adversely impact production, including causing further reduced production volumes, inventory accumulation and or inventory loss due to spoilage, excess, obsolescence or products failing to meet specifications. These quality matters have and may lead to further remediation actions, including recalls or other corrective actions or further adverse regulatory actions. Additionally, these quality matters have adversely impacted, and may impact further, Hospiras net sales and ability to market certain products in all segments. These matters have impacted, and may continue to further impact, Hospiras cash flows. This decrease in cash flows could limit Hospiras flexibility in pursuing its current strategic investments, including Hospiras capacity expansion initiatives in India, modernization efforts at existing facilities, biosimilar research and development programs, global product portfolio expansion efforts, or any other programs Hospira decides to pursue. Hospira may have to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to fund quality initiatives, thereby reducing the cash flow for these other initiatives. Hospira has experienced delays in product approvals at its facilities, and dependent upon the outcomes of these matters and potential further regulatory actions, further delays in, or denials of product approvals could continue to impact Hospira. These quality matters have resulted in, and may further result in, lower customer service levels and resulting higher customer backorders and penalties for failure to supply products. Failure to effectively manage efforts or to realize the benefits under product collaboration agreements may harm Hospiras business and profitability. Hospira collaborates with other companies for the development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of new products in both the specialty injectable pharmaceutical and medication management product lines. Hospira has entered into agreements relating to the long term development and commercialization of proprietary and biosimilar products, which Hospira views as an important long term opportunity for its specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line. For further information related to these agreements, see the section captioned "Product Development" in "Item 1. Business." Hospiras ability to benefit from these arrangements will depend on its ability to successfully manage these arrangements and the performance of the other parties to these arrangements. Hospira and the other parties to these arrangements may not efficiently work together, leading to higher than anticipated costs and delays in important activities under the arrangements. The other parties to these arrangements may not devote the resources that are required for the arrangement to be successful. These arrangements are often governed by complex agreements that may be subject to differing interpretations by the parties, which may result in disputes. The development of proprietary and biosimilar products may require substantial investment by Hospira, and involve a higher degree of risk. Hospira may not be able to realize the expected benefits of such investment. These factors are often beyond the control of Hospira, and could harm Hospiras sales, product development efforts and profitability. Hospira is subject to the cost containment efforts of wholesalers, distributors, third party payors and government organizations, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Hospira relies on drug wholesalers to assist in the distribution of its generic injectable pharmaceutical products. While Hospira has business arrangements in place with its major drug wholesalers, if Hospira is required to pay fees not contemplated by its existing arrangements, Hospira will incur additional costs to distribute its products, which may harm Hospiras profitability. 18  Table of Contents Hospiras products and services are sold to hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long term care facilities which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third party payors, such as government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. These third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement, if any, may be decreased in the future, and future healthcare reform legislation, regulations or changes to reimbursement policies of third party payors may otherwise adversely affect the demand for and price levels of Hospiras products, which could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales and profitability. In markets outside the U.S., Hospiras business has experienced downward pressure on product pricing as a result of the concentrated buying power of governments as principal customers and the use of bid and tender sales methods whereby Hospira is required to submit a bid for the sale of its products. Hospiras failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability in these markets. If Hospira is unable to obtain or maintain its GPO and IDN pricing agreements, sales of its products could decline. Many existing and potential customers for Hospiras products have combined to form GPOs, and IDNs in an effort to lower costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPOs or an IDNs affiliated hospitals and other members. A small number of GPOs influence a majority of sales to Hospiras hospital customers in the U.S. Failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements could cause Hospira to lose market share to its competitors and have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. The quality and related supply issues that have impacted Hospiras business over the last few years could adversely impact Hospiras ability to negotiate advantageous pricing or purchasing arrangements. Hospira has pricing agreements for certain products with the major GPOs in the U.S., including Amerinet, Inc.; HealthTrust Purchasing Group LP; MedAssets Supply Chain Systems, LLC; Novation, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. It is important for Hospira to continue to maintain pricing arrangements with major GPOs. In order to maintain these relationships, Hospira must offer a reliable supply of high quality, regulatory compliant products. Hospira also needs to maintain a broad product line and be price competitive. Several GPO contracts are up for renewal or extension each year. Moreover, some of the agreements may be terminated on 60 or 90 days notice, while others may not be terminated without breach until the end of their contracted term. If Hospira is unable to renew or extend one or more of those contracts, or one or more of the contracts are terminated, and Hospira cannot replace lost business, Hospiras sales and profitability will decline. There has been consolidation among major GPOs, and further consolidation may occur. The effect of consolidation is uncertain, and consolidation may impair Hospiras ability to contract with GPOs in the future. The GPOs also have a variety of business relationships with Hospiras competitors and may decide to enter into pricing agreements for, or otherwise prefer, products other than Hospiras. While GPOs negotiate incentives for members to purchase specified products from a given manufacturer or distributor, GPO pricing agreements allow customers to choose between the products covered by the arrangement and another manufacturers products, whether or not purchased under a negotiated pricing agreement. As a result, Hospira may face competition for its products even within the context of its GPO pricing agreements. 19 Table of Contents Changes in the buying patterns of Hospiras customers could adversely affect Hospiras operating results. During 2011, sales through the four largest U.S. wholesalers that supply products to many end users accounted for approximately 41% of Hospiras global net sales. Hospiras profitability may be impacted by changes in the buying patterns of these wholesalers, or any other major distributor, or wholesale customer. Their buying patterns may change as a result of end use buyer purchasing decisions, end use customer demand, pricing, or other factors, which could adversely affect Hospiras results of operations. Hospira and its suppliers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and it could be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to sanctions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Hospiras products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device, particularly from the FDA and governmental authorities outside the U.S., can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. To ensure ongoing customer safety, regulatory agencies such as the FDA may re evaluate their current approval processes and may impose additional requirements. In addition, the FDA and others may impose increased or enhanced regulatory inspections for domestic or foreign plants. The FDA, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug and medical device applications, which has delayed approvals of new products. Those delays have become longer, and may continue to increase in the future. These delays can result in higher levels of unapproved inventory and increased costs due to excess and obsolescence exposures. In addition, Hospira may incur additional costs in connection with new regulations covering user fees for generics, biosimilars or devices. Hospira and its collaborative partners and suppliers may not be able to remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other material regulatory requirements once it has obtained clearance or approval for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, off label marketing, advertising and postmarketing reporting, and adverse event reports and field alerts. In addition, manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off label uses or inadequate disclosure of product related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. Hospira and its partners or suppliers may be required by regulatory authorities, or determine on its own, to issue a safety alert, recall or temporarily cease production and sale of certain products to resolve manufacturing and product quality concerns. All of these events could harm Hospiras sales, margins and profitability in the affected periods and may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business. Hospira is also subject to various federal, state, and foreign laws pertaining to foreign corrupt practices and healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in national, federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs and health programs outside the U.S. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Hospira to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Hospiras business and result in a material adverse effect on Hospiras sales, profitability and financial condition. For a more detailed listing of the laws and regulations that significantly affect Hospiras business and operations, see the section captioned "Governmental Regulation and Other Matters" in "Item 1. 20 Table of Contents Business." Any adverse regulatory action, or action taken by Hospira to maintain appropriate regulatory compliance, with respect to these laws and regulations could disrupt Hospiras business and have a material adverse effect on its sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, an adverse regulatory action with respect to any Hospira product, operating procedure or manufacturing facility could materially harm Hospiras reputation in the marketplace. Proposed changes in FDA regulations or actions related to infusion pumps and medical devices may lead to increased costs and delays, which could negatively impact Hospiras business. In April 2010, the FDA issued a draft guidance document entitled "Total Product Life Cycle: Infusion Pump Premarket Notification [510(k)] Submissions." Through this draft guidance, the FDA has established additional pre market requirements for infusion pumps. The proposed guidance is subject to further revisions by the FDA, but the FDAs expectation is that the guidelines should be followed in the interim. At the same time, the FDA is also enhancing its pre market requirements for medical devices generally. Although Hospira cannot predict with certainty the future impact of these initiatives, it appears that the process for obtaining regulatory approvals to market infusion pumps and medical devices will become more costly and time consuming. In addition, the new requirements could result in longer delays for the approval of new products as well as remediation of existing products in the market. Future delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals could result in delayed or no realization of product revenues. Hospira may continue to acquire businesses and assets, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, form alliances, or dispose of businesses and assets, and any of these actions may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, or at all. As part of Hospiras business strategy, Hospira may continue to acquire other businesses and assets, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, form alliances, or dispose of businesses and assets, and any of these actions may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, or at all. Hospira also may pursue strategic alliances to expand its product offerings and geographic presence. Moreover, Hospira has entered into agreements with other companies to share in the manufacturing and development of certain biosimilar candidates. Hospira may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement, strategic alliance, or disposition. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with Hospira for opportunities. If Hospira is successful in securing certain opportunities, the products and technologies that Hospira acquires may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Hospira may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business. To finance acquisitions or other investments, Hospira has incurred, and may continue to incur or assume significant debt. This significant indebtedness may require Hospira to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to servicing its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments, and for general corporate purposes. In addition, this significant indebtedness may increase Hospiras vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates. In addition, this may limit Hospiras flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to its business and industry. Hospira may incur greater than expected costs in connection with these transactions if it encounters difficulties or issues not known to it at the time of entering into the transaction. In addition, Hospira may enter markets in which it has no or limited prior experience. Hospira could experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition related charges. Any of these negative effects could cause a downgrade of Hospiras credit rating, which would affect Hospiras ability to obtain new financing and negatively impact Hospiras cost of financing and credit. 21 Table of Contents The Company is increasingly dependent on its outsourcing and third party provider arrangements. Hospira is increasing its dependence on third party providers for certain services, including certain information technology, research and development, third party manufacturing, and finance and accounting outsourcing arrangements. The failure of these service providers to meet their obligations or the development of significant disagreements or other factors may materially disrupt Hospiras ongoing relationship with these providers or the services they provide, which could negatively affect operations. Challenging economic or business conditions could adversely affect our operations. The securities and credit markets have experienced volatility in the past, and in some cases, exerted negative pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain companies. Hospiras ability to access the credit and capital markets, and the related cost of borrowings, will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, the availability of credit and the strength of Hospiras credit rating. If Hospiras credit rating were to be downgraded for any reason, including the reasons described in this "Item 1A. Risk Factors," Hospiras cost of borrowing could increase, and Hospiras ability to obtain new financing could be negatively impacted. Lending institutions, including those associated with Hospiras $1.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in 2016, may suffer losses due to their lending and other financial relationships. As a result, lenders may become insolvent, which could affect the actual availability of credit under Hospiras revolving credit facility, or Hospiras ability to obtain other financing on equally favorable terms. Moreover, insurance companies and other financial institutions may suffer losses, which could affect the cost and availability of insurance coverage. If one or more of these events occurred, Hospiras liquidity may prove to be insufficient, cost of borrowing may increase and Hospiras financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Demand for Hospiras products may decrease due to adverse economic conditions, resulting in the loss of jobs or healthcare coverage, thereby affecting an individuals ability to pay for elective healthcare. Adverse economic conditions may also increase Hospiras customers cost containment efforts, and affect Hospiras customers solvency or their ability to obtain credit to finance their purchases of Hospiras products, which could reduce Hospiras revenue and cause a decrease in Hospiras profitability. These economic conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products. Acquisitions have increased Hospiras investment balances, intangible assets and goodwill balances, and a decline in the value of assets may adversely affect Hospiras financial position or results of operation. As a result of Hospiras acquisitions, intangible assets and goodwill have become significant. The values for these assets can be affected by factors, such as increased competition, development discontinuation, delay in regulatory approval, product quality, changes in business strategies, decline in stock price, and the impact of restructurings, disposition transactions, and business combinations. As a result of these factors or other events, Hospira has impaired goodwill and certain intangible assets and may further have to impair these assets or change estimated useful lives, which may have a material adverse effect on Hospiras financial position or results of operations. In addition, Hospira regularly reviews its investments, including equity and cost based investments, to determine when a significant event or change in circumstance has occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value of each investment. Hospira considers numerous factors, including factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry of the investee, and general equity market trends. Hospira also considers the length of time an investments market value has been below carrying value and the near term prospects for recovery to carrying value. Volatility in the global equity markets and other factors could adversely impact the fair value of Hospiras investments and, as a consequence, 22 Table of Contents could result in a charge for an other than temporary decline in value, which could have an adverse effect on Hospiras financial position and results of operations. The manufacture of Hospiras products is highly exacting and complex, and if Hospira or its suppliers encounter problems manufacturing, storing or distributing products, Hospiras business could suffer. The manufacture of Hospiras products and products Hospira produces for third parties is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements governing the manufacture of drugs and medical devices. Problems may arise during manufacturing, quality control, storage or distribution of Hospiras products and products Hospira manufactures for third parties for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, manufacturing quality concerns, or problems with raw materials, electromechanical, software and other components, supplier issues, and natural disaster related events or other environmental factors. If problems arise during the production, storage or distribution of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. Problems could also lead to increased costs, lost sales, damage to customer relations, failure to supply penalties, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, voluntary recalls, corrective actions or product liability related costs may also be incurred. Problems with respect to the manufacture, storage or distribution of its products could materially disrupt Hospiras business and harm its sales and profitability. Certain of Hospiras products are produced at a single manufacturing facility, and we face risks inherent in manufacturing our products at a single facility or a single site. Any disruption would likely lead to substantial production delays. If this occurs, we may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. During 2010 and 2011, Hospira temporarily shut down certain of its production lines or slowed the release of certain products to respond to certain quality issues, as described in the section captioned "Manufacturing" in "Item 1 Business." Such disruptions have adversely impacted, and continue to adversely impact, Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. If Hospira experiences any further significant interruptions of manufacturing or further slow down in the release of products at any of its facilities, such an interruption could further materially and adversely affect Hospiras ability to manufacture and sell its products. Hospira can experience higher costs to produce its products as a result of rising commodity prices. Hospira uses commodities, such as platinum, resins and other petroleum based materials as raw materials in many of its products. Prices of oil, fuel, and other gases also significantly affect Hospiras costs for freight and utilities. Platinum, oil, fuel, and other gas prices are volatile. If costs increase and Hospira is unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions or hedging activities, Hospira could experience lower margins and profitability. Hospira depends on third parties to supply raw materials and other components, and third party finished goods. Hospira may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which could limit Hospiras ability to manufacture or sell products on a timely basis and could harm its profitability. The manufacture of Hospiras products requires raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient and electromechanical and other components that must meet stringent FDA and other regulatory requirements. While efforts are made to diversify our sources of materials and components, some of these raw materials and other components are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, Hospira relies on certain proprietary components available exclusively from ICU Medical and active pharmaceutical ingredients from Orchid Chemical. For a more detailed description of those relationships, see the section captioned "Raw Materials and Components" in "Item 1. Business." 23 Table of Contents In addition, Hospira purchases from single sources certain compounding materials, polyvinyl chloride resin and laminate film components for Hospiras production of certain flexible bags that it uses with its I.V. and pre mixed solutions, as well as rubber components that it uses with some of its injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira also obtains from single sources certain active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. Identifying alternative suppliers and obtaining approval to change or substitute a raw material or component, or the supplier of a finished product, raw material or component, can be time consuming and expensive, as testing, validation and regulatory approval are necessary. While we work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In the past, Hospiras business has experienced shortages in some of the raw materials and components of its products. Continuous supply of petroleum based products is especially risky due to the limited number of capable suppliers, limited production capacity and the effect of natural disasters. If suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or if supply is otherwise disrupted, including by suppliers exiting the market, the manufacture and sale of Hospiras products may be disrupted, and its sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Hospiras continuous improvement activities have resulted, and may continue to result, in significant charges and cash expenditures. These activities may disrupt Hospiras business and may not result in the intended improvement or cost savings. Hospiras strategy, in part, has been to improve margins and cash flow to drive sustained growth. In addition to cost reduction initiatives, Hospira has taken various other actions to dispose of, or close, certain manufacturing, research and development, and other facilities. These actions have resulted in significant charges to Hospiras results of operations and cash expenditures. Hospira aims to achieve a culture of continuous improvement that will enhance its efficiency, effectiveness, and competitiveness and substantially improve its cost base. Continuous improvement activities could result in additional charges and cash expenditures, including capital expenditures and charges associated with Hospiras expansion in India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity. Furthermore, Hospira expects higher capital expenditures related to modernizing and streamlining its existing facilities. If Hospira does not realize the expected savings from its continuous improvement efforts, its profitability may be adversely affected. Cost reduction and continuous improvement activities are complex, and if Hospira does not successfully manage these activities, its operations and business could be disrupted and Hospira may incur more costs than anticipated. In connection with these activities, the companys failure to hire or retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that are critical to its business functions could adversely impact the execution of its business strategy. Hospiras manufacturing capacity could limit its ability to expand its business without significant capital investment. From time to time, Hospira may need to invest substantial capital resources to expand its manufacturing capacity if Hospira introduces new products, demand increases significantly for its products, or if it is successful in obtaining significant additional customers for its injectable pharmaceuticals contract manufacturing services business. In 2011, to ensure Hospiras manufacturing capacity aligns with expected future commercial growth and demand, Hospira began expansion in India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity. Hospira anticipates that the first commercial products will be released from this facility in 2014. Further, Hospira is taking steps over the next few years to prepare for facility modernization and streamlining at its existing manufacturing facilities. These 24 Table of Contents expansion and modernization efforts may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all, and Hospira may not realize the desired benefits of these efforts. As a result of cost reduction efforts over the last few years, Hospira has announced the closing of, or has sold, certain of its facilities. While Hospira believes it has available manufacturing capacity to absorb, or has had the ability to outsource, the production at these closed or sold facilities, there may be less available capacity at Hospiras facilities. If Hospira experiences an interruption in manufacturing at any of its primary manufacturing facilities, it may not be able to produce sufficient products for its customers. In some cases, the manufacturing of Hospiras products is concentrated in one or a few locations. Any significant interruption in Hospiras ability to manufacture products over an extended duration may result in delays in Hospiras ability to resume production of affected products or to begin production of new products, which may adversely impact our ability to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis. As a result, Hospira may suffer loss of market share, which may not be recaptured, and its reputation may be harmed, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Hospira experienced interruptions and a slow down in the release of products at certain of its manufacturing facilities for the reasons described in "Item 1. Quality Assurance." As a result, Hospiras sales, margins and profitability have been adversely impacted, and if further interruptions occur, Hospira may have further adverse impacts to its sales, margin and profitability. Hospira relies on the performance of its information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on Hospiras business and performance. Hospira operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure to manage our finances, and to manufacture, enable compliance and to market and sell our products. These systems are vulnerable to interruption or failure due to the age of certain of our systems, viruses, malware, security breaches, fire, power loss, system malfunction and other events, which may be beyond Hospiras control. Systems interruptions or failures could reduce Hospiras ability to manufacture its products or continue its business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras operations and financial performance. In addition, a cyber attack that bypasses our information technology security systems causing a security breach may lead to a material disruption of our information technology business systems and or the loss of business information resulting in an adverse business impact. The age of Hospiras information technology systems, as well as the level of Hospiras protection and business continuity or disaster recovery capability, varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. Hospiras capital investment levels in its information technology systems will increase over the next few years as Hospira expects to replace certain old, fully depreciated systems. Hospira conducts operations outside of the U.S. and is subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, that may cause its sales and profitability to decline. Sales in markets outside the U.S. comprised approximately 30% of 2011 net sales. Hospira anticipates that sales from outside the U.S. will continue to represent a significant portion of net sales. The additional risks associated with Hospiras operations outside the U.S. include: (i)fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (for a discussion of the ways and extent to which Hospira attempts to mitigate such risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."); (ii)multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change, which may delay or deter Hospiras international product commercialization efforts; 25 Table of Contents (iii)differing local medical practices, product preferences and product requirements, or changing government reimbursement practices; (iv)trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other controls or restrictions; (v)difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations outside the U.S.; (vi)differing labor regulations or work stoppages or strikes at Hospiras union facilities; (vii)complying with U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the U.S. FCPA, and anti boycott laws, and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010; (viii)loss of business through government tenders that are held annually in many cases; (ix)potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws, including legislative changes concerning taxation of income earned outside of the U.S.; (x)political and economic instability, including the European financial crisis or other economic instability in other parts of the world and the impact on Hospiras receivables; (xi)disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic area, due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers, caused by natural or man made disasters or other causes; and (xii)diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S. In addition, Hospira operates in many countries outside the U.S. through distributors. Its success will depend on the efforts and performance of such distributors, which are beyond Hospiras control. While Hospira has programs in place to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations impacting Hospira and its distributors, if it were determined that a distributor was not in compliance with certain laws and regulations, Hospira could be subject to civil and or criminal liability and other material adverse effects. Moreover, if certain of those distributor relationships are unsuccessful, the costs to terminate such distributor relationship and or to re establish a customer base could adversely affect Hospiras profitability in certain regions. These risks could have an adverse effect on Hospiras ability to distribute and sell its products in markets outside the U.S. and could adversely affect Hospiras profitability. Hospira is involved in various lawsuits and proceedings that could negatively affect its business. Hospira is involved in various claims and legal proceedings, as well as product liability claims and proceedings related to Hospiras business, including in some instances when Hospira operated as part of Abbott. In some instances, these claims and proceedings could preclude the continued sale and marketing of Hospiras products or otherwise adversely affect operations, profitability or liquidity. In addition, Hospira has been named as a defendant in class action lawsuits and shareholder derivative lawsuits. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" for more information regarding these lawsuits. These matters could have an adverse effect on Hospiras business, profitability or financial condition. In addition, there could be an increase in scope of these matters and there could be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future. In light of these uncertainties, we cannot assure that the outcome of these matters will not result in charges in excess of any established accruals. In the past, Hospira has been involved in investigations related to improper marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products. Hospira could be subject to these investigations or lawsuits again in the future, and these matters could have an adverse impact on Hospira. 26 Table of Contents Hospira may incur product liability losses and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. Hospiras business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of drugs, medical devices and other products. In the ordinary course of business, Hospira is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits, safety alerts, recalls or corrective actions, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Hospira is responsible for all liabilities, including liabilities for claims and lawsuits, related to its business, whether they arose before or after the spin off, other than certain liabilities relating to allegations that it engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices in connection with federal, state or private reimbursement for its products. As part of Hospiras risk management policy, Hospira carries third party product liability insurance coverage, which includes a substantial retention or deductible which provides that Hospira will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of that retention or deductible. To the extent that any losses are within these retentions or deductibles, Hospira will be responsible for the administration and payment of these losses. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. If Hospira is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its business and prospects could be harmed. Hospira relies on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, continuing technological innovation and, in some cases, patent, trademark and service mark protection to preserve its competitive position. A failure to protect Hospiras intellectual property could harm its business and prospects, and its efforts to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate. Principal products and their related trademarks are discussed in the section captioned "Products" in "Item 1. Business," and the patents related to PrecedexTM, which represents approximately 6% of Hospiras net sales and is licensed to Hospira in the Americas and APAC segments, and in the Middle East and Africa, are discussed in the section captioned "Patents, Trademarks, and other Intellectual Property" in "Item 1.Business" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." In the Americas, Precedex represents approximately 10% of specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line net sales. Most of Hospiras products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights, and have limited or no market exclusivity. Patent filings by third parties could render Hospiras intellectual property less valuable. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in certain countries outside the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also harm sales of Hospiras products by designing products that mirror the capabilities of those products or technology without infringing Hospiras intellectual property rights. If Hospira does not obtain or maintain sufficient protection for its intellectual property, Hospiras competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit its growth and future sales. If Hospira infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties, Hospira may face legal action, increased costs and delays in marketing new products. Hospira seeks to launch generic pharmaceutical products either where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid or where products do not infringe the patents of others. To achieve a "first to market" position for generic pharmaceutical products, Hospira may take action, such as litigation, to seek to assert that its products do not infringe 27 Table of Contents patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. These actions and litigation could be costly and time consuming, and may not be successful. Hospira has made certain abbreviated new drug applications ("ANDA") with Paragraph IV certifications that the relevant patents for existing products would not be infringed by a Hospira product, or were invalid or unenforceable, in the U.S. and equivalent filings in Canada. Claims filed by innovators contesting these certifications may delay or prevent the launch of the relevant products and result in additional costs. Hospira is currently involved in patent related disputes with companies over Hospiras attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products. Once Hospira has final approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals, Hospira may decide to commercially market these products while the ultimate disposition of legal proceedings has not concluded. For example in 2011, Hospira received final FDA approval in the U.S. and launched an oncolytic drug docetaxel (a generic version of Sanofi Aventis Taxotere&reg;) that is the subject of ongoing patent litigation. If Hospiras products are ultimately found to infringe the patent rights of another company, Hospira may be subject to significant damages, which may be based on a reasonable royalty or the lost profits from the sale of the branded product and or an injunction preventing Hospira from further sales. For further detail related to Hospiras patent related litigation, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Third parties may claim that Hospiras products are infringing their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could be costly and time consuming and might require Hospira to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, if Hospira is able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms. Hospira also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing it from manufacturing, selling or using some of its products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on Hospiras profitability and financial condition. Changes in the funded status or costs of Hospiras pension or post retirement benefit plans could adversely affect Hospiras financial position and results of operations. The funded status of Hospiras pension and post retirement benefit plans is subject to developments and changes in actuarial and other related assumptions. Decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly with respect to equity securities, and a change in the actual rate of return on plan assets can result in significant changes to the expected return on plan assets in the following year and, as a consequence, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. In addition, changes in assumptions, such as discount rates, mortality rates, healthcare cost trend rates and other factors, may lead to significant increases in the value of the respective obligations. Assumption changes could affect the reported funded status of Hospiras plans and, as a result, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on Hospiras financial position and results of operations. Income taxes can have an unpredictable effect on Hospiras results of operations and result in greater than anticipated liabilities. Hospira is subject to income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions, and its tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. Because Hospiras income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions during that period, which is inherently uncertain, its income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted. Moreover, changes in or interpretations of tax laws and regulations (including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings), changes in investments in foreign countries with favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state and foreign tax audits, may affect Hospiras profitability and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Hospira is the beneficiary of tax exemptions in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S., where a portion of its income is earned. These tax exemptions have a significant impact on reducing Hospiras overall effective tax rate. If Hospira is unable to maintain these tax exemptions, Hospiras future profitability may be reduced. Changes in laws or governmental policies can affect the availability of these exemptions. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospiras belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, positions taken by Hospira are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authoritys determination of the positions. Although Hospira believes its tax provisions and related liability balances are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect its financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. The stock market can be volatile and fluctuations in Hospiras operating results, as well as other factors, could cause its stock price to decline. During the past few years, the stock market has experienced fluctuations, which has significantly impacted the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Market fluctuations could adversely affect Hospiras stock price. Moreover, Hospiras sales and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter due to the risk factors set forth herein. Hospiras stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to its quarterly results and the impact of these risk factors on Hospiras operating results or financial position.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.  Item 2. Properties Manufacturing and R&D. Hospiras corporate headquarters and the locations and uses of Hospiras principal manufacturing and research and development ("R&D") properties as of December 31, 2011, are as follows: Location* Primary Use Owned/Leased Adelaide, South Australia, Australia R&D Owned Austin, Texas Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned Buffalo, New York Device Manufacturing Owned Boulder, Colorado Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient Manufacturing and R&D Leased (expires 2016) Clayton, North Carolina Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned Finisklin, Sligo, Ireland Device Manufacturing Leased (expires 2013) Irungattukottai, India** Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned/Leased (expires 2102) La Aurora, Costa Rica Device Manufacturing Owned Lake Forest, Illinois** Corporate Headquarters and R&D Owned/Leased (expires 2016) Liscate, Italy Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned McPherson, Kansas Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned Mulgrave, Victoria, Australia Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and R&D Owned Rocky Mount, North Carolina Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Owned San Cristobal, Dominican Republic** Device Manufacturing Owned/Leased (expires 2013) San Diego, California R&D Leased (expires 2019) *The locations listed above generally support all of Hospiras segments. **The Irungattukottai, India, San Cristobal, Dominican Republic and Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S. locations include both owned and leased facilities. 29  Table of Contents Certain of Hospiras regional headquarters are leased properties, which are located in Royal Leamington Spa, United Kingdom, for Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Melbourne, Australia, for Asia Pacific ("APAC"). Hospira has an unconsolidated joint venture with Cadila Healthcare Limited ("Cadila"), a pharmaceutical company located in Ahmedabad, Gujarat State, India. The joint venture, Zydus Hospira Oncology Private Limited ("ZHOPL") operates a manufacturing facility in a special economic zone outside of Ahmedabad, India, that has been inspected and approved by the United Kingdoms Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and the FDA. Under the joint venture agreement, the facility manufactures a number of cytotoxic drugs for sale by both Hospira and Cadila in their respective territories with Hospira holding exclusive rights in almost all major markets including the United States, Canada, the European Union and other western European countries, the Middle East, and countries within the Asia Pacific region. Distribution. Hospira also owns and operates distribution facilities in the U.S. located in Stone Mountain, Georgia; Farmers Branch, Texas; King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; and Santa Fe Springs, California. Hospira also leases and operates distribution facilities at Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin and Wallington, United Kingdom. Hospira continually evaluates its plants and production lines and believes that its current facilities, plus any planned expansions and modernization initiatives, will be generally sufficient to meet its expected needs. In 2011, to ensure Hospiras manufacturing capacity aligns with expected future commercial growth and demand, Hospira began expansion in Vizag, India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity utilizing long term land leases acquired in 2010. Hospira anticipates that the first commercial products will be released from this facility in 2014. Further, Hospira expects higher capital expenditures related to modernization and streamlining at its existing facilities over the next few years.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information on our legal proceedings is included in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," in this Form 10 K.  Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable Executive Officers of Hospira The executive officers of Hospira are set forth below. Their ages as of February 14, 2012, and the positions and offices held by them during the past five years are also indicated. There are no family relationships between any corporate officers or directors. All executive officers hold office until the next annual election of officers and until their respective successors are elected and qualified, unless sooner removed. F. Michael Ball, age 56, joined Hospira as its Chief Executive Officer and as a director on March 28, 2011. Mr. Ball joined Hospira after a 16 year career at Allergan, Inc., a multi specialty healthcare company, where he held several senior leadership positions. For the five years prior to joining Hospira, Mr. Ball served as President of Allergan. Mr. Ball also serves on the board of directors of STEC, Inc., a publicly traded manufacturer and marketer of computer memory and hard drive storage solutions. Richard Davies, age 50, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer, effective February 2, 2012. From August 2011 to February 2012, Mr. Davies served as Vice President and General Manager, Japan and Asia Pacific at Amgen (a developer and manufacturer of human 30 Table of Contents therapeutics). During the past five years, Mr. Davies also held the following positions at Amgen: Vice President and General Manager, Asia and Latin America (November 2010 to August 2011), Vice President, Sales Inflammation Business Unit (January 2009 to November 2010), and General Manager, Australia (throughout 2007 and 2008). Francois (Frans) L. Dubois, age 58, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Quality. Mr. Dubois has served in that position since January 2011. Mr. Dubois served as the Vice President of Quality for Tengion, Inc. (a regenerative medicine company) from 2009 to 2010. From 2008 to 2009, Mr. Dubois was Vice President of Global External Manufacturing and Supplier Quality Operations at Global Pharmaceutical Supply Group (a fully owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, a global pharmaceutical, medical device and consumer packaged goods manufacturer). During 2007 and 2008, Mr. Dubois was Vice President, Worldwide Quality at Global Biologics Supply Chain (a fully owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson). James H. Hardy, Jr., age 52, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Operations. Mr. Hardy has served in that position since January 2011. Mr. Hardy was Hospiras Corporate Vice President, Supply Chain, from 2009 to 2010. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Hardy served as the Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, at Dial Corporation (a maker of personal care and household cleaning products). Also in 2007, he served as the Executive Vice President, Product Supply at ConAgra Foods, Inc. (a packaged foods company). Daphne E. Jones, age 54, is Hospiras Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Ms. Jones has served in that position since November 2009. Ms. Jones served as the Worldwide Vice President of Information Technology ("IT") and Chief Information Officer for Johnson & Johnsons Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (a Johnson & Johnson company that provides solutions for screening, diagnosing, monitoring and confirming diseases early) from 2007 to 2009. Kenneth F. Meyers, age 50, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Organizational Transformation and People Development. Mr. Meyers has served in that position since November 2008. In 2007 and 2008, Mr. Meyers served as a partner of Oliver Wyman Delta Executive Learning Center (a global management consulting firm). Sumant Ramachandra, M.D., Ph.D., age 43, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Medical and Regulatory Affairs and Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Ramachandra has served in that position since July 2008. Dr. Ramachandra served as Vice President and Senior Project Leader, Global Development, at Schering Plough, a global healthcare company, in 2007 and 2008. Brian J. Smith, age 60, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He has served in that position during the past five years. Thomas E. Werner, age 54, is Hospiras Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. He has served in that position during the past five years. Richard J. Hoffman, age 45, is Hospiras Corporate Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. He has served in such position since August 2009. From August 2007 to August 2009, he served as Hospiras Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Also, in 2007, Mr. Hoffman served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at CNH Global N.V. (Case New Holland a global agricultural and construction equipment manufacturer). 31  Table of Contents  PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Common Stock Hospiras common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "HSP." The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for Hospiras common stock on the NYSE for each period indicated. Market Price Per Share 2011 2010 For the quarter ended: High Low High Low March 31 $ 56.80 $ 51.05 $ 57.38 $ 48.56 June 30 $ 58.13 $ 53.74 $ 57.97 $ 50.11 September 30 $ 55.67 $ 34.44 $ 59.75 $ 50.26 December 31 $ 38.76 $ 27.29 $ 59.65 $ 54.83 As of February 8, 2012, Hospira had approximately 29,954 shareholders of record. Hospira has not paid any dividends on its common stock. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Hospira of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(1)(2) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(2) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(2) October 1 October 31, 2011 1,600 $ 30.10 $ 800,000,000 November 1 November 30, 2011 3,000 31.14 800,000,000 December 1 December 31, 2011 3,000 29.28 800,000,000 Total 7,600 $ 30.19 $ 800,000,000 (1)In addition to the shares purchased as part of the publicly announced Plan, these shares represent the shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the Hospira Healthcare Corporation ("Hospira Canada") Stock Purchase Plan 1,600 in October, 3,000 in both November and December. (2)In April 2011, Hospiras Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of Hospiras common stock. In April and May 2011, Hospira entered into accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") contracts with a third party financial institution to repurchase $200.0 million in aggregate of Hospiras common stock. Under the ASR contracts, Hospira received 3.7 million shares. Hospira from time to time may repurchase additional shares under this authorization the timing of which will depend on various factors such as cash generation from operations, cash expenditures required for other purposes, current stock price and other factors. 32 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares the performance of Hospira common stock for the periods indicated with the performance of the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Health Care Index.  Comparison of Cumulative Total Return Assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2006 in Hospira common stock and each index. Values are as of the close of the U.S. stock markets on December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and assume dividends are reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared or paid on Hospira common stock. Returns over the indicated period may not be indicative of future returns. 33 Table of Contents  Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following tables set forth Hospiras selected financial information derived from its audited consolidated financial statements as of, and for the years ended, December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007. The selected financial information should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Hospiras audited financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." For the Years Ended December 31, (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 4,057.1 $ 3,917.2 $ 3,879.3 $ 3,629.5 $ 3,436.2 Gross profit(1) 1,397.6 1,514.4 1,456.4 1,342.7 1,195.7 Income from operations(2)(3) 56.8 519.2 502.9 517.8 302.6 (Loss) Income before income taxes(2)(3) (27.1 ) 379.3 384.1 407.5 187.8 Net (Loss) Income(2)(3)(4) $ (9.4 ) $ 357.2 $ 403.9 $ 320.9 $ 136.8 (Loss) Earnings per common share: Basic $ (0.06 ) $ 2.15 $ 2.51 $ 2.02 $ 0.87 Diluted $ (0.06 ) $ 2.11 $ 2.47 $ 1.99 $ 0.85 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 165.5 166.0 161.0 159.2 156.9 Diluted 165.5 169.5 163.2 161.3 160.2 (1)Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. (2)Amounts include goodwill impairment charges of $400.2 million in 2011. (3)Amounts include acquired in process research and development charges of $0.5 million and $88.0 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4)Amounts include Equity income from affiliates of $45.6 million and $12.2 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Equity income from affiliates was not significant for years prior to 2010. Additionally, amounts include discrete income tax benefits of $19.7 million and $91.9 million in 2011 and 2009, respectively, due to Internal Revenue Service audit settlements. December 31, (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 5,779.1 $ 6,046.3 $ 5,502.9 $ 5,074.1 $ 5,084.7 Long term debt $ 1,711.9 $ 1,714.4 $ 1,707.3 $ 1,834.0 $ 2,184.4 34  Table of Contents  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies that develops, manufactures, distributes and markets products. Through a broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance WellnessTM by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. Hospiras portfolio includes generic acute care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management products. Hospiras portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home health care providers and long term care facilities. Product Development and Product Launches Hospiras product development programs are concentrated in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management. Hospira manages these product development programs and related costs through the following four categories: generic pharmaceuticals, biosimilars, proprietary pharmaceuticals and device products. For further information about these categories see the section captioned "Product Development" in "Item I. Business" and for information related to certain of Hospiras collaborative agreements for biosimilars and proprietary pharmaceuticals see Note 4 to the financial statements in "
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Hospiras audited financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." For the Years Ended December 31, (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 4,057.1 $ 3,917.2 $ 3,879.3 $ 3,629.5 $ 3,436.2 Gross profit(1) 1,397.6 1,514.4 1,456.4 1,342.7 1,195.7 Income from operations(2)(3) 56.8 519.2 502.9 517.8 302.6 (Loss) Income before income taxes(2)(3) (27.1 ) 379.3 384.1 407.5 187.8 Net (Loss) Income(2)(3)(4) $ (9.4 ) $ 357.2 $ 403.9 $ 320.9 $ 136.8 (Loss) Earnings per common share: Basic $ (0.06 ) $ 2.15 $ 2.51 $ 2.02 $ 0.87 Diluted $ (0.06 ) $ 2.11 $ 2.47 $ 1.99 $ 0.85 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 165.5 166.0 161.0 159.2 156.9 Diluted 165.5 169.5 163.2 161.3 160.2 (1)Gross profit is defined as Net sales less Cost of products sold. (2)Amounts include goodwill impairment charges of $400.2 million in 2011. (3)Amounts include acquired in process research and development charges of $0.5 million and $88.0 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4)Amounts include Equity income from affiliates of $45.6 million and $12.2 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Equity income from affiliates was not significant for years prior to 2010. Additionally, amounts include discrete income tax benefits of $19.7 million and $91.9 million in 2011 and 2009, respectively, due to Internal Revenue Service audit settlements. December 31, (dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 5,779.1 $ 6,046.3 $ 5,502.9 $ 5,074.1 $ 5,084.7 Long term debt $ 1,711.9 $ 1,714.4 $ 1,707.3 $ 1,834.0 $ 2,184.4 34  Table of Contents  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Hospira is a global provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies that develops, manufactures, distributes and markets products. Through a broad, integrated portfolio, Hospira is uniquely positioned to Advance WellnessTM by improving patient and caregiver safety while reducing healthcare costs. Hospiras portfolio includes generic acute care and oncology injectables, as well as integrated infusion therapy and medication management products. Hospiras portfolio of products is used by hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home health care providers and long term care facilities. Product Development and Product Launches Hospiras product development programs are concentrated in the areas of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals and medication management. Hospira manages these product development programs and related costs through the following four categories: generic pharmaceuticals, biosimilars, proprietary pharmaceuticals and device products. For further information about these categories see the section captioned "Product Development" in "Item I. Business" and for information related to certain of Hospiras collaborative agreements for biosimilars and proprietary pharmaceuticals see Note 4 to the financial statements in "
 
