FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20030702162506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
[AGL Resources logo]
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Media Contact:
Steve Cave
Director, Investor Relations
(404) 584-3801
Nick Gold
Director, Community Affairs
(404) 584-3457
ATLANTA, July 2, 2003  AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG) announced today that Bryan E. Seas will join the company on July 7 as vice president and controller.  He will report directly to Richard T. O'Brien, executive vice president and chief financial officer of AGL Resources.
Seas will lead the company's accounting, budgeting and financial reporting functions, and will be responsible for ensuring that internal accounting systems support the company's operations and initiatives.  He also will be responsible for optimizing financial tracking and reporting systems, and developing enhanced financial budgeting and forecasting capabilities within the organization.
Before joining AGL Resources, Seas was Vice President and Controller of the Global Power division of El Paso Corporation.  In that role, he was responsible for accounting, financial reporting, budgeting and forecasting for a division with approximately $5 billion in domestic and international assets.
"Bryan brings a wealth of financial and energy industry experience and a strong track record of success to AGL Resources," said O'Brien.  "We have made tremendous progress in improving our financial accounting and reporting systems and capabilities, and Bryan will play a key leadership role in further enhancing those systems."
 
Seas is a graduate of The Ohio State University, where he earned a bachelor of science degree in business administration, with a concentration in accounting.  He also is a Certified Public Accountant.
AGL Resources
AGL Resources Inc. is an Atlanta-based energy services holding company. Its utility subsidiaries  Atlanta Gas Light Company, Virginia Natural Gas and Chattanooga Gas Company  serve approximately 1.9 million customers in three states. Houston-based subsidiary Sequent Energy Management provides natural gas asset management services, including the wholesale marketing and transportation of natural gas. As a member of the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. AGL Networks, the company's telecommunications subsidiary, owns and operates fiber - optic network s in Atlanta and Phoenix. For more information, visit the company's Web site at www.aglresources.com.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


