FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20041201150029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.01. 
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
.
On November 30, 2004, Cougar Corporation ("Cougar"), a wholly owned subsidiary of AGL Resources Inc. (the "Company"), merged with and into NUI Corporation ("NUI"), with NUI continuing as the surviving corporation under the laws of the State of New Jersey (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the Merger, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of NUI for $13.70 per share in cash, or approximately $218 million in the aggregate based on approximately 16 million shares currently outstanding, and the assumption of NUI's outstanding debt at closing. At closing, NUI had $700 million in debt and approximately $105 million of cash on its balance sheet (including the return of an interest escrow balance amount), bringing the net value of the Merger to approximately $813 million. The purchase price was funded by AGL Resources&n bsp;through the issuance of its common stock, which was completed on November 24, 2004, and proceeds from short-term debt. The Company has issued a press release announcing the completion of the Merger, a copy of which is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
The Merger was effected pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among the Company, Cougar and NUI, dated as of July 14, 2004 (the "Merger Agreement"). The Merger Agreement was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 15, 2004. The descriptions contained herein of the Merger, as contemplated by the Merger Agreement, are not complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement and the press release described above, each of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
 
(a)
   
Financial Statements of Business Acquired
 
The Company will file the financial statements required by Item
9.01(a)
of Form 8-K by an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K
in accordance with the applicable regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
.
 
(b)  Pro Forma Financial Information
   
 
The Company will file the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K by an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K in accordance with the applicable regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
(c)  Exhibits
   
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

News Release
Exhibit 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
 
contact:
 
Financial
Steve Cave
404 584 3801 (office)
678 642 4258 (cell)
scave@aglresources.com
Media
Nick Gold
404 584 3457 (office)
404 275 9501 (cell)
ngold@aglresources.com
ATLANTA, Ga.  Nov. 30, 2004 AGL Resources Inc. (NYSE:ATG) announced today that it has completed its acquisition of New Jersey-based NUI Corp. for $13.70 per share in cash and the assumption of NUI's debt at closing.
AGL Resources assumes the operations of NUI's four utilities in New Jersey, Florida, Maryland and Virginia as well as a salt storage facility in Virginia. With the acquisition, AGL Resources becomes the preeminent distributor of natural gas on the East Coast, serving 2.2 million customers in six states.
One NUI utility, City Gas of Florida, will be renamed Florida City Gas to be more consistent with names of AGL Resources' other utility operations.
On Nov. 24, AGL Resources completed its public offering of 11,040,000 shares of its common stock, raising approximately $332 million to purchase the outstanding capital stock of NUI and to fund other projects. Following this offering, the company's market capitalization is now approximately $2.5 billion.
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG) is an Atlanta-based energy services holding company and was named 2003 Gas Company of the Year by Platts Global Energy Awards.  The company's utility subsidiaries - Atlanta Gas Light, Elizabethtown Gas in New Jersey, Virginia Natural Gas in Norfolk, Florida City Gas, Chattanooga Gas, and Elkton Gas in Maryland - serve 2.2 million customers in six states.  Houston-based subsidiary Sequent Energy Management is involved in
natural gas asset management and optimization, producer services, wholesale marketing and risk management activities.  As a member of the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand.  AGL Networks, the company's telecommunications subsidiary, owns and operates fiber optic networks in Atlanta and Phoenix.  The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana, and Virginia Gas, a natural gas storage pipeline and distribution company in southwestern Virginia and a high-deliverability salt cavern storage facility in Saltville, Va.  For more information, visit .            
www.aglresources.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Company management cautions readers that the assumptions which form the basis for the forward-looking statements include many factors that are beyond management's ability to control or estimate precisely. Those factors include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in industrial, commercial, and residential growth in the company's service territories and those of the company's subsidiaries; changes in price and demand for natural gas and related products; impact of changes in state and federal legislation and regulation, including various orders of the state public service commissions and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, on the gas and electric industries and on the company, including the impact of Atlanta Gas Light's performance based rate pl an; effects and uncertainties of deregulation and competition, particularly in markets where prices and providers historically have been regulated, unknown risks related to nonregulated businesses, and unknown issues such as the stability of certificated marketers; impact of Georgia's Natural Gas Consumers' Relief Act of 2002; concentration of credit risk in certificated marketers and the company's wholesale services segment's counterparties; excess network capacity and demand/growth for dark fiber in metro network areas of AGL Networks' customers; AGL Networks' introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products, as well as the adoption of new networking standards; ability of AGL Networks to produce sufficient capital to fund its business; ability to negotiate new contracts with telecommunications providers for the provision of AGL Networks' dark-fiber services; industry consolidation; performance of equity and bond markets and the impact on pension and postretirement funding costs; changes in accounting policies and practices issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; the enactment of new auditing standards, or interpretations of existing auditing standards, by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board which could adversely affect our ability to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; direct or indirect effects on the company's business, financial condition or liquidity resulting from a change in the company's credit ratings or the credit ratings of the company's competitors or counterparties; interest rate fluctuations, financial market conditions, and general economic conditions; uncertainties about environmental issues and the related impact of such issues; impact of changes in weather upon the temperature-sensitive portions of the company's business; impact of litigation; impact of changes in prices on the margins achievable in the unregulated retail gas marketing business; impact of acquisitions and divestitures, including (1) the risk that our business and the businesses of NUI Corporation (NUI) and Jefferson Island Storage & Hub L.L.C. will not be integrated successfully or such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected, (2) expected revenue synergies and cost savings from the acquisitions may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame, (3) revenues following the acquisitions may be lower than expected, (4) the ability to obtain governmental approvals of the NUI acquisition, or on the proposed terms and schedule, (5) the risk that AGL Resources may be unable to obtain financing necessary to consummate the acquisition of NUI, or that the terms of such financing may be onerous, and (6) the risk that any financing plan may have the effect of diluting shareholder value in the near term; and other risks described in the company's documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


