FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20041216110556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 1, 2004, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase in the meeting fees for the Board of Directors. The meeting fee for non-employee directors increased from $1,000 to $2,000 for attendance at each meeting of the Board and any committee of the board. The increase became retroactively effective to include a Board committee meeting that took place on November 17, 2004. Directors who are employees of the Company continue to receive no separate compensation for attendance at Board and committee meetings.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
General
A director who is one of our employees receives no additional compensation for his or her services as a director or as a member of a committee of the board. A director who is not one of our employees receives compensation for his or her services as described in the following paragraphs. All directors are reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in connection with attendance at board and committee meetings.
Initial Stock Award
Following initial election to the board, each non-employee director receives 1,000 shares of AGL Resources common stock on the first day of board service.
Annual Retainer
Each non-employee director receives on the first day of each annual service term (i) $30,000 payable, at the election of each director, in cash, shares of AGL Resources common stock or deferred under the 1998 Common Stock Equivalent Plan for Non-Employee Directors, which we refer to as the "CSE Plan" and (ii) $30,000 payable, at the election of each director, in shares of AGL Resources common stock or deferred under the CSE Plan.
Amounts deferred under the CSE Plan are invested in common stock equivalents that track the performance of AGL Resources common stock and are credited with equivalents to dividend payments that are made on AGL Resources common stock. At the end of their board service, participating directors receive a cash distribution based on the market value of their common stock equivalents and dividend equivalents.
Meeting Fees
Each non-employee director receives $2,000 for attendance at each meeting of the board and any committee of the board of which he or she is a member.
Meeting fees may be paid in cash or, at the election of a director, may be deferred under the CSE Plan. As noted above, under the CSE Plan, deferred meeting fees are invested in common stock equivalents that track the performance of AGL Resources common stock and are credited with dividend payments. At the end of their board service, participating directors receive a cash distribution based on the market value of their common stock equivalents and dividends.


