FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20041129081747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
News Release
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
date: 
Nov. 24, 2004
 
 
contact:
 
Financial
Steve Cave
Director, Investor Relations
404 584 3801
 
Media
Nick Gold
Director, Media Relations
404 584 3457 or 404 275 9501
 
Eric Martinez, formerly senior vice president at AGL Resources division, Pivotal Energy Development, will report to Linginfelter and will become vice president and general manager of Elizabethtown Gas. Charles Rawson, formerly managing director, wholesale services, at Atlanta Gas Light, will report to Sitherwood as vice president and general manager, City Gas of Florida.
Three Atlanta Gas Light region managers will assume duties in the NUI franchise areas as AGL Resources seeks to unify and improve operational efficiencies across the company. Eddie V. Wood and Don Carter will assume responsibilities at Elizabethtown Gas, while Eduardo Noriega will take on duties at City Gas of Florida.
Beth Reese will become vice president, customer service, and Scott Carter is newly appointed as vice president, regulatory affairs. Jodi Gidley succeeds Sitherwood as vice president of gas operations and capacity planning. Patricia Keefe, who was vice president at Elizabethtown Gas, will join the AGL Resources regulatory affairs organization.
Other recent appointments at AGL Resources include Melanie Platt, who became senior vice president of human resources and chairman of the AGL Resources Foundation. In addition, Ralph Cleveland will serve as senior vice president, engineering and operations while Bryan Batson will become senior vice president, regulatory affairs and customer service.
Myra Coleman has been named executive director of corporate governance and securities counsel. John Ebert was named executive vice president of Pivotal Energy Development, and Dat T. Tran will become chief counsel for regulatory affairs.
NUI's shareholders overwhelmingly approved the AGL Resources acquisition on Oct. 21, 2004. On Nov. 15, AGL Resources made a public offering of 11,044,000 shares of its common stock. The net proceeds from the offering of approximately $332 million will be used to purchase the outstanding capital stock of NUI and to fund AGL Resources' recently completed purchase of Louisiana-based Jefferson Island Storage & Hub LLC. The remaining net proceeds will be used to repay short-term debt and for general corporate purposes. 
 
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG) is an Atlanta-based energy services holding company and was named 2003 Gas Company of the Year by Platts Global Energy Awards. Its utility subsidiaries - Atlanta Gas Light, Virginia Natural Gas and Chattanooga Gas - serve approximately 1.8 million customers in three states. Houston-based subsidiary Sequent Energy Management provides natural gas asset management, producer, storage and hub services. As a member of the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. AGL Networks, the company's telecommunications subsidiary, owns and operates fiber optic networks in Atlanta and Phoenix. The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub, Louis iana. For more information, visit .
www.aglresources.com
 
Photographs of senior vice presidents Hank Linginfelter and Suzanne Sitherwood as well as the other AGL Resources executives are available upon request. Please contact Martha Woodham at 404.584.3054 or mwoodham@aglresources.com.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


