FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20041115120331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
contact:
   
 
 
Financial
 
Steve Cave
Director, Investor Relations
404 584 3801
 
Media
 
Nick Gold
Director, Media Relations
404 584 3457 or 404 275 9501
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)Nov. 15, 2004  AGL Resources Inc. (NYSE: ATG) today announced its plans to make a public offering of 9,600,000 shares of its common stock. The offering will be made under the company's shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The underwriters will be granted an option by the company to purchase up to an additional 1,440,000 shares to cover over-allotments, if any.
 
AGL Resources intends to use approximately $220 million of the net proceeds to purchase the outstanding capital stock of New Jersey-based NUI Corporation. AGL Resources announced its intention to acquire NUI Corporation on July 15, 2004. AGL Resources intends to use remaining net proceeds to repay short-term debt and for general corporate purposes.
 
J. P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated will serve as joint book-running managers for the offering.
 
This news release does not constitute an offer to sell any securities under the offering. The offering of the shares of common stock may be made only by means of a prospectus. Copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement may be obtained from the offices of J. P. Morgan Securities Inc., Chase Distribution & Support Service, 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, Floor 5B, New York, NY 10081, or Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Prospectus Department, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036, and are available on the Internet at
www.sec.gov
or under the "SEC Filings" subsection of the "Investor Information" section of the AGL Resources website,
www.aglresources.com
.
 
 
 
About AGL Resources
 
AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG) is an Atlanta-based energy services holding company and was named 2003 Gas Company of the Year by Platts Global Energy Awards. Its utility subsidiaries - Atlanta Gas Light, Virginia Natural Gas and Chattanooga Gas - serve approximately 1.8 million customers in three states. Houston-based subsidiary Sequent Energy Management provides natural gas asset management, producer, storage and hub services. As a member of the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. AGL Networks, the company's telecommunications subsidiary, owns and operates fiber optic networks in Atlanta and Phoenix. The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub, Louis iana. For more information, visit
www.aglresources.com
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain statements included or incorporated by reference in this press release and the prospectus supplement reflect assumptions and expectations about future events. These statements, which may relate to such matters as future earnings, growth, supply and demand, costs, subsidiary performance, new technologies and strategic initiatives, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, and you can identify certain of these statements, but not necessarily all, by the use of the words "anticipate," "assume," "indicate," "estimate," "believe," "predict," "forecast," "rely," "expect," "continue," "grow" and other words of similar meaning. Although we believe that the assumptions and expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable in view of the information currently available, there can be no assurance that these assumptions and expectations will prove to be correct. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. In addition to the specific factors discussed in our reports that are incorporated by reference, the following are among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of such important factors.
New factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those described above emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all such factors, or the extent to which any such factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update the information contained in such statement to reflect subsequent developments or information except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


