FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20041028105814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
Item 5.02. D
   
eparture of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment Of
Principal Officers
 
 
 
On October 26, 2004, Bettina M. Whyte was appointed to the AGL Resources Inc. Board of Directors. Her term will expire at the 2005 annual meeting of shareholders. As a member of AGL Resources Board of Directors, she will serve on the Compensation and Management Development Committee as well as the Corporate Development Committee.
Whyte has served as an interim chief executive officer, chief operating officer and chief restructuring officer of numerous troubled companies. Some of her assignments have included serving as the CEO of such public corporations as APS Holdings Inc. (Big A Auto Parts) and Service Merchandise Corporation and as an advisor to Regal Cinemas and Finova Capital Corporation.
Whyte was also the national director of business turnaround services for Price Waterhouse. Previously she was a partner with Peterson & Co. Consulting. She is past-president of the American Bankruptcy Institute and a fellow and past-treasurer of the American College of Bankruptcy.
In addition to the AGL Resources board, Whyte sits on the boards of Amerisure Insurance, Washington Group International Inc., Solera Capital, Purdue University (Dean's Advisory Council) and the St. John's Law School Advisory Board. She is an adjunct professor of law at Fordham University School of Law.
Whyte has an MBA in finance and accounting from the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University, and was graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Purdue University.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


