FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20050803152826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Item 5.02
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On August 2, 2005, Dean R. OHare was appointed to the AGL Resources Inc. Board of Directors. His term will expire at the 2006 annual meeting of shareholders. AGL Resources acquired NUI Corporation in November 2004 and during the regulatory approval process, AGL Resources committed to appointing a board member from New Jersey. As a member of the AGL Resources Board of Directors, he will serve on the Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Committee as well as the Finance and Risk Management Committee.
Mr. OHare, of Far Hills, New Jersey, joined Chubb in 1963 as an underwriting trainee and was named an officer of the corporation in 1972, chief financial officer in 1980, president in1986, and chairman and chief executive officer in 1988 where he served until his retirement in 2002.
Mr. OHare is the chairman of the board of SeaPass and a director of DFA Capital Management and Proudfoot Consulting. Mr. OHare is also chairman of the Partnership for New Jersey: a coalition of leaders of the states major corporations in association with nonprofit institutions and smaller businesses committed to act in partnership with government and the independent sector to make New Jersey a better place to live and work.
He has been a director of HJ Heinz Company since 2000. Mr. OHare has also been a director of the Fluor Corporation since 1997 and is presently chairman of the Audit Committee of the board. One of the worlds largest publicly owned engineering, procurement, construction, and maintenance services organizations, Fluors global clients include those in the oil and gas industry.
A leading voice on international trade issues, Mr. OHare is vice-chairman of the United States Council for International Business and has served as a member of the Presidents Trade Advisory Committee, chairman of the U.S. Coalition of Service Industries, member and immediate past chairman of the U.S. - India Council, member of the Global Business Dialogue on Electronic Commerce, and a financial governor of the World Economic Forum (Davos).
Active in philanthropic organizations, OHare is co-chairman for the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York; a trustee and chairman of the Financial Committee at St. Benedicts Preparatory School in Newark, New Jersey; a trustee of the University of Dublin in Ireland; and a trustee of the Intrepid Museum in New York.
Mr. OHare received a B.S. in Financial Management from New York University in 1963 and an M.B.A. from the Pace University Graduate School of Business Administration in 1969.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


