FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20050429154221.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
For Immediate Release
 
contact:
 
Financial
Brian Little
Director, Investor Relations
404 584 4414
blittle@aglresources.com
 
Media
Nick Gold
Director, Media Relations
404 584 3457 (office)
404 275 9501 (cellular)
ngold@aglresources.com
 
ATLANTA, April 29, 2005
- Atlanta Gas Light Company, a subsidiary of AGL Resources Inc. (NYSE: ATG), today filed a Motion for Stay of Order at the Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC) in response to the GPSCs 3 to 2 vote on Wednesday, April 27, 2005 to accept, with three amendments, an Advisory Staff recommendation in connection with Atlanta Gas Lights rate case proceeding under Docket No. 18638-U. In an effort to prevent the company from being harmed while it seeks reconsideration of the decision, the motion requests that the GPSC immediately stay its April 29, 2005 order (Order) under Docket No. 18638-U until such time as the GPSC rules on any petitions for rehearing, reconsideration and oral argument that Atlanta Gas Light intends to file on or about May 9, 2005.
While the final Order has not been issued by the GPSC, it is expected today. Atlanta Gas Light has performed a preliminary review of the Advisory Staffs recommendation and the GPSCs stated amendments related to authorized return on equity and an energy conservation program. Atlanta Gas Light has concluded that if the GPSC Order encompasses all the points included in the Advisory Staffs recommendation as amended by the GPSC, Atlanta Gas Lights operating revenues would be reduced by up to $25 million when the Order goes into effect on May 1, 2005.
Atlanta Gas Light has further concluded that the company would be required to recapture the $21 million pre-tax gain previously recognized and associated with the sale of the Caroline Street campus in September 2003 by recording an expense and an associated regulatory liability as of the quarter ended March 31, 2005. This adjustment recommended by the Advisory Staff and approved by the GPSC defers the $21 million pre-tax gain previously recorded by Atlanta Gas Light on the sale of the Caroline Street campus in September 2003 and amortizes the gain into base rates over a 10-year period starting when the Order goes into effect on May 1, 2005.
AGL Resources reported first quarter 2005 net income of $88 million, or $1.15 per basic share ($1.14 per diluted share) on Wednesday, April 27, 2005, the same date the GPSC approved the Advisory Staffs recommendations and three related motions. If Atlanta Gas Light was to record the recapture of the previously recorded pre-tax gain of $21 million associated with the sale of the Caroline Street campus as of March 31, 2005, previously reported first quarter 2005 net income would decrease by $13 million to $75 million. As a result, previously reported first quarter 2005 basic and diluted earnings per share would decrease by $0.17 to $0.98 per basic share ($0.97 per diluted share).
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG), an Atlanta-based energy services holding company, serves 2.3
 
million customers in six states through its utility subsidiaries - Atlanta Gas Light, Elizabethtown Gas in New Jersey, Virginia Natural Gas, Florida City Gas, Chattanooga Gas, and Elkton Gas in Maryland. A Fortune 1000 company that ranks number 46 in the Fortune gas and electric utilities sector, AGL Resources reported 2004 revenue of $1.8 billion and net income of $153 million. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout the East and Midwest.  As a 70 percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand.  AGL Networks, the company's telecommunications subsidiary, owns and operates fiber optic networks in Atlanta and Phoenix.  The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana.  For more information, visit
www.aglresources.com
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this press release are forward-looking statements. Officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, regulators, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts, such as projections of our financial performance, managements goals and strategies for our business and assumptions regarding the foregoing. Because these statements involve anticipated events or conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such as anticipate, assume, believe, can, could, estimate, expect, forecast, indicate, intend, may, plan, predict, project, future, seek, should, target, will, would, or similar expressions. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They represent our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Our expectations are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data along with our operating plans. While we believe that our expectations are reasonable in view of the currently available information, our expectations are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties, and there are several factors - many beyond our control - that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. In addition to the important factors described in this press release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we incorporate by reference in this press release, the following are among the important factors that could cause our business, results of operations or financial condition in the future to differ significantly from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There also may be other factors that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent changes.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


