FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20051130145821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On November 23, 2005, AGL Resources Inc. announced the promotion of Kevin P. Madden from executive vice president, distribution operations and external affairs to executive vice president, external affairs and R. Eric Martinez from senior vice president, business process initiatives to executive vice president, utility operations.
Mr. Madden, age 53, since July 2005, has served as executive vice president of distribution operations and external affairs where his responsibilities included strategic policy and management oversight of AGL Resources regulated gas distribution operations, as well as its Regulatory, Governmental Relations and External Affairs functions. Prior to that, he served as executive vice president, distribution and pipeline operations from April 2002 until July 2005 and as executive vice president, legal, regulatory and government strategy from September 2001 until April 2002. Before joining AGL Resources in September 2001, Mr. Madden served as general counsel and chief legal advisor with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), where he oversaw the development and implementation of all legal and regulatory policies before the FERC. Prior to that role, Mr. Madden served in a number of key, senior positions at the FERC, including director, Office of Pipeline Regulation; director, Office of Hydropower Licensing; and deputy director, Office of Markets, Tariffs and Rates. He also served in a number of legal, policy, and management positions at the FERC, including chief of staff. As executive vice president of external affairs, Mr. Maddens responsibilities will include Regulatory, Governmental Relations and External Affairs functions, including Corporate Communications and Public Affairs.
Mr. Martinez, age 37, since August 2005, has served as senior vice president, business process initiatives and led the AGL Resources business process initiative to integrate the Companys distribution technology environment. Mr. Martinez drove the technology decisions that will allow AGL Resources to realize the Companys vision of the virtual distributed workforce. Prior to that, Mr. Martinez served from December 2004 until August 2005 as vice president and general manager of Elizabethtown Gas, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, which was acquired by AGL Resources from NUI in 2004; from August 2003 until December 2004 as senior vice president of engineering and construction at Pivotal Energy Development, a division of AGL Services Company, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; from June 2002 until December 2002 as executive vice president and general manager and from December 2002 until August 2003 as chief operating officer of AGL Networks, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; from October 2000 until June 2002 as vice president, business development of the Company; and from November 1999 until October 2000 as managing director of field operations of Atlanta Gas Light Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Having joined AGL Resources in 1990, Mr. Martinez served in various other positions with increasing responsibility. As executive vice president of utility operations, Mr. Martinez will be responsible for strategic policy and management oversight of the Companys regulated gas distribution operations, which include six utility subsidiaries that extend from New Jersey to Florida. He is also charged with overseeing the Engineering and Construction as well as Information Technology functions of the Company.
Information concerning compensation arrangements has not yet been determined and will be provided by amendment to this report.
AGL Resources press release announcing the above personnel matters is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
For Immediate Release
date:
 
Nov. 23, 2005
contact:
 
Media
Martha Monfried
Director - Public Affairs
908 289 5000 x 5521 (office)
973 885 7508 (cellular)
mmonfrie@aglresources.com
Financial
Brian Little
Director - Investor Relations
404 584 4414 (office)
404 227 5648 (cellular)
blittle@aglresources.com
 
ATLANTA -
 
(Business Wire) -
Nov. 23, 2005
- AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG) today promoted R. Eric Martinez, Jr. to executive vice president of Utility Operations, Kevin Madden to executive vice president of External Affairs, Peter
Tumminello
to vice president of Corporate Business Development, and Dana A. Grams to president of Pivotal Energy Development (Pivotal), the companys business unit responsible for identifying and developing strategic growth assets.
 
Opportunity favors the well prepared, said Paula Rosput Reynolds, chairman, president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources. These four individuals are well-prepared to create and develop opportunities that will provide sustained development for the future of AGL Resources. All four are proven leaders with a sharp focus on leveraging the companys core natural gas business through technological efficiencies, regulatory and legislative public policy initiatives, acquisitions, structured transactions, and asset development activities.
 
As executive vice president of Utility Operations, Martinez will be responsible for strategic policy and management oversight of the companys regulated gas distribution operations, which include six utility subsidiaries that extend from New Jersey to Florida. He is also charged with overseeing the Engineering and Construction as well as Information Technology functions of the company.
During the past three months, Martinez has led the AGL Resources business process initiative to integrate the companys distribution technology environment (building off of the companys work management, automated dispatch, and customer management system backbone to integrate the full complement of more than 40 related systems into one automated whole). Martinez has driven the technology decisions that will allow AGL Resources to realize the companys vision of the virtual distributed workforce.
 
Previously, Martinez was vice president and general manager of Elizabethtown Gas, which was acquired by AGL Resources from NUI in 2004.
"Erics accomplishments in driving utility business processes and in integrating New Jersey operations this past year have been remarkable and reflect on his strengths as a leader, said Reynolds. As executive vice president, Eric will serve on the Policy Committee in addition to being responsible for all utility operations, including engineering and construction and information technology going forward. This will undoubtedly ensure delivery on our key technology process integration decisions and ultimately help AGL Resources reach our goal to be the nation's most advanced gas logistics and distribution companies."
Having joined AGL Resources in 1990, Martinez served in 2003 as senior vice president of Engineering and Construction at Pivotal and in 2002 as the chief operating officer of AGL Networks.
As executive vice president of External Affairs, Maddens
responsibilities will include Regulatory, Governmental Relations and External Affairs functions, including Corporate Communications and Public Affairs.
Throughout his career at AGL Resources, especially during the last six months, Kevin has strengthened the companys reputation as a national leader in the energy business, said Reynolds. Having him focus on initiatives in the regulatory, legislative and public policy framework in which we operate will increase our ability to achieve the growth we seek through utility operations, asset development and acquisitions.
Since July 2005, Madden has served as executive vice president of Distribution Operations and External Affairs
where his responsibilities included strategic policy and management oversight of AGL Resources regulated gas distribution operations, as well as its Regulatory, Governmental Relations and External Affairs functions.
Before joining AGL Resources in September 2001, Madden served as general counsel and chief legal advisor with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), where he oversaw the development and implementation of all legal and regulatory policies before the commission. Prior to that role, Madden served in a number of key, senior positions, including director, Office of Pipeline Regulation; director, Office of Hydropower Licensing; and deputy director, Office of Markets, Tariffs and Rates.
Madden served as one of the key architects, crafting and implementing landmark FERC decisions such as Order Nos. 636, 637, 888 and 2000. These orders resulted in the restructuring of the natural gas and electric utility industries. He was one of the prime movers behind FERC's pro-competitive policies for the industries. He also served in a number of legal, policy, and management positions at the commission, including chief of staff.
As vice president of Corporate Development, Tumminello will be in charge of managing AGL Resources corporate investment, acquisition and structured transaction functions as well as managing the companys investment in SouthStar Energy Services,
 
a Georgia-based joint venture between AGL Resources and Piedmont Natural Gas.
With more than 20 years in the energy business, Tumminello most recently was senior vice president of Sequent Energy Management, the Houston-based AGL Resources subsidiary focused on fuel supply, asset management and optimization, producer services, wholesale marketing and risk management. Previously, Tumminello was vice president of Energy Supply for Green Mountain Energy Company. Tumminello also worked for TPC Corp. in various natural gas marketing and asset management capacities.
Pete has been an integral part of a strong Sequent management team that has profitably grown the wholesale services business, said Reynolds. This includes growing the companys geographic reach and product offerings as well as successfully extending for another three years the asset management agreement between Sequent and Virginia Natural Gas. Petes vision and execution at Sequent clearly demonstrate his ability to foster strategic growth initiatives throughout AGL Resources.
 
At Sequent since 2003, Tumminello managed the asset management agreements of AGL Resources utilities and was in charge of Sequents asset management and origination services for other local distribution companies, municipal utilities, power generators, industrial customers and retail marketers in the eastern United States.
 
Promoted from senior vice president to president of Pivotal, Grams will continue to head up the AGL Resources business development team responsible for identifying and developing assets that extend AGL Resources' current natural gas business, providing the company with a sharper focus on project development activities promoting future company growth.
Dana can be credited as one of the founders of Sequent in 2001, said Reynolds. He grew the business at Sequent and is now on the hunt for new opportunities at Pivotal. In 2005, Dana delivered two key strategic assets -- Jefferson Island Storage and Hub in Louisiana and Pivotal Propane in Virginia - that demonstrate the synergies and growth that can be achieved between our non-utility and utility operations.
 
Before helping to launch Pivotal in 2003, Grams served as Sequents vice president of asset management, responsible for Sequents activities to obtain better utilization of contracted pipeline and storage facilities.
Grams has also worked for Coral, a unit of Shell Oil Company, and earlier for Phibro Energy USA where he was manager of natural gas trading.
 
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG), an Atlanta-based energy services holding company, serves 2.3 million customers in six states through its utility subsidiaries - Atlanta Gas Light, Elizabethtown Gas in New Jersey, Virginia Natural Gas, Florida City Gas, Chattanooga Gas, and Elkton Gas in Maryland. A Fortune 1000 company that ranks number 46 in the Fortune gas and electric utilities sector, AGL Resources reported 2004 revenue of $1.8 billion and net income of $153 million. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout the East and Midwest. As a 70 percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. AGL Networks, the company's telecommunications subsidiary, owns and operates fiber optic networks in Atlanta and Phoenix. The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana. For more information, visit
www.aglresources.com
.
About Sequent Energy Management
 
Sequent Energy Management, a wholly owned subsidiary of AGL Resources Inc. (NYSE: ATG), is a Houston-based entity focusing on asset management and optimization, producer services, wholesale marketing and risk management. For more information, visit
www.sequentenergy.com
.
About SouthStar Energy Services
SouthStar Energy Services is owned by AGL Resources and Piedmont Natural Gas Company - the two largest gas companies in the Southeast. Headquartered in Atlanta, SouthStar does business in Georgia as Georgia Natural Gas and in the Carolinas and Piedmont Energy Company. For more information, visit
www.southstarenergy.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts and because these statements involve anticipated events or conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such as "anticipate," "assume," "can," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "future," "indicate," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "seek," "should," "target," "will," "would," or similar expressions. Our expectations are not guarantees and are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data along with our operating plans. While we believe our expectations are reasonable in view of the currently available information, our expectations are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties, and there are several factors - many beyond our control - that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Such events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in price, supply and demand for natural gas and related products, impact of changes in state and federal legislation and regulation, actions taken by government agencies on rates and other matters, financial market conditions and general economic conditions, impacts of changes in weather upon the temperature-sensitive portions of the business, and other factors which are listed in greater detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we incorporate by reference in this press release. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent changes.


