FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20050208172022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 1.01
 
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
General
Each year, the Compensation and Management Development Committee (C&MD Committee) of the Board of Directors of AGL Resources Inc. sets base salary and target levels for annual incentive pay and long-term incentives for AGL Resources executive officers. It uses, among other things, survey data for comparable energy industry companies with annual revenues in excess of $4 billion, which data is provided by the C&MD Committees independent consultant.
Base Salary
On February 2, 2005, the C&MD Committee reviewed and set base salaries for executive officers. In reviewing base salaries, the C&MD Committee considered pay for comparable positions reported in the market data described above, tenure in position, increased scope of responsibilities in light of AGL Resources substantial growth in the previous year, performance, retention and other considerations. The base salary for the chairman, president and chief executive officer was increased from $675,000 to $750,000; the base salary for the executive vice president and chief financial officer was increased from $361,000 to $400,000; the base salary for the executive vice president, distribution operations was increased from $310,000 to $345,000; and the base salary for the senior vice president and general counsel was increased from $278,000 to $300,000. The base salary increases were approved by the C&MD Committee, but are not otherwise set forth in a written agreement between AGL Resources and the executives.
Annual Team Performance Incentive Plan
On February 2, 2005, the C&MD Committee also approved target annual incentive compensation opportunities, expressed as a percentage of annual base salary, for each of AGL Resources executive officers. AGL Resources annual incentive compensation program for the executive officers gives weight to corporate, business unit and individual performance. In addition, executive officers are eligible for an annual incentive award up to 200% of their individual target. For 2005, the target level of bonus is 75% for the chairman, president and chief executive officer (an increase from 67%) and ranges from 40 to 65% for all other executive officers (which previously ranged from 40 to 50%, depending upon position).
A description of the annual team performance incentive plan is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, pursuant to Paragraph 10(iii) of Item 601 to Regulation S-K, which requires a written description of a compensatory plan when no formal document contains the compensation information.
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
AGL Resources Inc. (the Company) has established the Annual Team Performance Incentive Plan (the ATPI Plan) as a program under which annual cash incentives have historically been tied to the achievement of Company earnings per share targets, business unit goals and individual performance goals. Historically, all employees, including executives, have been eligible to participate in the ATPI Plan. The ATPI Plan seeks to offer rewards that motivate executives and other employees to devote their maximum efforts toward the realization by the Company of aggressive and significant, yet achievable, improvements in financial performance. Historically, the Company has been required to meet or surpass its corporate earnings per share performance threshold in order for any incentive payments to be made, irrespective of the level of business unit achievement or individual performance achievement. The Companys Compensation and Management Development Committee (the Committee) is charged with certifying the level of corporate achievement. The Committee also oversees the general administration of the ATPI Plan.
Under the plan, each participant has a target annual incentive compensation opportunity, expressed as a percentage of annual base salary. Historically, the plan has given weight to corporate performance, applicable business unit performance and individual performance. Participants eligible for annual incentive awards have generally been capped at a certain percentage of their target award under the ATPI Plan.
Payment of bonuses (if any) is normally made in February after the end of the performance period. Bonuses (if any) are paid in cash in a single lump sum, subject to payroll taxes and tax withholdings.


