FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20050202153951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
News Release
 
For Immediate Release
 
contact:
Financial
Brian Little
Director, Investor Relations
404 584 4414
 
Media
Nick Gold
Director, Media Relations
404 584 3457 or 404 275 9501
 
 
 
 
ATLANTA, February 2, 2005
- The Board of Directors of AGL Resources Inc. (NYSE: ATG) today approved a 7 percent increase in the AGL Resources common stock dividend.
The increase raises the quarterly dividend from $0.29 per share to $0.31 per share, for an indicated annual dividend of $1.24 per share. It also marks the third dividend increase in less than three years, following 4 percent increases in both April 2004 and April 2003. The new quarterly dividend will be paid March 1, 2005, to shareholders of record as of the close of business February 18, 2005.
"With AGL Resources, investors get the best of both worlds," said Paula Rosput Reynolds, chairman, president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources. "We have consistently promised our investors that they would be able to achieve target returns through a combination of a competitive dividend yield and growth in earnings per share. Our Board has raised the dividend early in 2005 to provide assurance that the yield will remain competitive throughout the year." She continued, "At $1.24, the dividend is particularly well-supported by our record 2004 earnings. Importantly, too, the company has a clear line of sight to improved future cash flows which will allow for reinvestment in the business."
 
About AGL Resources
 
AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG) is an Atlanta-based energy services holding company and was named 2003 Gas Company of the Year by Platts Global Energy Awards. The company's utility subsidiaries - Atlanta Gas Light, Elizabethtown Gas in New Jersey, Virginia Natural Gas in Norfolk, Florida City Gas, Chattanooga Gas, and Elkton Gas in Maryland - serve 2.2 million customers in six states. Houston-based subsidiary, Sequent Energy Management, is involved in natural gas asset management and optimization, producer services, wholesale marketing and risk management activities. As a member of the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. AGL Networks, the company's telecommunications subsidiary, owns and operates fiber optic networks in Atlanta and Phoenix. The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana, and Virginia Gas, a natural gas storage pipeline and distribution company in southwestern Virginia and a high-deliverability salt cavern storage facility in Saltville, Virginia. For more information, visit www.aglresources.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this press release are forward-looking statements. Officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, regulators, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts, such as projections of our financial performance, management's goals and strategies for our business and assumptions regarding the foregoing. Because these statements involve anticipated events or conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such as "anticipate," "assume," "can," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "indicate," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "future," "seek," "should," "target," "will," "would," or similar expressions. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They represent our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Our expectations are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data along with our operating plans. While we believe that our expectations are reasonable in view of the currently available information, our expectations are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties, and there are several factors - many beyond our control - that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. In addition to the important factors described in this press release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we incorporate by reference in this press release, the following are among the important factors that could cause our business, results of operations or financial condition in the future to differ significantly from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There also may be other factors that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent changes.
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


