FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20061122144059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
Item 5.02
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On November 21, 2006, Charles H. Pete McTier, of Atlanta, Georgia, was appointed to the AGL Resources Inc. Board of Directors, effective December 5, 2006. His term will expire at the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders.
Mr. McTier, 67, retired in July 2006 after thirty-five years of service to the Robert W. Woodruff Foundation, the Joseph B. Whitehead Foundation, the Lettie Pate Evans Foundation and the Lettie Pate Whitehead Foundation, which are all based in Atlanta and make up one of the largest foundation groups in the Southeast.
The Robert W. Woodruff Foundation is an independent private foundation with a broad charter to support charitable, scientific and educational activities. Grants are generally targeted to nonprofits located and operating in Georgia. Mr. McTier joined the foundations in 1971 as secretary and served as the foundations secretary and treasurer from 1977 to 1987; vice president, secretary and treasurer from 1987 to 1988 and president from 1988 to 2006. Prior to that, Mr. McTier held several administrative positions at Emory University where he earned a Bachelors degree in Business Administration in 1961.
Mr. McTier notwithstanding his retirement remains affiliated with philanthropic entities and serves as a trustee of The Robert W. Woodruff Foundation; the Joseph B. Whitehead Foundation; the Lettie Pate Evans Foundation; Ichauway, Inc.; the Ida Cason Callaway Foundation; and Emory University.
Mr. McTier also currently serves as a member of the board of directors of Coca-Cola FEMSA, S.A. de C.V., the largest Coca-Cola bottler in Latin America and the second largest bottler of Coca-Cola trademark beverages in the world and as an advisory board member of SunTrust Bank of Georgia and SunTrust Bank Atlanta.
Mr. McTier has not yet been assigned to any committees of the AGL Resources Inc. Board of Directors.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


