FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20060207171917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 1.01
 
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
General
Each year, the Compensation and Management Development Committee (C&MD Committee) of the Board of Directors of AGL Resources Inc. sets base salary and target levels for annual incentive pay and long-term incentives for AGL Resources executive officers. For benchmarking executive compensation practices and levels, the C&MD Committee reviews data from the AGL Resources proxy peer group of natural gas service providers and a published compensation survey of energy service industry companies, which is provided by the C&MD Committees independent consultant.
Base Salary
On February 1, 2006, the C&MD Committee reviewed and set base salaries for executive officers for 2006. In reviewing base salaries, the C&MD Committee considered pay for comparable positions reported in the market data described above, tenure in position, increased scope of responsibilities in light of AGL Resources substantial growth in the previous year, performance, retention and other considerations. The base salary for Kevin P. Madden, the executive vice president, external affairs, will remain at $380,000; the base salary for R. Eric Martinez, the executive vice president, utility operations, will remain at $300,000; the base salary for Paul R. Shlanta, the executive vice president, general counsel and chief ethics and compliance officer, was increased from $300,000 to $310,000; and the base salary for Andrew W. Evans, the senior vice president and chief financial officer, will remain at $300,000. These four officers, together with AGL Resources former chief executive officer who resigned from AGL Resources effective as of December 31, 2005, are AGL Resources named executive officers for 2006. The base salaries for the four above-named executive officers for 2006 were approved by the C&MD Committee but are not otherwise set forth in a written agreement between AGL Resources and the executives.
Executive Performance Incentive Plan and Annual Incentive Plan
AGL Resources annual incentive compensation program for the named executive officers consists of the executive performance incentive plan (EPIP) and the annual incentive plan (AIP). The annual incentive compensation program gives weight to both corporate and individual performance.
How the EPIP and AIP work.
Under the EPIP, the C&MD Committee establishes objective performance measures from among a list of eligible measures set forth in the plan, and those performance measures must be met or exceeded in order for the named executive officers to receive a payout. The C&MD Committee reviews the actual performance at the end of each year, compares it with the predetermined goals, and certifies the results under the plan. In order to attempt to maximize the deductibility, for federal income tax purposes, of corporate performance awards made to the named executive officers, the corporate performance portion of the named executive officers annual incentive awards, which constitutes 75% of their total incentive opportunity, is covered under the shareholder-approved EPIP.
Annual incentive compensation under the AIP, which also applies to eligible employees below the named executive officer level, is based on corporate, business unit and individual performance measures. For the named executive officers, only the AIPs individual performance measure is applied for the remaining 25% of the named executive officers total incentive opportunity (which is not eligible for the federal income tax deductibility exemption under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended).
Under the annual incentive compensation program, each participant has a target annual incentive compensation opportunity, expressed as a percentage of earned base salary during the fiscal year. On February 1, 2006, the C&MD Committee approved target annual incentive compensation opportunities for 2006, expressed as a percentage of 2006 annual base salary, for each of AGL Resources named executive officers, other than the former chief executive officer. For 2006, the incentive target level for Mr. Evans was increased from 50% to 60% of annual base salary and will remain the same for all other named executive officers, which is 60% for Messrs. Madden and Martinez and 50% for Mr. Shlanta.
As noted above, annual incentive compensation for the named executive officers is calculated using the following weights: 75% corporate performance score, which is based on the earnings per share (EPS) benchmarks described below, (covered under the EPIP) and 25% individual performance score (covered under the AIP). To determine a named executive officers annual incentive compensation, 75% of the individual named executive officers incentive target is multiplied by the corporate performance score and 25% is multiplied by his or her individual performance score. Maximum awards for the named executive officers may be up to 200% of their overall target annual incentive compensation opportunity.
On February 1, 2006, the C&MD Committee established the corporate EPS performance measures for the 2006 performance measurement period. The corporate EPS goals under the AIP and the EPIP for 2006 are:
*The Company must meet or surpass a corporate EPS goal of $2.58 for the year ending December 31, 2006 in order for any payment to be made under the AIP or EPIP.
The EPS goal is established by the C&MD Committee solely for the purposes of performance measurement under the annual incentive compensation program and should not be considered an update to previously provided earnings guidance.
Certain additional terms of the annual incentive plan for 2006 have not yet been finalized and will be provided by amendment to this report.
Long-Term Incentive Grants
On February 1, 2006, the C&MD Committee approved stock option grants to certain of its executive officers, other officers and key employees, including the following named executive officers:
The grants were made pursuant to the Companys Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan (1999) (the Plan), which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2002. A form of nonqualified stock option agreement was previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 15, 2005.
The stock options are exercisable at a price of $35.78 per share and vest in accordance with the schedule set forth in the nonqualified stock option agreement. Subject to earlier termination as described in the Plan, the stock options expire ten years from the date of grant. Upon a change of control of the Company, or upon the optionees death, disability or retirement, all unvested options will become vested and exercisable. In the event of the optionees termination of employment for any reason other than death, disability or retirement, any portion of the option which has not become exercisable shall immediately terminate.
Restricted stock and performance cash unit awards for the named executive officers have not yet been finalized and will be disclosed by amendment to this report.
Item 8.01
 
Other Events
On February 3, 2006, the Company issued a press release, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, announcing the authorization of a share repurchase program. The share repurchase program authorizes management to purchase, or cause to be purchased, from time to time, in the open market or otherwise and in one or more transactions beginning on February 1, 2006 and ending no later than January 31, 2011, up to 8 million shares of the Companys common stock.
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
AGL Resources Announces Share Repurchase Program and Declares Quarterly Dividend
ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Feb. 3, 2006--AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized a plan to repurchase up to 8 million shares of its outstanding common stock. The timing of these purchases will be determined by the company based upon a number of factors, including the market price of AGL Resources common stock; the availability and pursuit of strategic initiatives, including investment and acquisition opportunities; operating cash flow; and internal capital requirements.
The share repurchase program is an effective tool to help build shareholder value and gives us the flexibility to maintain our debt-to-equity capitalization ratio at its appropriate target level, said Andrew W. Evans, senior vice president and chief financial officer. It is designed to offset share issuances under our employee incentive compensation plans, director plans, and dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plans, and will enable us to optimize our capital structure to increase shareholder value.
Stock repurchases under this program may be made in the open market or in private transactions at times and in amounts that management deems appropriate. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of additional shares that may be repurchased, and management may terminate or limit the stock repurchase program at any time. Repurchased shares will be held as treasury shares.
The company also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share on the company's common stock. The dividend is payable March 1, 2006 to shareholders of record at the close of business on Feb. 17, 2006. The dividend payment will mark the 233rd consecutive quarterly dividend paid by the company since 1948.
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG), an Atlanta-based energy services holding company, serves 2.2 million customers in six states through its utility subsidiaries - Atlanta Gas Light, Elizabethtown Gas in New Jersey, Virginia Natural Gas, Florida City Gas, Chattanooga Gas, and Elkton Gas in Maryland. Ranked by Forbes as one of the 10 Best Managed Utilities and No. 250 in the Forbes Platinum 400 in 2006 as well as a Fortune 1000 company in 2005, AGL Resources reported revenue of $2.7 billion and net income of $193 million in 2005. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout the East and Midwest. As a 70 percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. AGL Networks, the company's telecommunications subsidiary, owns and operates fiber optic networks in Atlanta and Phoenix. The company also owns and operates Pivotal Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana. For more information, visit www.aglresources.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts and because these statements involve anticipated events or conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such as anticipate, assume, can, could, estimate, expect, forecast, future, indicate, intend, may, outlook, plan, predict, project, seek, should, target, will, would, or similar expressions. Our expectations are not guarantees and are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data along with our operating plans. While we believe our expectations are reasonable in view of the currently available information, our expectations are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties, and there are several factors - many beyond our control - that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations.
Such events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in price, supply and demand for natural gas and related products; the impact of changes in state and federal legislation and regulation; actions taken by government agencies on rates and other matters; concentration of credit risk; utility and energy industry consolidation; impact of acquisitions and divestitures; direct or indirect effects on AGL Resources' business, financial condition or liquidity resulting from a change in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our counterparties or competitors; interest rate fluctuations; financial market conditions and general economic conditions; uncertainties about environmental issues and the related impact of such issues; the impact of changes in weather upon the temperature-sensitive portions of the business; impacts of natural disasters such as hurricanes upon the supply and price of natural gas; acts of war or terrorism; and other factors which are provided in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we incorporate by reference in this press release. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent changes.
CONTACT: AGL Resources
Media
Martha J. Monfried, 404-584-3787
mmonfried@aglresources.com
or
Financial
Steve Cave, 404-584-3801
scave@aglresources.com
 


