FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20060103160754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 1.01
 
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On December 6, 2005, Paula Rosput Reynolds gave notice of her intent to resign as chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources Inc. (the Company) effective December 31, 2005, to become president and chief executive officer of Safeco Corporation. On December 7, 2005 the Companys board of directors appointed director D. Raymond Riddle as interim chairman and chief executive officer, effective January 1, 2006. The foregoing matters were reported in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on December 7, 2005.
On January 1, 2006, the Company entered into a Non-Solicitation, Cooperation and General Release and Waiver Agreement (the Agreement) with Ms. Reynolds on behalf of itself and AGL Services Company (its wholly-owned subsidiary). Pursuant to the Agreement, the Continuity Agreement effective as of December 1, 2003 between the Company and Ms. Reynolds terminated on December 31, 2005. Additionally, Ms. Reynolds agreed (1) to be available to assist the Company in an orderly transition for up to 24 months following her resignation, (2) not to disclose or use confidential information related to the Companys business without the prior written consent of the Company, (3) not to initiate contact with employees of the Company for employment outside the Company for 24 months following her resignation, and (4) to take no action which damages the reputation of the Company or any of its employees, officers or directors. Ms. Reynolds also released the Company and its affiliates from all claims or demands that she may have based on her employment and directorship with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company and agreed not to bring any actions against the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company with regard to such matters. In consideration for these agreements, no later than January 31, 2006, the Company will pay Ms. Reynolds the sum of $281,000, less applicable withholding and other customary deductions, as a full and final settlement of all amounts to which Ms. Reynolds may claim to be entitled for any and all employment with, and services to, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates other than amounts due to Ms. Reynolds under the Companys compensation and employee benefit plans.
Ms. Reynolds, along with the Companys other executive officers, will receive payment of certain long-term incentive awards that vest as of December 31, 2005, as further described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on January 7, 2005. Ms. Reynolds is also eligible under the terms of the Executive Performance Incentive Plan dated February 2, 2002 and filed with the Commission as Exhibit 99.1 to the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2002, to receive an award based on corporate performance for the performance period ended December 31, 2005. Ms. Reynolds will not be eligible for an award based on individual performance goals under the Companys 2005 Annual Incentive Plan.
A copy of the Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
EXHIBIT 10.1
THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and entered into this 1st day of January 2006, by and between
PAULA ROSPUT REYNOLDS
(the "Executive") and
AGL RESOURCES INC
.
, (the "Company"), on behalf of itself and its wholly-owned subsidiary AGL Services Company, together with its successors and assigns.
WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company have previously entered into that certain Continuity Agreement effective as of December 1, 2003 (the "Continuity Agreement") with respect to Executive's employment with the Company; and
WHEREAS, the Executive tendered her resignation as an employee and director of the Company effective as of December 31, 2005;
WHEREAS, the Company accepted such resignation; and
WHEREAS, the parties wish to settle all matters between the Executive and the Company.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Executive and the Company agree as follows:
1.
  
Employment and Directorship Termination
. The parties agree and acknowledge that, as a result of Executives resignation: (i) Executive's employment and directorship with the Company terminated effective December 31, 2005 (the "Termination Date") and (ii) on the Termination Date, the Continuity Agreement terminated and is no longer in effect.
 
2.
  
Payment
. As soon as practicable, but no later than January 31, 2006, the Company will pay, or will cause to be paid, to the Executive the sum of $281,000, less any applicable withholding and other customary deductions, as (i) consideration for the covenants contained in this Agreement and (ii) a full and final settlement of all amounts to which the Executive may claim to be entitled for any and all employment with, and services to, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates other than amounts due the Executive under the Company's compensation and employee benefit plans.
 
3.
  
Cooperation.
The Executive agrees that she will be available to assist in an orderly transition for a period of up to twenty-four (24) months following the Termination Date as determined necessary, and as requested, by the Company. Additionally, the Executive shall provide to the Chief Executive Officer and to the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certifications in the form attached hereto as Exhibits A and B, respectively, in connection with the filing by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Companys annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Such certifications shall be provided by Executive after she has had a reasonable opportunity to review the Form 10-K in substantially the form that the Company intends to file it.
 
4.
  
Confidentiality; Non-Disparagement; Non-Solicitation.
Without the prior written consent of the Company, the Executive agrees hereby not to disclose or use, directly or indirectly (except as may be required by a court of competent jurisdiction), any trade secret or other confidential information pertaining to the conduct of the Company's business, unless and until such trade secret or confidential information is in the public domain. The Company's business, as that term is used herein, includes, but is not limited to, the Company's and any of its subsidiaries' records, processes, methods, data, reports, information, documents, equipment, training manuals, customer lists and business secrets. Executive further agrees that, during the twenty-four (24) month period following the Termination Date, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company: (i) initiate contact with employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for employment outside the Company or one of its subsidiaries or (ii) hire or knowingly allow Executives then current employer to hire any employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for employment outside the Company or one of its subsidiaries. Except as may be compelled by a court of competent jurisdiction or as may otherwise by required by law, Executive shall take no action (including without limitation the making of any oral or written statement) which damages the reputation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective employees, officers or directors.
 
5.
  
Release and Waiver.
The Executive, for the Executive and the Executive's predecessors, successors, assigns, and heirs, hereby agrees to discharge and release the Company and, as applicable, each of its direct and indirect subsidiaries or affiliated corporations, organizations, and representatives, and their respective successors, assigns, present or former owners, employees, officers, directors, consultants, partners, shareholders, clients and counsel from all claims or demands the Executive may have based on the Executive's employment or directorship with the Company or with any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or the termination of any such employment or directorship. This includes a release of any rights or claims the Executive may have based on any facts or events, whether known or unknown by the Executive, that occurred on or before the effective date of this Agreement, or events that are contemplated by this Agreement,
including, without limitation
, a release of any rights or claims the Employee may have based on:
 
a.
 
the Civil Rights Act of 1866, as amended, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, as amended; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended; the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; the Equal Pay Act of 1963; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;
 
b.
 
the laws of the State of Georgia concerning wages, employment and discharge or any other law, rule, regulation or ordinance pertaining to employment, terms and conditions of employment, or termination of employment;
 
c.
 
claims arising out of any legal restrictions of the right to terminate the Companys employees such as wrongful or unlawful discharge or related causes of action;
 
d.
 
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and/or
 
e.
 
violations of any contract express or implied.
 
No reference to the aforementioned causes of action or claims is intended to limit the scope of the release and waiver provisions of this Agreement.
 
6.
  
No Future Grievances
. The Executive promises never to file, or cause to be filed, any petitions, charges, complaints, grievances, lawsuits, or related documents with any judicial or administrative agency or union relating to any matter released herein.
 
7.
  
Period of Acceptance
. The Executive acknowledges that she has been advised that the terms of this Agreement shall be open for acceptance by the Executive for a period of at least 21 days during which time the Executive may consider whether or not to accept this Agreement and seek counsel to advise the Executive regarding the same. The Executive agrees that changes to this Agreement, whether material or immaterial, will not restart this acceptance period, and that she may use as much or as little of this period as she wishes prior to signing. The Executive also acknowledges that she may revoke this Agreement within seven days after signing it. To be effective, notice of such revocation must be received in writing by the Company. Notice of such revocation may also be made by hand delivery or by facsimile.
 
8.
  
Complete Understanding
. This Agreement contains the parties' complete understanding and there are no other agreements, oral or written, pertaining to the subject matter of this Agreement. Any amendment or modification of this Agreement must be made in writing and signed by all parties hereto. Any prior separation or release agreements or understandings are hereby revoked unless specifically incorporated into this Agreement.
 
9.
  
Voluntary Agreement
. The Executive acknowledges that she is entering into this Agreement voluntarily and of her own free will, and that there were no inducements or representations leading to the execution of this document, except as described in this Agreement.
 
10.
  
Consultation with Counsel
. The Executive acknowledges that before signing this Agreement, the Executive was advised to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Agreement and the Executive had an adequate opportunity to review the Agreement with persons of her choosing, including her attorney, and the Executive signed the Agreement knowingly and voluntarily.
 
11.
  
Binding Effect
. The parties expressly agree that this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, successors and assigns.
 
12.
  
Severability
. In the event any provision of the Agreement shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Agreement, and the Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
 
13.
  
Counterparts
. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which, taken together, shall constitute one Agreement.
 
14.
  
Governing Law
. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Agreement to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive and the Company have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written.
EXECUTIVE
/s/ Paula Rosput Reynolds
 
 
 
Paula Rosput Reynolds
 
 
 
AGL RESOURCES INC.
 
/s/ Paul R. Shlanta
 
 
 
By: Paul R. Shlanta
Its: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer
 
I, Paula Rosput Reynolds, certify that:
1.
 
I have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 10-K of AGL Resources Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (the Report);
 
2.
 
Based on my knowledge, the Report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by the Report;
 
3.
 
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements and other financial information included in the Report fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in the Report;
  
4.
 
The registrant's chief financial officer and I were responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and we:
 
(a)
 
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to the registrants chief executive officer and chief financial officer by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which the report was being prepared; and
(b)
 
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
5.
 
I evaluated the effectiveness of the registrants disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by the Report and concluded that the registrants disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2005 in providing a reasonable level of assurance that information the registrant is required to disclose in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods in SEC rules and forms, including a reasonable level of assurance that information required to be disclosed by the registrant in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the registrants management, including the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures;
6.
 
I evaluated the effectiveness of the registrants internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the period covered by the Report based on the framework in
Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and concluded that the registrants internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005;
and
7.
 
I have disclosed to the registrants chief financial officer and to the audit committee of the registrants board of directors any change in the registrants internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrants fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrants internal control over financial reporting; and
 
8.
 
I have disclosed, based on my most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors:
 
(a)
 
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
(b)
 
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.
The undersigned, as the chief executive officer of AGL Resources Inc. during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:
(1)  
 
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of AGL Resources Inc. for the annual period ended December 31, 2005 (the Report) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2)  
 
the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of AGL Resources Inc.


