FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20060630163435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On June 30, 2006, Chattanooga Gas Company announced that it had filed a general rate case with the Tennessee Regulatory Authority.  
A copy of the press release announcing such information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.  
 
The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibit 99.1 referenced therein, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 unless AGL Resources Inc. expressly so incorporates such information by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
News Release
 
For Immediate Release
 
date:
 
June 30, 2006
 
contact:
 
Robin Keegan
Manager, Media Relations
404 584 3946 (office)
404 783 1758 (cell)
rkeegan@aglresources.com
 
ATLANTA - Chattanooga Gas Company today filed a general rate case with the Tennessee Regulatory Authority - one of the first in the nation that promotes natural gas conservation and seeks cost recovery for the company due to lower natural gas consumption.
The rate case petition would offer Chattanooga Gas customers a 21-point home energy check-up and a weatherization kit to help them make their homes more energy efficient. Customers could save up to $170 annually in energy costs.
Chattanooga Gas Companys rate case petition, driven largely by higher costs to finance its operations, also includes incentives to customers to reduce their natural gas consumption by offering rebates for more energy efficient appliances. The average residential customer could save up to an additional $200 each year from the more efficient appliances available through the rebate program.
We know customers are looking for ways to manage their energy costs, said Steve Lindsey, vice president and general manager, Chattanooga Gas Company. This conservation program provides them with several options that could keep their bills lower.
Conservation helps manage supply in the global marketplace where demand for natural gas is outstripping available reserves. With less consumption, conservation helps keep downward pressure on prices which benefits customers.
Chattanooga Gas customers are billed for the gas commodity and service to deliver it. The company does not include a mark-up on the cost of the gas which accounts for about 75 percent of the total bill.
 
Currently, rates for Chattanooga Gas Company recover costs based on an assumed level of how much gas is used by customers. If natural gas customers use less, these rates dont allow the company to fully recover the cost to serve the customer. If the customer uses more gas than assumed, the company may recover more than the cost of providing service. As demonstrated in the Companys filing, current rates are $5.8 million less than what it costs the company to provide that service.
Chattanooga Gas unique, multi-faceted rate proposal should align the interests of customers and the company. Under the rate case proposal, customers rates would be adjusted annually based on actual annual consumption of natural gas rather than an assumed level of natural gas consumption.
Officials with the Chattanooga Gas Company attribute the need for this rate increase to higher costs of financing its operations and lower consumption of natural gas. If approved, the new delivery charge would increase the average residential bill by about $6.36 per month. However, this could be more than offset by the energy saving measures included in the companys plan.
 
About AGL Resources
 
AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG), an Atlanta-based energy services holding company, serves 2.2 million customers in six states through its utility subsidiaries - Atlanta Gas Light, Elizabethtown Gas in New Jersey, Virginia Natural Gas, Florida City Gas, Chattanooga Gas, and Elkton Gas in Maryland. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout the East and Midwest. As a 70 percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. AGL Networks, the company's telecommunications subsidiary, owns and operates fiber optic networks in Atlanta and Phoenix. The company also owns and operates Pivotal Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana.
Forward-Looking Statements
 Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this press release, such as the expected net proceeds from this offering, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts, and because these statements involve anticipated events or conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such as "anticipate," "assume," "can," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "future," "indicate," "intend," "may," "outlook," "plan," "predict," "project," "seek," "should," "target," "will," "would," or similar expressions. Our expectations are not guarantees and are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data along with our operating plans. While we believe our expectations are reasonable in view of the currently available information, our expectations are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties, and there are several factors - many beyond our control - that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations.
Such events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, direct or indirect effects on AGL Resources' business, financial condition or liquidity resulting from a change in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our counterparties or competitors; interest rate fluctuations; financial market conditions and general economic conditions; and other factors which are described in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we incorporate by reference in this press release. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent changes.


