FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20060508164156.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
AGL Resources Inc. (the Company) hereby amends its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 8, 2006 to include disclosure concerning the committees of the board of directors on which Messrs. John W. Somerhalder II and D. Raymond Riddle now serve.
 
Item 5.02
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
Effective March 3, 2006, the board of directors of the Company elected John W. Somerhalder II as the Companys president, chief executive officer and newest member of the board of directors and D. Raymond Riddle as chairman of the Companys board of directors. Mr. Riddle previously served as the Companys interim chairman and chief executive officer, beginning January 1, 2006 following the resignation, effective December 31, 2005, of Paula Rosput Reynolds, the Companys former chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer, to become president and chief executive officer of Safeco Corporation.
Effective May 2, 2006, the board of directors, by unanimous written consent, appointed Mr. Somerhalder as a member of the boards Corporate Development Committee, Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Committee and Finance and Risk Management Committee. The board of directors also appointed Mr. Riddle as a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and as chairman of the Executive Committee of the board of directors. Effective May 2, 2006, as chairman of the Executive Committee, Mr. Riddle will serve as the presiding director during executive sessions of the board.
The committees of the board and their members effective May 2, 2006 are as shown below.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


