FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20071105170644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Chairman of the Board
On October 31, 2007, the Board of Directors of AGL Resources Inc. (the Company) appointed John W. Somerhalder II chairman of the board, making Mr. Somerhalders new title Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, effective October 31, 2007.  The Board also appointed D. Raymond Riddle Lead Director, effective October 31, 2007.  Mr. Riddle has been a member of the Companys Board of Directors since May 1978 and prior to Mr. Somerhalders appointment served as chairman of the board.
A copy of the press release announcing these governance changes is attached to this report as exhibit 99.1.
Effective October 31, 2007, the Board amended the Companys Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues (the Guidelines) to, among other things, define the role of the Lead Director.  Specifically, the Guidelines were amended by adding the following new paragraph:
6.           Lead Director
If the Chairman of the Board of Directors is an executive officer or employee of the Company, then the Board of Directors shall appoint, from among the independent directors, a Lead Director.  The Lead Director shall be appointed for a term ending on the earlier of (a) three years from the date of appointment or (b) the last day of the individuals service on the Board of Directors.  The Lead Director shall: (a) serve as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors; (b) preside at the Executive Sessions of non-management directors; (c) collaborate with the Chief Executive Officer, the General Counsel and the Corporate Secretary on setting the annual calendar for all regular meetings of the Board and its standing committees; (d) maintain close contact with the chairmen of each standing committee; (e) oversee the Companys policy on communications between shareholders or other interested parties and non-management directors; and (f) communicate the results of the annual evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer to the Chief Executive Officer on behalf of the Board of Directors.
As a result, the Board adopted a conforming amendment to the Companys bylaws to reflect the role of Lead Director in chairing the Boards Executive Committee.  A copy of the text of the amendment to the Companys bylaws is attached to this report as exhibit 3.2.  A copy of the Guidelines as amended is available on the Companys website at www.aglresources.com.
Item 9.01                                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 3.2
The following amendment to the Bylaws was adopted by the Board of Directors on October 31, 2007:
The Bylaws of AGL Resources Inc. shall be amended by deleting the second sentence in the first paragraph of Section 3.1. and replacing in lieu thereof the following sentences:
If a Lead Director shall have been appointed by the Board of Directors from among the independent directors, then the Lead Director shall serve as Chairman of the Executive Committee.  If no Lead Director shall have been appointed, then either the Chairman of the Board of Directors, a former Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, as designated by the Board of Directors, shall serve as Chairman of the Executive Committee.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
AGL Resources names president and CEO John Somerhalder chairman of the board
ATLANTA  Nov. 5, 2007  AGL Resources [NYSE: ATG], an Atlanta-based energy services company with more than 2.2 million natural gas customers in six states, today announced that John W. Somerhalder II, the companys president and CEO, has been named chairman of the board effective October 31, 2007. Mr. Somerhalders new title is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
The company also announced that the Board has appointed D. Raymond Riddle Lead Director, effective October 31, 2007.  Mr. Riddle has been a member of the companys Board of Directors since May 1978, and prior to Mr. Somerhalders appointment served as chairman of the board.
Somerhalder has served as president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources since March 2006. Somerhalder joined AGL Resources from El Paso Corporation (NYSE: EP) where he spent almost 30 years with El Paso and its predecessor entities, rising through the ranks from engineer to president of El Paso Pipeline Group and executive vice president of El Paso Corporation.
Somerhalder serves on the board of the American Gas Association, the Gas Technology Institute, the Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce and Georgia Chamber of Commerce.  He was elected Director of Quicksilver Gas Services GP LLC in July 2007. He has served as past chairman of the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America (INGAA) and the INGAA Foundation. Somerhalder holds a Bachelor of Science degree in chemical engineering from the University of Arizona.
About AGL Resources
 
AGL Resources (NYSE: ATG), an Atlanta-based energy services company, serves more than 2.2 million customers in six states. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout the nation. As a 70 percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana. For more information, visit .
www.aglresources.com
Contact:                 AGL Resources
John Kennedy
24-Hour Media Line: 1-866-757-6646
Office: 404-584-4319
Cell:  404-227-3565
jkennedy@aglresources.com


