FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20071218100333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
AGL Resources Inc. (the Company) sponsors the AGL Resources Inc. Retirement Savings Plus Plan (the Plan).  The Company notified its plan participants by letter dated December 3, 2007, that, as a result of a change in the recordkeeping system for the Plan, there will be a blackout period that will begin on Thursday, January 10, 2008 at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Time and is expected to end on Wednesday, January 16, 2008 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time (the Blackout Period). During the Blackout Period, participants in the Plan will be unable to access their accounts under the Plan, including being unable to direct or diversify their investments in their individual accounts, obtain a loan or distribution from the Plan, change their contribution rate, or obtain a hardship withdrawal from the Plan.  The Plan administrator has advised the Company, by notice received on December 17, 2007, that participants in the Plan have received notice of the Blackout Period, as required by law.
 
As a result of this Blackout Period, on December 18, 2007 the Company sent a notice to its directors and executive officers informing them that a blackout period with respect to all directors and executive officers will begin on Thursday, January 10, 2008, and is expected to end on Wednesday, January 16, 2008, during which period they will be prohibited from engaging in transactions in equity securities of the Company (the Notice).
 
The Company provided the Notice to its directors and executive officers pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of the Securities and Exchange Commissions Regulation BTR. A copy of the Notice is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
A participant in the Plan, a shareholder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, information regarding the Blackout Period, by contacting Rita White, Managing Director, Benefits & Compensation at AGL Resources Inc., Ten Peachtree Place, NE, Loc. 1426, Atlanta, Georgia 30309, before or during the Blackout Period, telephone: (404) 584 - 4266.
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)         Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
The AGL Resources Inc. Retirement Savings Plus Plan (the RSPP) will be changing recordkeeping systems. In connection with this change, all RSPP participants will be temporarily unable to access their RSPP account, including being unable to:
 
This short-term period during which RSPP participants will be unable to exercise these rights qualifies as a blackout period under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules and regulations.  As a result of the blackout, we are required to prohibit our directors and executive officers from trading in AGL Resources Common Stock (and related equity securities, such as stock options) during this blackout period (the Retirement Plan Blackout).
The Retirement Plan Blackout will begin on Thursday, January 10, 2008 and is expected to end on Wednesday, January 16, 2008.  If there is a subsequent change in the timing of the Retirement Plan Blackout, we will send you an updated notice.
  Examples of prohibited transactions in Company stock include (but are not limited to) the following:
During the Retirement Plan Blackout, you are not permitted to purchase, sell, or otherwise acquire or transfer, directly or indirectly, any shares of AGL Resources Common Stock.
 
 
 
 
 
 
These prohibitions also apply to transactions by members of your immediate family who share your household, as well as by certain entities in which you have financial involvement.  The trading prohibitions do not apply to certain transactions, such as continuing your present salary deferral contributions into the RSPP, certain other automatic transactions, certain Rule 10b5-1 plan transactions and bona fide gifts (collectively, Exempt Transactions).
 
Normally, the Retirement Plan Blackout restrictions only would apply to shares that you acquired in connection with your services as a director or executive officer of the Company.  However, the present Retirement Plan Blackout will occur during our normal quarterly earnings release blackout period for the fourth quarter of 2007, which began 14 days before the end of the Companys fiscal quarter and will not end until after the second full trading day after the release of earnings (the Earnings Blackout).  As you know, during the Earnings Blackout, you and your family are prohibited from engaging in transactions in Company securities, whether or not you received those securities in connection with your services as a director or executive officer of the Company.  To avoid any confusion between these trading periods, we are advising you not to engage in any transaction of Company securities during the Retirement Plan Blackout, other than Exempt Transactions.
Any profit you realize from any transaction involving AGL Resources Common Stock during the Retirement Plan Blackout period (other than an Exempt Transaction) is recoverable by AGL Resources Inc.  In addition, you are subject to civil and criminal penalties if you violate the trading rules involving the Retirement Plan Blackout or the Earnings Blackout.  Accordingly, we strongly urge you to refrain from making any trades in our Common Stock during either blackout period.
If you have any questions concerning this notice or whether certain transactions are subject to these prohibitions, you should contact Anne Tkacs, Executive Director, Corporate Compliance, at AGL Resources Inc., Ten Peachtree Place, NE, Loc. 1065, Atlanta, Georgia 30309, telephone: (404) 584 - 3408.


