FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20080229140251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 29, 2008, Sandra N. Bane of Pasadena, California, was appointed to the AGL Resources Inc. (the Company) board of directors (the Board of Directors), effective February 29, 2008.  Her current term will expire at the Companys 2008 annual meeting of shareholders where she will stand for re-election by the shareholders.
Ms. Bane, 55, retired as a partner from KPMG LLP in 1998 after twenty-three years of service with the firm.  While at KPMG LLP, Ms. Bane headed the Western regions Merchandising practice for the firm, helped establish the Employee Benefits audit specialist program and was partner in charge of the Western regions Human Resource department for two years. Ms. Bane is also a member of the board of directors of Big 5 Sporting Goods Corporation and Transamerica Premier Investment Funds, a mutual fund company for which she serves a total of eleven funds.
Ms. Bane serves as a member of the board for several nonprofit institutions in her community and is a member of the AICPA and the California Society of Certified Public Accountants.
Ms. Bane has been assigned to serve on the Audit and Compensation and Management Development committees of the Board of Directors.
As with each of the Companys other non-employee directors, upon Ms. Banes election to the Board, Ms. Bane received an initial stock award of 1,000 shares; an annual retainer of $17,500, which represents a pro-rated retainer; and will receive $2,000 for attendance in person or by telephone at each meeting of the Board and any committee of the Board of which she is a member.
On February 25, 2008, Michael J. Durham resigned as a member of the Board of Directors effective April 30, 2008.  Mr. Durhams letter of resignation did not state that he was resigning as a result of a disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to its operations, policies, or practices.  Pursuant to the Companys bylaws, the Board of Directors intends, at its April 30 meeting, to decrease its size (which was increased effective February 29, 2008 to include Ms. Bane) and not fill the vacancy created by Mr. Durhams resignation.
th
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 


