FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20090309153155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
On November 5, 2008, AGL Resources Inc. (AGL) announced that Kevin P. Madden would retire as Executive Vice President, External Affairs, effective as of March 1, 2009 (the Retirement Date).   On March 4, 2009, AGL and Mr. Madden entered into a retirement agreement (the Enhanced Retirement Agreement).  The Enhanced Retirement Agreement provides that AGL will pay Mr. Madden a one-time lump sum payment, in the amount of $208,000, which represents an additional amount Mr. Madden would have been entitled to if he had accrued approximately 3 additional years of age and approximately 2.5 additional years of credited service under AGLs defined benefit pension plans.  The Enhanced Retirement Agreement also provides that Mr. Maddens vested stock options which, as of the Retirement Date, have an exercise price that exceeds the fair market value of a share of our common stock on such date (underwater options) will remain exercisable for three years following the Retirement Date (rather than the one year period provided under the terms of our option plans).  In addition, Mr. Madden will provide consulting services to AGL until December 31, 2009, principally from the Washington D.C. area.  Total payments for the consulting services will be $143,800. The Enhanced Retirement Agreement provides that AGL will reimburse Mr. Madden for actual relocation costs incurred to relocate to Washington D.C., in the amount of $20,022.   The Enhanced Retirement Agreement contains restrictive covenants that include non-solicitation of AGL customers and non-recruitment of AGL employees.  The terms of the Enhanced Retirement Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Enhanced Retirement Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)         Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
This Retirement Enhancement Agreement is hereby made by and between Kevin P. Madden (herein called "Executive") and AGL RESOURCES INC. (which, with its affiliates, is herein called "the Company").
This Retirement Enhancement Agreement has been offered to the Executive for a period of 21 days for his consideration. The Executive has determined to retire from his employment with the Company effective, March 1, 2009, and the Company has agreed to provide him with certain payments and benefits. In consideration of the mutual benefits to each party, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
2.            PAYMENTS.
 
(a)
 
s soon as practicable following the Retirement Date, the Company shall pay to the Executive any earned but unpaid base salary, unused vacation pay, unreimbursed business expenses and all other amounts earned by (but not paid to) the Executive through and including the Retirement Date.
Accrued Benefits. A
 
(b)
 
The Executive acknowledges that he shall not be eligible for any payments under any of the Companys annual incentive plans or programs for the 2009 performance period.
Bonus.
 
(c)
 
As soon as practicable (but no later than fifteen (15) days) following the Retirement Date and the expiration of any right of revocation of the Release referenced in Paragraph 12, below, the Company shall reimburse to the Executive personal expenses he has incurred to relocate his family to the Washington D.C. area, in the amount of $20,022
Relocation.
.
 
(d)
 
 s soon as practicable (but no later than fifteen (15) days) following the Retirement Date and the expiration of any right of revocation of the Release referenced in Paragraph 12, below, the Company shall pay to the Executive a one-time lump-sum payment in the amount of $208,000, in recognition of his distinguished and invaluable service to the Company.  This payment is intended to represent the additional amount the Executive would be entitled to if, as of the Retirement Date, he had attained age 60 and had accrued ten years of credited service under the Companys defined benefit pension plans.
Special Payment.  A
 
     (e)  For the period beginning on the Retirement Date and ending December 31, 2009 (the Consulting Period), the Executive will receive payments for continuing consulting services related to rate cases as well as other matters as determined by the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  Payments for the period will total $143,800 plus reimbursement for related expenses, as pre-approved by the Senior Vice President of Governmental and Regulatory Affairs. The Company and the Executive agree that during the Consulting Period, the Executive will act as an independent contractor in the performance of his duties. Accordingly, the Executive shall then be responsible for payment of all taxes including Federal, State and local taxes arising out of the consulting activities and he shall not, except as otherwise set forth herein, be eligible to participate in any of the Companys compensation or benefit plans or arrangements during the Consulting Period.  The Parties will execute a separate agreement outlining the Parties respective rights and obligations regarding the Consulting Period including, without limitation, provisions addressing indemnification rights, ownership of work product, and confidentiality.
   
Consulting Services.  
 
 
 
(a)
 
Any outstanding, vested employee stock options granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan (1999) (LTIP)or Omnibus Performance Incentive Plan (2007) (OPIP), held by the Executive on his Retirement Date for which, as of such date, the exercise price exceeds the then fair market value of a share of Company common stock (as determined in accordance with the terms of the LTIP and OPIP, respectively) shall terminate and expire on the date which is thirty - six (36) months following the Retirement Date, provided such expiration date is not beyond the original expiration date of any such stock option. Any vested stock options other than those described in the previous sentence, shall expire on the first anniversary of the Retirement Date, pursuant to the terms of the subject plans.  As required by law, any outstanding incentive stock options shall convert to nonqualified stock options on the date three months following the Retirement Date.
Vested Stock Options.
 
(b)
 
Unvested stock options granted under the LTIP shall vest as of the Retirement Date.  Unvested stock options granted under the OPIP which would otherwise have vested within twelve (12) months of the retirement date shall vest.  Any other stock options and all unvested restricted stock awards, restricted stock unit awards and performance cash unit awards shall be forfeited as of the Retirement Date.
Unvested, Stock Options and Other Stock-based or Cash based Awards,
 
 
       (a)
 
  Executive agrees that, during a period beginning on the Retirement Date and ending one (1) year after the conclusion of the Consulting Period, he will notify the Companys Chief Executive Officer of any employment, independent contractor, consulting, or other similar relationship that he may accept or any business venture in which he may become involved as an owner, operator, partner, joint venturer or in which he otherwise may obtain an ownership interest.  Executive will provide this notice at least ten (10) business days prior to the time that he performs any work or other services, as described above, or obtains the ownership interest, as described above.  The Companys Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, and Executive will discuss the steps, if any, to be taken to prevent the use or disclosure of the Companys Confidential Information (as defined below).
Limited Disclosure of Employment or other Business Opportunities.
 
      (b)
 
Executive acknowledges that, during his employment and the Consulting Period, he has learned and will learn information that is confidential or proprietary to the Company and its affiliated companies (Confidential Information). Confidential Information is information, without regard to form, relating to the Company and its affiliates and their employees, customers, vendors and/or suppliers that derives economic value, actual or potential, from not being known to others, including, but not limited to, business development strategies, potential projects and purchases, information technology, research and development, contracts and specific terms of contracts with and proposals to, customers, clients and other organizations with which the Company does business or seeks to do business; the type, quantity and specifications of products purchased by or from customers and/or by suppliers; lists and other information about current or prospective clients, vendors or suppliers (including compilations of such information); plans or strategies for capacity supply, regulatory filings, sales, marketing, purchases, acquisitions, ventures, or other business development; sales and account records, prices and pricing strategies/information, methods, systems, techniques, procedures, designs, formula, inventions and know-how, whether or not in writing. Confidential information includes information disclosed to the Company by third parties that the Company is obligated to maintain as confidential information.  Executive agrees that, during the Consulting Period and for a period of one year after the termination of the Consulting Period, he will hold in strictest confidence and not use, for his own benefit or for the benefit of anyone else, any Confidential Information of the Company. Executive further agrees that, to the extent that any Confidential Information is also considered a Trade Secret under applicable law, Executive will hold in strictest confidence and shall not use, for his own benefit or for the benefit of anyone else, any such information as long as it remains a Trade Secret under applicable law.
Nondisclosure and Confidentiality.
  Executive covenants and agrees that, during a period beginning on the Retirement Date and ending one (1) year after the conclusion of the Consulting Period, he will not, without the express written consent of the Companys Chief Executive Officer, directly or indirectly solicit or attempt to solicit any business in competition with the Business of Company from any of Company's customers or suppliers with whom Executive had Material Contact during the last two years of Employee's employment with Company.   For purposes of Paragraph 5, "MaterialContact" means both directly by contact in person, through electronic or paper correspondence, or by telephone for a business-related purpose of Company; or indirectly through other employees supervised by Employee, directly or indirectly, who have contact in person, though electronic or paper correspondence, or by telephone for a business-related purpose of Company. For purposes of paragraph 5, the Business of the Company means operating a natural gas distribution system, marketing natural gas to retail customers, providing asset management and related services to wholesale natural gas customers, and the acquisition, development, marketing, operation and sale of natural gas storage facilities.
           (c)
   
Non-solicitation.
 
r
 
. Executive covenants and agrees that, during a period beginning on the Retirement Date and ending one (1) year after the conclusion of the Consulting Period, he will not directly or indirectly solicit or attempt to solicit any employee of Company with whom he had Material Contact during the last two years of his employment, to terminate or resign such employee's employment with Company.
                     (d)  Non-Recruitment of Employees
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Dave Smith
Vice President - Human Resources
AGL Resources Inc.
Ten Peachtree Place  12 Fl
th
Atlanta, GA 30309
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Retirement Enhancement Agreement on the day of March 4, 2009.
 
EXECUTIVE:
 
Kevin P. Madden
                                                      
/s/ Kevin P. Madden
 
COMPANY:
AGL RESOURCES INC.
 
                                                                           
BY:
John W. Somerhalder II
       
John W. Somerhalder II
       
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 


