FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20090713154258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On January 1, 2009, AGL Resources Inc. (AGL Resources) adopted SFAS 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS 160), which provides that the noncontrolling interest should be reported as a separate component of equity on its consolidated statements of financial position. SFAS 160 also requires that any net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest be presented separately in its consolidated statements of income. As a result, net income from noncontrolling interest is reported after net income in order to report net income attributable to the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The adoption of SFAS 160 has no effect on AGL Resources calculation of basic or diluted earnings per share amounts attributable to AGL Resources, which will continue to be based upon amounts attributable to AGL Resources.
AGL Resources has recast its consolidated financial statements and applied the presentation and disclosure requirements retrospectively for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 in accordance with the guidance set forth in SFAS 160 and is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to file updated consolidated financial statements for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. In connection with this consolidated financial statement recasting, AGL Resources is updating the following information that appeared in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008:
This Current Report on Form 8-K does not reflect events occurring after February 5, 2009, the date AGL Resources filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and does not modify or update the disclosures therein in any way, other than as required to reflect the noncontrolling interest disclosures as described above and set forth in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3 and 99.4 attached hereto.
For information on other developments regarding AGL Resources since the filing of the Form 10-K, please refer to AGL Resources reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including AGL Resources Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 29, 2009, which provides updated information in AGL Resources Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as it relates to the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23
 
 
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-50301, 33-62155, 333-01519, 333-02353, 333-26961, 333-26963, 333-86983, 333-86985, 333-86987, 333-75524, 333-97121, 333-104701, 333-115044, 333-127161, 333-136241, 333-142575 and 333-154965) and S-3 (Nos. 333-22867, 333-136309 and 333-145606) of AGL Resources Inc. of our report dated February 5, 2009, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of the change in accounting for non-controlling interests discussed in Note 1, as to which the date is July 13, 2009 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this current report on Form 8-K dated July 13, 2009.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
July 13, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
BUSINESS
Nature of Our Business
Unless the context requires otherwise, references to we, us, our, the company and AGL Resources are intended to mean consolidated AGL Resources Inc. and its subsidiaries.
We are an energy services holding company whose principal business is the distribution of natural gas in six states - Florida, Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, Tennessee and Virginia. Our six utilities serve more than 2.2 million end-use customers, making us the largest distributor of natural gas in the southeastern and mid-Atlantic regions of the United States based on customer count. We are also involved in several related and complementary businesses, including retail natural gas marketing to end-use customers primarily in Georgia; natural gas asset management and related logistics activities for each of our utilities as well as for nonaffiliated companies; natural gas storage arbitrage and related activities; and the development and operation of high-deliverability natural gas storage assets. We also own and operate a small telecommunications business that constructs and operates conduit and fiber infrastructure within select metropolitan areas.
We manage these businesses through four operating segments and a nonoperating corporate segment. Operating revenues, operating margin, operating expenses and EBIT for each of our business segments are presented in the following table for the last three years.
(2)  Includes intercompany eliminations.
Over the last three years, on average, we have derived 85% of our operating segments EBIT from our regulated natural gas distribution business and the sale of natural gas to retail customers primarily in Georgia through our affiliate SouthStar. This statistic is significant because it represents the portion of our earnings that directly results from the underlying business of supplying natural gas to retail customers. SouthStar, which is subject to a different regulatory framework from our utilities, is an integral part of the retail framework for providing natural gas service to end-use customers in Georgia.
We derived our remaining operating EBIT for the last three years principally from businesses that are complementary to our natural gas distribution business. We engage in natural gas asset management and the operation of high-deliverability natural gas underground storage as ancillary activities to our utility franchises. These businesses allow us to be opportunistic in capturing incremental value at the wholesale level and provide us with deepened business insight about natural gas market dynamics.
The following chart provides each operating segments percentage contribution to the total operating EBIT for the last three years.
Distribution Operations
Our distribution operations segment is the largest component of our business and includes six natural gas local distribution utilities. These utilities construct, manage and maintain intrastate natural gas pipelines and distribution facilities and include:
4
Regulatory Environment
Each utility operates subject to regulations of the state regulatory agencies in its service territories with respect to rates charged to our customers, maintenance of accounting records and various service and safety matters. Rates charged to our customers vary according to customer class (residential, commercial or industrial) and rate jurisdiction. Rates are set at levels that generally should allow recovery of all prudently incurred costs, including a return on rate base sufficient to pay interest on debt and provide a reasonable return for our shareholders. Rate base generally consists of the original cost of utility plant in service, working capital and certain other assets; less accumulated depreciation on utility plant in service and net deferred income tax liabilities, and may include certain other additions or deductions.
In 2009 and 2010, we expect to file base rate cases in four of our six jurisdictions. Over the past several years our utilities have been fulfilling their long-term commitments to rate freezes, which begin expiring in 2009. As these rate cases are filed, we will be seeking rate reforms that encourage conservation and decoupling. In traditional rate designs, our utilities recovery of a significant portion of their fixed customer service costs is tied to assumed natural gas volumes used by our customers. We believe separating, or decoupling, the recovery of these fixed costs from the natural gas deliveries will align the interests of our customers and utilities by encouraging energy conservation and ensuring stable returns for our shareholders.
For our largest utility, Atlanta Gas Light, the natural gas market was deregulated in 1997 with the Deregulation Act. Prior to this act, Atlanta Gas Light was the supplier and seller of natural gas to its customers. Today, Marketers sell natural gas to end-use customers in Georgia and handle customer billing functions. The Marketers file their rates monthly with the Georgia Commission. Atlanta Gas Light's role includes:
 
Atlanta Gas Light recognizes revenue under a straight-fixed-variable rate design whereby it charges rates to its customers based primarily on monthly fixed charges that are periodically adjusted. The Marketers bill these charges directly to their customers. This mechanism minimizes the seasonality of Atlanta Gas Lights revenues since the monthly fixed charge is not volumetric or directly weather dependent. However, weather indirectly influences the number of customers that have active accounts during the heating season, and this has a seasonal impact on Atlanta Gas Lights revenues since generally more customers are connected in periods of colder weather than in periods of warmer weather.
All of our utilities, excluding Atlanta Gas Light, are authorized to use a natural gas cost recovery mechanism that allows them to adjust their rates to reflect changes in the wholesale cost of natural gas and to ensure they recover 100% of the costs incurred in purchasing gas for their customers. Since Atlanta Gas Light does not sell natural gas directly to its end-use customers, it does not need or utilize a natural gas cost recovery mechanism.
In 2007, we filed a joint FERC application with SNG, which was approved in 2008, which obtained an undivided interest in pipelines connecting our Georgia service territory to the Elba Island LNG facility. Under the project, we would purchase the undivided interest and, in turn, lease the interest to SNG. Atlanta Gas Light would then subscribe to the associated supply capacity from SNG. The project is expected to be completed in 2009. We along with SNG have undertaken this pipeline project in an effort to diversify our sources of natural gas by gaining more access to natural gas supplies from SNGs Elba Island LNG facility located on Georgias Atlantic coast near Savannah. We currently receive the majority of our natural gas supply from a production region in and around the Gulf of Mexico and generally, demand for this natural gas is growing faster than supply.
Regulatory Agreements
In July 2008, Virginia Natural Gas filed a Conservation and Ratemaking Efficiency Plan with the Virginia Commission. The plan was filed pursuant to the Natural Gas Conservation and Ratemaking Efficiency Act passed by the State of Virginia in March 2008. The act allows natural gas utilities to implement conservation programs and alternative rate designs that would allow the utilities to recover the cost of providing safe and reliable service based on normal customer usage. In October 2008, Virginia Natural Gas filed with the Virginia Commission a motion for approval of the proposed plan; which was approved by the Virginia Commission in December 2008. As part of this plan, Virginia Natural Gas intends to invest approximately $7 million over three years in new conservation programs and to implement an accompanying decoupled rate design mechanism that will help to mitigate the impact of declining usage due to conservation and provide the utility with an opportunity to recover its fixed costs.
5
In December 2007, the Florida Commission approved our request to include the amortization of certain components of the purchase price we paid for Florida City Gas in our calculation of return on equity. The costs will not be amortized for financial reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP, but will be amortized over a period of 5 to 30 years for our regulatory reporting to the Florida Commission in connection with the Florida Commissions review of Florida City Gas return on equity. Additionally and under the same order, the Florida Commission approved a five-year base rate stay-out beginning October 2007, whereby base rates will not be increased, except for certain unforeseen acts beyond our control. The five-year stay-out provision does not preclude the Florida Commission from initiating over- earning or other proceedings that may result in rate reductions.
A November 2004 agreement between Elizabethtown Gas and the New Jersey Commission approved our acquisition of NUI. This agreement included, among other things, a base rate freeze for Elizabethtown Gas for a five-year period with new rates, if approved, to go into effect no later than January 2010. Beginning with the December 2007 annual measurement period, 75% of Elizabethtown Gas earnings in excess of an 11% return on equity are shared with rate payers in the fourth and fifth years of the base rate stay-out period.
The following table provides certain regulatory information for our largest utilities.
 
Customer Demand
All of our utilities face competition from other energy products. Our principal competition is from electric utilities and oil and propane providers serving the residential and commercial markets throughout our service areas and the potential displacement or replacement of natural gas appliances with electric appliances. The primary competitive factors are the prices for competing sources of energy as compared to natural gas and the desirability of natural gas heating versus alternative heating sources.
Competition for space heating and general household and small commercial energy needs generally occurs at the initial installation phase when the customer or builder makes decisions as to which types of equipment to install. Customers generally continue to use the chosen energy source for the life of the equipment. Customer demand for natural gas could be affected by numerous factors, including:
6
Due to the general economic downturn and the decline in the housing markets in the areas we serve, we experienced lower than expected customer growth throughout 2008, a trend we expect to continue through 2009. The reduction in customer growth is primarily a result of much slower growth in the residential housing markets throughout our service territories. This trend has been offset slightly by growth in the commercial customer segment in certain areas, primarily as a result of conversions to natural gas from other fuel sources. In addition, we continue to experience some customer loss because of higher natural gas prices and competition from alternative fuel sources, including incentives offered by the local electric utilities to switch to electric alternatives.
We continue to use a variety of targeted marketing programs to attract new customers and to retain existing customers. These efforts include working to add residential customers, multifamily complexes and commercial customers who use natural gas for purposes other than space heating. In addition, we partner with numerous entities to market the benefits of gas appliances and to identify potential retention options early in the process for those customers who might consider converting to alternative fuels.
Collective Bargaining Agreements
The following table provides information about the collective bargaining agreements to which our natural gas utilities are parties. This represents approximately 12% of our total employees.
Retail Energy Operations
Our retail energy operations segment consists of SouthStar, a joint venture owned 70% by our subsidiary, Georgia Natural Gas Company, and 30% by Piedmont. SouthStar markets natural gas and related services under the trade name Georgia Natural Gas to retail customers on an unregulated basis, primarily in Georgia as well as to commercial and industrial customers, principally in Florida, Ohio, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina and Alabama. Based on its market share, SouthStar is the largest Marketer of natural gas in Georgia, with average customers in excess of 525,000 over the last three years.
SouthStar is governed by an executive committee, which is comprised of six members, three representatives from AGL Resources and three from Piedmont. Under a joint venture agreement, all significant management decisions require the unanimous approval of the SouthStar executive committee; accordingly, our 70% financial interest is considered to be noncontrolling. Although our ownership interest in the SouthStar partnership is 70%, under an amended and restated joint venture agreement executed in March 2004, SouthStar's earnings are allocated 75% to us and 25% to Piedmont except for earnings related to customers in Ohio and Florida, which are allocated 70% to us and 30% to Piedmont. We record the earnings allocated to Piedmont as net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of income, and we record Piedmonts portion of SouthStars capital as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of financial positions.
The restated agreement includes a series of options granting us the evergreen opportunity to purchase all or a portion of Piedmonts ownership interest in SouthStar. We have the right to exercise an option to purchase on or before November of each year, with the purchase being effective as of January 1, of the following year. The option, effective November 1, 2009, allows us to purchase 100% of Piedmonts ownership interest. If we were to exercise any option to purchase less than 100% of Piedmonts ownership interest in SouthStar, Piedmont, at its discretion, could require us to purchase their entire ownership interest. The purchase price, in any exercise of our option, would be based on the then current fair market value of SouthStar.
SouthStars operations are sensitive to customer consumption patterns similar to those affecting our utility operations. SouthStar uses a variety of hedging strategies, such as futures, options, swaps, weather derivative instruments and other risk management tools, to mitigate the potential effect of these issues and commodity price risk on its operations. For more information on SouthStars derivative instrument activities, see Energy Marketing and Risk Management Activities in Item 7a, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Commodity Price Risk of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
7
SouthStar competes with other energy marketers to provide natural gas and related services to customers in Georgia and the Southeast. SouthStars operation in Georgia is currently in direct competition with other Marketers to provide natural gas to customers in Georgia. In addition, similar to our distribution operations, SouthStar faces competition based on customer preferences for natural gas compared to other energy products and the comparative prices of those products. Also, price volatility in the wholesale natural gas commodity market and related significant increases in the cost of natural gas billed to SouthStars customers have contributed to an increase in competition for residential and commercial customers.
Competition
 
SouthStar generates operating margin primarily in three ways. The first is through the sale of natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers, primarily in Georgia where SouthStar captures a spread between wholesale and retail natural gas prices. The second is through the collection of monthly service fees and customer late payment fees.
Operating margin
 
SouthStar evaluates the combination of these two retail price components to ensure such pricing is structured to cover related retail customer costs, such as bad debt expense, customer service and billing, and lost and unaccounted-for gas, and to provide a reasonable profit, as well as being competitive to attract new customers and maintain market share. SouthStars operating margin is affected by seasonal weather, natural gas prices, customer growth and their related market share in Georgia, which has historically been in excess of approximately 34%, based on customer count. SouthStar employs strategies to attract and retain a higher credit-quality customer base. These strategies result not only in higher operating margin, as these customers tend to utilize higher volumes of natural gas, but also help to mitigate bad debt expense due to the higher credit-quality of these customers.
The third way SouthStar generates operating margin is through its commercial operations of optimizing storage and transportation assets and effectively managing commodity risk, which enables SouthStar to maintain competitive retail prices and operating margin. SouthStar is allocated storage and pipeline capacity that is used to supply natural gas to its customers in Georgia. Through hedging transactions, SouthStar manages exposures arising from changing commodity prices using natural gas storage transactions to capture operating margin from natural gas pricing differences that occur over time. SouthStars risk management policies allow the use of derivative instruments for hedging and risk management purposes but prohibit the use of derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
SouthStar accounts for its natural gas inventories at the LOCOM price. SouthStar evaluates the weighted average cost of its natural gas inventories against market prices and determines whether any declines in market prices below the weighted average cost are other than temporary. For declines considered to be other than temporary, SouthStar records adjustments to the cost of gas (LOCOM adjustments) in our consolidated statement of income to reduce the weighted average cost of the natural gas inventory to the current market price. SouthStar recorded the following LOCOM adjustments.
SouthStar also enters into weather derivative instruments to stabilize operating margin profits in the event of warmer-than-normal and colder-than-normal weather in the winter months. These contracts are accounted for using the intrinsic value method under EITF 99-02 The weather derivative contracts contain settlement provisions based on cumulative heating degree days for the covered periods. SouthStar entered into weather derivatives (swaps and options) for the last three heating seasons. The net gains or losses on these weather derivatives were largely offset by corresponding decreases or increases in operating margin due to the warmer or colder weather the hedges were designed to protect against.
.
Wholesale Services
Our wholesale services segment consists primarily of Sequent, our subsidiary involved in asset management and optimization, storage, transportation, producer and peaking services and wholesale marketing. Sequent seeks asset optimization opportunities, which focus on capturing the value from idle or underutilized assets, typically by participating in transactions to take advantage of pricing differences between varying markets and time horizons within the natural gas supply, storage and transportation markets to generate earnings. These activities are generally referred to as arbitrage opportunities.
Sequents profitability is driven by volatility in the natural gas marketplace. Volatility arises from a number of factors such as weather fluctuations or the change in supply of, or demand for, natural gas in different regions of the country. Sequent seeks to capture value from the price disparity across geographic locations and various time horizons (location and seasonal spreads). In doing so, Sequent also seeks to mitigate the risks associated with this volatility and protect its margin through a variety of risk management and economic hedging activities.
8
Sequent provides its customers with natural gas from the major producing regions and market hubs in the U.S. and Canada. Sequent acquires transportation and storage capacity to meet its delivery requirements and customer obligations in the marketplace. Sequents customers benefit from its logistics expertise and ability to deliver natural gas at prices that are advantageous relative to other alternatives available to its customers.
The following graph presents the NYMEX forward natural gas prices as of December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007 and September 30, 2008, for the period of January 2009 through December 2009, and reflects the prices at which Sequent could buy natural gas at the Henry Hub for delivery in the same time period. The Henry Hub is the largest centralized point for natural gas spot and futures trading in the United States. The NYMEX uses the Henry Hub as the point of delivery for its natural gas futures contracts. Many natural gas marketers also use the Henry Hub as their physical contract delivery point or their price benchmark for spot trades of natural gas.
Storage inventory outlook
 
Sequents expected natural gas withdrawals from physical salt dome and reservoir storage are presented in the following table along with the operating revenues expected at the time of withdrawal. Sequents expected operating revenues are net of the estimated impact of regulatory sharing and reflect the amounts that are realizable in future periods based on the inventory withdrawal schedule and forward natural gas prices at December 31, 2008. Sequents storage inventory is economically hedged with futures contracts, which results in an overall locked-in margin, timing notwithstanding.
 
 
Due to the storage hedge gains and LOCOM adjustments reported in 2008, Sequent expects no additional operating revenue in 2009 from storage withdrawals of existing inventory. Expected operating revenues will change in the future as Sequent injects natural gas into inventory, adjusts its injection and withdrawal plans in response to changes in market conditions in future months and as forward NYMEX prices fluctuate. For more information on Sequents derivative instrument activities, see Energy Marketing and Risk Management Activities in Item 7a, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Commodity Price Risk of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Sequent competes for asset management contracts with other energy wholesalers, often through a competitive bidding process.
Competition
 
Sequents asset management customers include affiliated utilities, nonaffiliated utilities, municipal utilities, power generators and large industrial customers. These customers, due to seasonal demand or levels of activity, may have contracts for transportation and storage capacity, which may exceed their actual requirements. Sequent enters into structured agreements with these customers, whereby Sequent, on behalf of the customer, optimizes the transportation and storage capacity during periods when customers do not use it for their own needs. Sequent may capture incremental operating margin through optimization, and either share margins with the customers or pay them a fixed amount
Asset Management Transactions
 
.
The FERC recently issued Order 712, which clarifies capacity release rules for asset management relationships. As Order 712 has removed uncertainties associated with certain aspects of some asset management services, we expect there may be an increase in customers seeking these services during 2009. This could provide us with additional opportunities in this portion of Sequents business. Until the market further develops under the requirements of Order 712, we are unable to predict what impact this may have on our wholesale business.
9
Sequent is actively negotiating the renewal of its remaining affiliate asset management agreement with Virginia Natural Gas scheduled to expire in 2009. The following table provides information on Sequents asset management agreements with affiliated utilities.
Sequent contracts for natural gas transportation capacity and participates in transactions that manage the natural gas commodity and transportation costs in an attempt to achieve the lowest cost to serve its various markets. Sequent seeks to optimize this process on a daily basis as market conditions change by evaluating all the natural gas supplies, transportation alternatives and markets to which it has access and identifying the lowest-cost alternatives to serve the various markets. This enables Sequent to capture geographic pricing differences across these various markets as delivered natural gas prices change.
Transportation Transactions
 
As Sequent executes transactions to secure transportation capacity, it often enters into forward financial contracts to hedge its positions and lock-in a margin on future transportation activities. The hedging instruments are derivatives, and Sequent reflects changes in the derivatives fair value in its reported operating results in the period of change, which can be in periods prior to actual utilization of the transportation capacity. The following table lists Sequents reported unrealized gains associated with transportation capacity hedges. In prior years, these amounts have been realized as these positions settle in subsequent periods, and this is expected to be the case for unrealized gains in 2008.
During 2008, Sequent negotiated an agreement for 40,000 dekatherms per day of transportation capacity for a period of 25 years beginning in August 2009. Upon execution of this agreement, we will include approximately $89 million of future demand payments associated with this capacity within our unrecorded contractual obligations and commitment disclosures. As with its other transportation capacity agreements, Sequent has and will identify opportunities to lock-in economic value associated with this capacity through the use of financial hedges. Since the duration of this agreement will be significantly longer than the average duration of Sequents portfolio, the hedging of the capacity has increased our exposure to hedge gains and losses as well as potentially increasing VaR once the contract is executed. During the third quarter of 2008, we began executing hedging transactions related to this transportation capacity, and recorded associated hedge gains of $9 million during 2008 associated with this capacity; however there was no significant impact to VaR due to the effect of other positions in the portfolio.
Sequents producer services business primarily focuses on aggregating natural gas supply from various small and medium-sized producers located throughout the natural gas production areas of the United States. Sequent provides producers with certain logistical and risk management services that offer them attractive options to move their supply into the pipeline grid.
Producer Services
 
Sequent routinely enters into park and loan transactions with various pipelines, which allow Sequent to park gas on, or borrow gas from, the pipeline in one period and reclaim gas from, or repay gas to, the pipeline in a subsequent period. The economics of these transactions are evaluated and price risks are managed in much the same way traditional reservoir and salt dome storage transactions are evaluated and managed.
Park and Loan Transactions
 
Sequent enters into forward NYMEX contracts to hedge its park and loan transactions. While the hedging instruments mitigate the price risk associated with the delivery and receipt of natural gas, they can also result in volatility in Sequents reported results during the period before the initial delivery or receipt of natural gas. During this period, if the forward NYMEX prices in the months of delivery and receipt do not change in equal amounts, Sequent will report a net unrealized gain or loss on the hedges.
Sequents results were affected by unrealized hedge gains on park and loan activities of $9 million during 2008, but Sequent had no significant gains or losses on park and loan hedges during 2007 or 2006.
10
Sequent purchases natural gas for storage when the current market price it pays plus the cost for transportation and storage is less than the market price it anticipates it could receive in the future. Sequent attempts to mitigate substantially all of the commodity price risk associated with its storage portfolio and uses derivative instruments to reduce the risk associated with future changes in the price of natural gas. Sequent sells NYMEX futures contracts or OTC derivatives in forward months to substantially lock in the operating revenue it will ultimately realize when the stored gas is actually sold.
Mark-to-Market Versus Lower of Average Cost or Market
 
We view Sequents trading margins from two perspectives. First, we base our commercial decisions on economic value, which is defined as the locked-in operating revenue to be realized at the time the physical gas is withdrawn from storage and sold and the derivative instrument used to economically hedge natural gas price risk on that physical storage is settled. Second is the GAAP reported value both in periods prior to and in the period of physical withdrawal and sale of inventory. The GAAP amount is affected by the process of accounting for the financial hedging instruments in interim periods at fair value between the period when the natural gas is injected into storage and when it is ultimately withdrawn and the financial instruments are settled. The change in the fair value of the hedging instruments is recognized in earnings in the period of change and is recorded as unrealized gains or losses. The actual value, less any interim recognition of gains or losses on hedges and adjustments for LOCOM, is realized when the natural gas is delivered to its ultimate customer.
Sequent accounts for natural gas stored in inventory differently than the derivatives Sequent uses to mitigate the commodity price risk associated with its storage portfolio. The natural gas that Sequent purchases and injects into storage is accounted for at the lower of average cost or current market value. The derivatives that Sequent uses to mitigate commodity price risk are accounted for at fair value and marked to market each period. This difference in accounting treatment can result in volatility in Sequents reported results, even though the expected operating revenue is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were initiated. These accounting differences also affect the comparability of Sequents period-over-period results, since changes in forward NYMEX prices do not increase and decrease on a consistent basis from year to year.
During the first half of 2008, the reported results were negatively affected by sharp increases in forward NYMEX prices, but in the second half of 2008 forward NYMEX prices dropped to below 2007 levels. The overall result was more significant unrealized gains during 2008, which contributed to the favorable variance between 2008 and 2007. During most of 2007 and 2006, Sequents reported results were positively affected by decreases in forward NYMEX prices, which resulted in the recognition of unrealized gains; however, the effect was more significant for 2006. As a result the more significant unrealized gains during 2006 increased the unfavorable variance between 2007 and 2006.
Energy Investments
Our energy investments segment includes a number of businesses that are related and complementary to our primary business. The most significant of these businesses is our natural gas storage business, which develops, acquires and operates high-deliverability salt-dome and other storage assets in the Gulf Coast region of the United States. While this business also can generate additional revenue during times of peak market demand for natural gas storage services, the majority of our storage services are covered under a portfolio of short, medium and long-term contracts at a fixed market rate.
This wholly owned subsidiary operates a salt dome storage and hub facility in Louisiana, approximately eight miles from the Henry Hub. The storage facility is regulated by the Louisiana DNR and by the FERC, which has limited regulatory authority over storage and transportation services. Jefferson Island provides storage and hub services through its direct connection to the Henry Hub via the Sabine Pipeline and its interconnection with eight other pipelines in the area. Jefferson Islands entire portfolio is under firm subscription for the current heating season.
Jefferson Island
In August 2006, the Office of Mineral Resources of the Louisiana DNR informed Jefferson Island that its mineral lease  which authorizes salt extraction to create two new storage caverns  at Lake Peigneur had been terminated. The Louisiana DNR identified two bases for the termination: (1) failure to make certain mining leasehold payments in a timely manner, and (2) the absence of salt mining operations for six months.
In September 2006, Jefferson Island filed suit against the State of Louisiana, in the 19 Judicial District Court in Baton Rouge, to maintain its lease to complete an ongoing natural gas storage expansion project in Louisiana. The project would add two salt dome storage caverns under Lake Peigneur to the two caverns currently owned and operated by Jefferson Island. In its suit, Jefferson Island alleges that the Louisiana DNR accepted all leasehold payments without reservation and never provided Jefferson Island with notice and opportunity to cure the alleged late payments, as required by state law. In its answer to the suit, the State denied that anyone with proper authority approved late payments. As to the second basis for termination, the suit contends that Jefferson Islands lease with the State of Louisiana was amended in 2004 so that mining operations are no longer required to maintain the lease. The States answer denies that the 2004 amendment was properly authorized. In March 2008, Jefferson Island served discovery requests on the State of Louisiana and sought a trial date in this lawsuit. Jefferson Island also asserted additional claims against the State seeking to obtain a declaratory ruling that Jefferson Islands surface lease, under which it operates its existing two storage caverns, authorizes the creation of the two new expansion caverns separate and apart from the mineral lease challenged by the State.
th
11
In addition, in June 2008, the State of Louisiana passed legislation restricting water usage from the Chicot aquifer, which is a main source of fresh water required for the expansion of our Jefferson Island capacity. We contend that this legislation is unconstitutional and have sought to amend the pending litigation to seek a declaration that the legislation is invalid and cannot be enforced. Even if we are not successful on those grounds, we believe the legislation does not materially impact the feasibility of the expansion project. During 2008 and early 2009 we aggressively pursued our litigation. However, we are not able to predict the outcome of the litigation. As of January 2009, our current estimate of costs incurred that would be considered unusable if the Louisiana DNR was successful in terminating our lease and causing us to cease the expansion project is approximately $6 million.
In December 2006, we announced that our wholly-owned subsidiary, Golden Triangle Storage, plans to build a natural gas storage facility in the Beaumont, Texas area in the Spindletop salt dome. The project will initially consist of two underground salt dome storage caverns approximately a half-mile to a mile below ground that will hold about 12 Bcf of working natural gas storage capacity initially, or a total cavern capacity of approximately 17 Bcf. The facility potentially can be expanded to a total of five caverns with 38 Bcf of working natural gas storage capacity in the future based on customer interest. Golden Triangle Storage also intends to build an approximately nine-mile dual 24 natural gas pipeline to connect the storage facility with three interstate and three intrastate pipelines. In May 2007, Golden Triangle Storage held a non-binding open season for service offerings at the proposed facility, which resulted in indications of market support for the facility.
Golden Triangle Storage
 
In December 2007, Golden Triangle Storage received an order from the FERC granting a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity to construct and operate the storage facility and approving market-based rates for services to be provided. We accepted this FERC order in January 2008. The FERC will serve as the lead agency overseeing the participation of a number of other federal, state and local agencies in reviewing and permitting the facility. In May 2008, Golden Triangle Storage started construction on the first cavern. Hurricanes Gustav and Ike caused some damage and minor delays in September 2008, but our timelines associated with commencement of commercial operations remain on schedule.
We previously estimated, based on then current prices for labor, materials and pad gas, that costs to construct the facility would be approximately $265 million. However, prices for labor and materials have risen significantly in the ensuing months, increasing the current estimated construction cost by approximately 10% to 20%. The actual project costs depend upon the facilitys configuration, materials, drilling costs, financing costs and the amount and cost of pad gas, which includes volumes of non-working natural gas used to maintain the operational integrity of the cavern facility. The costs for approximately 64% of these items have not been fixed and are subject to continued variability during construction. Further, since we are not able to predict whether these costs of construction will continue to increase, moderate or decrease from current levels, we believe that there could be continued volatility in the construction cost estimates.
This wholly owned subsidiary provides telecommunications conduit and available for use or dark fiber optic cable. AGL Networks leases and sells its fiber to a variety of customers in the Atlanta, Georgia and Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan areas, with a small presence in other cities in the United States. Its customers include local, regional and national telecommunications companies, internet service providers, educational institutions and other commercial entities. AGL Networks typically provides underground conduit and dark fiber to its customers under leasing arrangements with terms that vary from one to twenty years. In addition, AGL Networks offers telecommunications construction services to its customers. AGL Networks competitors are any entities that have laid or will lay conduit and fiber on the same route as AGL Networks in the respective metropolitan areas.
AGL Networks
12
Corporate
Our corporate segment includes our nonoperating business units, including AGSC and AGL Capital. AGL Capital, our wholly owned subsidiary, provides for our ongoing financing needs through a commercial paper program, the issuance of various debt and hybrid securities, and other financing arrangements.
We allocate substantially all of AGSCs operating expenses and interest costs to our operating segments in accordance with state regulations. Our corporate segment also includes intercompany eliminations for transactions between our operating business segments. Our EBIT results include the impact of these allocations to the various operating segments.
Our corporate segment also includes Pivotal Energy Development, which coordinates among our related operating segments the development, construction or acquisition of assets, such as storage facilities, related and complementary to our primary businesses within the southeastern, mid-Atlantic and northeastern regions in order to extend our natural gas capabilities and improve system reliability while enhancing service to our customers in those areas. The focus of Pivotal Energy Developments commercial activities is to improve the economics of system reliability and natural gas deliverability in these targeted regions.
Employees
As of January 31, 2009, we employed a total of 2,389 employees, and we believe that our relations with them are good.
Additional Information
For additional information on our segments, see Exhibit 99.3, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations recast as required under the provisions of SFAS 160 under the caption Results of Operations and Exhibit 99.4, Item 8, Updated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, recast as required under the provisions of SFAS 160 under the caption Note 9, Segment Information.
Information on our environmental remediation efforts, is contained in Exhibit 99.4, Item 8, Updated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, recast as required under the provisions of SFAS 160 under the caption  Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies.
Hedges
Changes in commodity prices subject a significant portion of our operations to earnings variability. Our nonutility businesses principally use physical and financial arrangements to reduce the risks associated with both weather-related seasonal fluctuations in market conditions and changing commodity prices. In addition, because these economic hedges may not qualify, or are not designated for hedge accounting treatment, our reported earnings for the wholesale services and retail energy operations segments reflect changes in the fair values of certain derivatives. These values may change significantly from period to period and are reflected as gains or losses within our operating revenues or our OCI for those derivative instruments that qualify and are designated as accounting hedges.
Elizabethtown Gas utilizes certain derivatives in accordance with a directive from the New Jersey Commission to create a hedging program to hedge the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas prices. These derivative products are accounted for at fair value each reporting period. In accordance with regulatory requirements, realized gains and losses related to these derivatives are reflected in purchased gas costs and ultimately included in billings to customers. Unrealized gains and losses are reflected as a regulatory asset or liability, as appropriate, in our condensed consolidated statements of financial position.
Seasonality
The operating revenues and EBIT of our distribution operations, retail energy operations and wholesale services segments are seasonal. During the heating season, natural gas usage and operating revenues are generally higher because more customers are connected to our distribution systems and natural gas usage is higher in periods of colder weather than in periods of warmer weather. Occasionally in the summer, Sequents operating revenues are impacted due to peak usage by power generators in response to summer energy demands. Seasonality also affects the comparison of certain statement of financial position items such as receivables, unbilled revenue, inventories and short-term debt across quarters. However, these items are comparable when reviewing our annual results.
Approximately 65% of these segments operating revenues and 74% of these segments EBIT for the year ended December 31, 2008 were generated during the first and fourth quarters of 2008, and are reflected in our statements of consolidated income for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and December 31, 2008. Our base operating expenses, excluding cost of gas, interest expense and certain incentive compensation costs, are incurred relatively equally over any given year. Thus, our operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonality.
 
 
13
 
Available Information
Detailed information about us is contained in our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports, and amendments to those reports, that we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. These reports are available free of charge at our website, , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with or furnish such reports to the SEC. However, our website and any contents thereof should not be considered to be incorporated by reference into this document. We will furnish copies of such reports free of charge upon written request to our Investor Relations department. You can contact our Investor Relations department at:
www.aglresources.com
 
 AGL Resources Inc.
 Investor Relations - Dept. 1071
 P.O. Box 4569
 Atlanta, GA 30309-4569
 
404-584-3801
 
In Part III of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, we incorporate by reference from our Proxy Statement for our 2009 annual meeting of shareholders certain information. We expect to file that Proxy Statement with the SEC on or about March 16, 2009, and we will make it available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable. Please refer to the Proxy Statement when it is available.
Additionally, our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics, code of business conduct and the charters of each of our Board of Directors committees are available on our website. We will furnish copies of such information free of charge upon written request to our Investor Relations department.
 
14
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
Selected financial data about AGL Resources for the last five years is set forth in the table below. You should read the data in the table in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Exhibit 99.4, Updated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS
 
2
 
 
3
 
MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Overview
We are an energy services holding company whose principal business is the distribution of natural gas in six states - Florida, Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, Tennessee and Virginia. Our six utilities serve more than 2.2 million end-use customers, making us the largest distributor of natural gas in the southeastern and mid-Atlantic regions of the United States based on customer count. We are involved in various related businesses, including retail natural gas marketing to end-use customers primarily in Georgia; natural gas asset management and related logistics activities for our own utilities as well as for nonaffiliated companies; natural gas storage arbitrage and related activities; and the development and operation of high-deliverability underground natural gas storage assets. We also own and operate a small telecommunications business that constructs and operates conduit and fiber infrastructure within select metropolitan areas. We manage these businesses through four operating segments  distribution operations, retail energy operations, wholesale services and energy investments  and a nonoperating corporate segment.
The distribution operations segment is the largest component of our business and is subject to regulation and oversight by agencies in each of the six states we serve. These agencies approve natural gas rates designed to provide us the opportunity to generate revenues to recover the cost of natural gas delivered to our customers and our fixed and variable costs such as depreciation, interest, maintenance and overhead costs, and to earn a reasonable return for our shareholders. With the exception of Atlanta Gas Light, our largest utility, the earnings of our regulated utilities can be affected by customer consumption patterns that are a function of weather conditions, price levels for natural gas and general economic conditions that may impact their ability to pay for gas consumed. Various mechanisms exist that limit our exposure to weather changes within typical ranges in all of our jurisdictions. Our retail energy operations segment, which consists of SouthStar, also is weather sensitive and uses a variety of hedging strategies, such as weather derivative instruments and other risk management tools, to mitigate potential weather impacts. Our Sequent subsidiary within our wholesale services segment is temperature insensitive, but generally has greater opportunity to capture operating margin due to price volatility as a result of extreme weather. Our energy investments segments primary activity is our natural gas storage business, which develops, acquires and operates high-deliverability salt-dome storage assets in the Gulf Coast region of the United States. While this business also can generate additional revenue during times of peak market demand for natural gas storage services, the majority of our storage services are covered under medium to long-term contracts at a fixed market rate.
Executive Summary
We continue to see challenging economic conditions in all of the areas we serve and, as a result, have experienced lower than expected customer growth in our distribution operations and retail energy operations segments throughout 2008, a trend we expect to continue through 2009.
Customer growth
For the year ended December 31, 2008, our consolidated utility customer growth rate was 0.1%, compared to 0.9% for 2007. We anticipated customer growth in 2008 of about 0.5%. The lower levels of customer growth are primarily a result of much slower growth in the residential housing markets throughout our service territories. This trend has been offset slightly by growth in the commercial customer segment in certain areas, primarily as a result of conversions to natural gas from other fuel sources.
We continue to use a variety of targeted marketing programs to attract new customers and to retain existing ones. These programs generally emphasize natural gas as the fuel of choice for customers and seek to expand the use of natural gas through a variety of promotional activities.
We have seen a 3% decline in average customer count at SouthStar for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to 2007. This decline reflects some of the same economic conditions that have affected our utility businesses; as well as a more competitive retail pricing market for natural gas in Georgia.
Increased energy and transportation prices are expected to impact a significantly larger portion of consumer household incomes during the current winter heating season. As a result, we may incur additional bad debt expense, as well as lower operating margins, due to increased customer conservation. While these factors could adversely impact our results of operations, we expect regulatory and operational mechanisms in place in most of our jurisdictions will help to mitigate some of our exposure to these factors.
Natural gas prices
The risks of increased bad debt expense and decreased operating margins from conservation are minimized at our largest utility, Atlanta Gas Light, as a result of its straight-fixed variable rate structure. In addition, customers in Georgia buy their natural gas from Marketers rather than from Atlanta Gas Light. Our credit exposure at Atlanta Gas Light is primarily related to the provision of services to the Marketers, but that exposure is mitigated, as we obtain security support in an amount equal to a minimum of no less than two times a Marketers highest months estimated bill. At our other utilities, while customer conservation could adversely impact our operating margins, we utilize measures to collect delinquent accounts and continue to be rigorous in monitoring and mitigating the impact of these expenses. We do, however, expect that our bad debt expense for the current winter heating season will be higher than the prior year.
4
We worked with regulators and state agencies in each of our jurisdictions to educate customers about higher energy costs in advance of the winter heating season, in particular to ensure that those qualified for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program and other similar programs receive any needed assistance.
SouthStar may also be affected by the conservation and bad debt trends, but its overall exposure is partially mitigated by the high credit quality of SouthStars customer base, disciplined collection practices and the unregulated pricing structure in Georgia.
The rising commodity prices during the first six months of 2008, along with reduced opportunities related to the management of storage and transportation assets throughout 2008 negatively affected SouthStars operating margin. More favorable market conditions and decreasing natural gas prices in the first six months of 2007 as compared to rising prices during the same time frame in 2008 enabled SouthStar to recognize higher operating margins for 2007 as compared to 2008. SouthStars reported results were also negatively impacted during 2008 by the significant decrease in natural gas prices during the second half of the year as SouthStar was required to record $24 million of LOCOM adjustments to reduce its natural gas inventory to market value.
Due to the rising commodity price environment and the widening of transportation basis spreads during the first six months of 2008, Sequent recorded $70 million in losses on the financial instruments it used to hedge its storage and transportation positions. The natural gas market remained volatile with significant decreases in prices and narrowing of basis spreads during the second half of 2008. Consequently Sequent recognized gains on hedging instruments of $52 million for 2008. This is a $35 million net increase compared to 2007. In addition to the increase in hedge gains, Sequents commercial activity improved by $25 million for 2008 over 2007, due to more favorable business opportunities presented by the greater volatility in the marketplace. In addition, the decrease in forward prices caused Sequent to be subject to a LOCOM adjustment on its natural gas inventory. The increase in the impact of the adjustment, net of estimated hedging recoveries, was $15 million for 2008 from the prior year. These changes resulted in Sequent reporting operating margin that was $45 million higher for 2008, as compared to 2007.
Results of Operations
We generate nearly all our operating revenues through the sale, distribution and storage of natural gas. We include in our consolidated revenues an estimate of revenues from natural gas distributed, but not yet billed, to residential and commercial customers from the latest meter reading date to the end of the reporting period. The following table provides more information regarding the components of our operating revenues.
Revenues
 
We evaluate the performance of our operating segments using the measures of operating margin and EBIT. We believe operating margin is a better indicator than operating revenues for the contribution resulting from customer growth in our distribution operations segment since the cost of gas can vary significantly and is generally billed directly to our customers. We also consider operating margin to be a better indicator in our retail energy operations, wholesale services and energy investments segments since it is a direct measure of operating margin before overhead costs. We believe EBIT is a useful measurement of our operating segments performance because it provides information that can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of our businesses from an operational perspective, exclusive of the costs to finance those activities and exclusive of income taxes, neither of which is directly relevant to the efficiency of those operations.
Operating margin and EBIT
Our operating margin and EBIT are not measures that are considered to be calculated in accordance with GAAP. You should not consider operating margin or EBIT an alternative to, or a more meaningful indicator of, our operating performance than operating income or net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
5
 
In addition, our operating margin and EBIT measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. The table below sets forth a reconciliation of our operating margin and EBIT to our operating income, earnings before income taxes and net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc., together with other consolidated financial information for the last three years.
 
In 2008 our net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. increased by $6 million from the prior year primarily due to increased EBIT from wholesale services and energy investments largely due to higher operating margin. This was offset by decreased EBIT at distribution operations and retail energy operations due to lower operating margins as compared to 2007. Additionally, distribution operations EBIT contribution decreased due to higher operating expenses as compared to 2007. Our basic earnings per common share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. increased by $0.11 and our diluted earnings per common share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. increased by $0.12, primarily due to our increased earnings and the reduction in the average number of common shares outstanding as a result of purchases made under our share repurchase program during 2007.
In 2007 our net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. decreased by $1 million from 2006 primarily due to decreased EBIT from wholesale services largely due to lower operating margin. This was offset by increased EBIT at distribution operations, retail energy operations and energy investments due to higher operating margins as compared to 2006. Additionally, distribution operations EBIT contribution increased due to lower operating expenses as compared to 2006. Our basic earnings per common share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. increased by $0.01, primarily due to the reduction in the average number of shares outstanding as a result of our share repurchase program. Our diluted earnings per common share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. were unchanged from 2006.
Selected weather, customer and volume metrics for 2008, 2007 and 2006, which we consider to be some of the key performance indicators for our operating segments, are presented in the following tables. We measure the effects of weather on our business through heating degree days. Generally, increased heating degree days result in greater demand for gas on our distribution systems. However, extended and unusually mild weather during the heating season can have a significant negative impact on demand for natural gas. Our marketing and customer retention initiatives are measured by our customer metrics which can be impacted by natural gas prices, economic conditions and competition from alternative fuels. Volume metrics for distribution operations and retail energy operations present the effects of weather and our customers demand for natural gas. Wholesale services daily physical sales represent the daily average natural gas volumes sold to its customers.
Operating metrics
 
6
 
 
                      
 
 
7
 
Operating revenues, operating margin, operating expenses and EBIT information for each of our segments are contained in the following tables for the last three years.
Segment information
Our operating margin in 2008 increased by $21 million or 2% compared to 2007 primarily due to higher operating margins at wholesale services and energy investments segments, partially offset by decreased operating margin at our retail energy operations segment. In 2007 our operating margin decreased $14 million or 1% compared to 2006 primarily due to lower operating margin at our wholesale services segment.
Operating margin
The 2008 operating margin for distribution operations decreased by $2 million, compared to 2007, primarily due to lower customer growth and use of natural gas, offset by an increase in revenues from Atlanta Gas Lights pipeline replacement program (PRP).
Distribution operations
Distribution operations 2007 operating margin increased $13 million or 2% compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in customers and slightly overall higher customer use of natural gas. The following table indicates the significant changes in distribution operations operating margin for 2008 and 2007.
 
The 2008 operating margin for retail energy operations decreased $39 million or 21% compared to 2007. This was primarily due to a reduction of customers in Georgia, lower contributions from the optimization and management of storage and transportation assets and a $24 million LOCOM adjustment. Retail energy operations did not record a similar LOCOM adjustment in 2007. While 2008 was 16% colder than 2007, and 2007 was 4% warmer than 2006, retail energy operations use of weather derivatives largely offset the effects of weather in operating margin.
Retail energy operations
Retail energy operations 2007 operating margin increased $32 million or 21% compared to 2006. This was primarily due to an increase in customer use of natural gas in Georgia and the combination of retail price spreads and contributions from the optimization of storage and transportation assets and commodity risk management activities. The following table indicates the significant changes in retail energy operations operating margin for 2008 and 2007.
The 2008 operating margin for wholesale services increased $45 million or 58% compared to 2007. This increase was due to a $35 million increase in reported hedge gains and a $25 million increase in commercial activity, due in part to increased inventory storage and transportation spreads and higher volatility in the marketplace. These increases were partially offset by a $36 million increase in the required LOCOM adjustments to natural gas inventories for the year ended December 31, 2008, net of $21 million in estimated hedging recoveries.
Wholesale services
8
Wholesale services 2007 operating margin decreased $62 million or 45% compared to 2006. This decrease was due to a reduction in hedge gains and commercial activity, due in part to reduced inventory storage spreads and lower volatility in the marketplace.
The following table indicates the significant changes in wholesale services operating margin for 2008 and 2007.
For more information on Sequents expected operating revenues from its storage inventory in 2009 and discussion of increased commercial activity in 2008 compared to 2007, see the description of the wholesale services business in Exhibit 99.1, Business.
The 2008 operating margin for energy investments increased $10 million or 25% compared to 2007. Its 2007 operating margin increased $4 million or 11% from the prior year, primarily due to a larger customer base and customer construction projects at AGL Networks and increased revenues at Jefferson Island as a result of increased interruptible margin opportunities. The following table indicates the significant changes in energy investments operating margin for 2008 and 2007.
Energy investments
Our operating expenses in 2008 increased $32 million or 5% from 2007, which decreased $15 million or 2% from 2006. The following table indicates the significant changes in our operating expenses.
Operating expenses
 
Our 2008 other income (expenses) increased by $2 million compared to 2007 primarily from increased capitalization for regulatory allowances for funds used during distribution operations construction projects. Our 2007 other income increased by $5 million as compared to 2006 primarily due to lower charitable contributions at distribution operations and retail energy operations.
Other income
(expenses)
The decreased interest expense of $10 million or 8% in 2008 as compared to 2007 was due primarily to lower short-term interest rates partially offset by higher average debt outstanding and a $3 million premium paid for the early redemption of the $75 million notes payable to AGL Capital Trust I, which was recorded as interest expense in 2007.
Interest expense
9
The increased interest expense of $2 million or 2% in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to higher short-term interest rates and the $3 million premium previously discussed. The following table provides additional detail on interest expense for the last three years and the primary items that affect year-over-year change.
 
The increase in income tax expense of $5 million or 4% in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher consolidated earnings and a slightly higher effective tax rate of 37.8% in 2008 compared to an effective tax rate of 37.6% in 2007.
Income tax expense
The decrease in income tax expense of $2 million or 2% in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to lower consolidated earnings and a slightly lower effective tax rate of 37.6% in 2007 compared to an effective tax rate of 37.8% in 2006. For more information on our income taxes see Exhibit 99.4, Note 8 Income Taxes.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash provided by operating activities, short-term borrowings under our commercial paper program (which is supported by our Credit Facilities), borrowings from our Credit Facilities and borrowings under our Sequent and SouthStar lines of credit. Additionally from time to time, we raise funds from the public debt and equity capital markets through our existing shelf registration statement to fund our liquidity and capital resource needs.
Overview
Our issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by state and federal regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and the SEC. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our consolidated assets, earnings and cash flow is derived from the operation of our regulated utility subsidiaries, whose legal authority to pay dividends or make other distributions to us is subject to regulation.
We believe the amounts available to us under our Credit Facilities and the issuance of debt and equity securities together with cash provided by operating activities will continue to allow us to meet our needs for working capital, pension contributions, construction expenditures, anticipated debt redemptions, interest payments on debt obligations, dividend payments, common share repurchases and other cash needs through the next several years. Nevertheless, our ability to satisfy our working capital requirements and debt service obligations, or fund planned capital expenditures, will substantially depend upon our future operating performance (which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions), and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.
We will continue to evaluate our need to increase available liquidity based on our view of working capital requirements, including the impact of changes in natural gas prices, liquidity requirements established by rating agencies and other factors. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 for additional information on items that could impact our liquidity and capital resource requirements. The following table provides a summary of our operating, investing and financing activities for the last three years.
We prepare our statement of cash flows using the indirect method. Under this method, we reconcile net income to cash flows from operating activities by adjusting net income for those items that impact net income but may not result in actual cash receipts or payments during the period. These reconciling items include depreciation and amortization, changes in derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities, deferred income taxes and changes in the consolidated statement of financial position for working capital from the beginning to the end of the period.
Cash Flow from Operating Activities
Our operations are seasonal in nature, with the business depending to a great extent on the first and fourth quarters of each year. As a result of this seasonality, our natural gas inventories are usually at their highest levels in November each year, and largely are drawn down in the heating season, providing a source of cash as this asset is used to satisfy winter sales demand. The establishment and price fluctuations of our natural gas inventories, which meet customer demand during the winter heating season, can cause significant variations in our cash flow from operations from period to period and are reflected in changes to our working capital.
Year-over-year changes in our operating cash flows are attributable primarily to working capital changes within our distribution operations, retail energy operations and wholesale services segments resulting from the impact of weather, the price of natural gas, the timing of customer collections, payments for natural gas purchases and deferred gas cost recoveries as our business has grown and prices for natural gas have increased. The increase in natural gas prices directly impacts the cost of gas stored in inventory.
10
In 2008, our net cash flow provided from operating activities was $227 million, a decrease of $150 million or 40% from 2007. This decrease was primarily a result of increased working capital requirements of $104 million, principally driven by increased cash used for inventory purchases which were impacted by rising natural gas prices during the first half of 2008.
2008 compared to 2007
In 2007, our net cash flow provided from operating activities was $377 million, an increase of $23 million or 6% from 2006. The increase was due to higher realized gains on our derivative instrument assets and liabilities and lower cash requirements for our natural gas inventories due to price and inventory volume fluctuations. This was offset by increased cash payments for income taxes due to realized gains on our derivative instrument activities and higher working capital requirements.
2007 compared to 2006
Our net cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of PP&E expenditures. The majority of our PP&E expenditures are within our distribution operations segment, which includes our investments in new construction and infrastructure improvements.
Cash Flow from Investing Activities
Our estimated PP&E expenditures of approximately $453 million in 2009 and actual expenditures of $372 million in 2008, $259 million in 2007 and $253 million in 2006 are shown within the following categories and are presented in the chart below.
In 2008, our PP&E expenditures were $113 million or 44% higher than in 2007. This was primarily due to an increase in our natural gas storage project expenditures of $48 million as we began construction of our Golden Triangle Storage facility, $43 million in increased expenditures for the Hampton Roads project and increased expenditures of $29 million for PRP as we replaced larger-diameter pipe in more densely populated areas. This was offset by decreased expenditures of $7 million on our base business and other projects.
In 2007, our PP&E expenditures were $6 million or 2% higher than in 2006. This was primarily due to an increase in PRP expenditures of $10 million as we replaced larger-diameter pipe in more densely populated areas and $5 million in expenditures for the Hampton Roads project. This was offset by decreased expenditures of $4 million on our storage projects and $5 million on our base business and other projects.
Our estimated expenditures for 2009 include discretionary spending for capital projects principally within the base business and natural gas storage categories. We continually evaluate whether to proceed with these projects, reviewing them in relation to factors including our authorized returns on rate base, other returns on invested capital for projects of a similar nature, capital structure and credit ratings, among others. We will make adjustments to these discretionary expenditures as necessary based upon these factors.
In October 2008, the New Jersey Governor presented a Comprehensive Economic Stimulus Plan for New Jersey that is intended to enhance the States business climate and support short-term employment growth and long-term economic prospects. Recognizing that the States natural gas utilities play a crucial role in both improving the States economic condition and encouraging energy efficiency, the Governors stimulus package included provisions for energy companies to invest in programs for utility customers that will encourage energy efficiency, generate jobs and strengthen the local economy. In accordance with the Governors plan, in January 2009 Elizabethtown Gas filed a two-year utility infrastructure enhancement program and gas cost recovery mechanism that, if approved, would require an additional $20 million in capital expenditures in 2009.
11
Our capitalization and financing strategy is intended to ensure that we are properly capitalized with the appropriate mix of equity and debt securities. This strategy includes active management of the percentage of total debt relative to total capitalization, appropriate mix of debt with fixed to floating interest rates (our variable debt target is 20% to 45% of total debt), as well as the term and interest rate profile of our debt securities.
Cash Flow from Financing Activities
As of December 31, 2008, our variable-rate debt was $1,026 million or 40% of our total debt, compared to $840 million or 37% as of December 31, 2007. This increase was principally due to borrowings under our Credit Facilities and commercial paper borrowings. As of December 31, 2008, our Credit Facilities and commercial paper borrowings were $773 million or 37% higher than the same time last year, primarily a result of higher working capital requirements, driven by higher natural gas prices during the inventory injection season and increased PP&E expenditures of $113 million. For more information on our debt, see Exhibit 99.4, Note 6.
We strive to maintain or improve our credit ratings on our debt to manage our existing financing cost and enhance our ability to raise additional capital on favorable terms. Factors we consider important in assessing our credit ratings include our statement of financial position leverage, capital spending, earnings, cash flow generation, available liquidity and overall business risks. We do not have any trigger events in our debt instruments that are tied to changes in our specified credit ratings or our stock price and have not entered into any agreements that would require us to issue equity based on credit ratings or other trigger events. The following table summarizes our credit ratings as of December 31, 2008.
Credit Ratings
A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. The highest investment grade credit rating for S&P is AAA, Moodys is Aaa and Fitch is AAA. Our credit ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot ensure that a rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. If the rating agencies downgrade our ratings, particularly below investment grade, it may significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market and our borrowing costs would increase. In addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources would decrease.
 
Our debt instruments and other financial obligations include provisions that, if not complied with, could require early payment, additional collateral support or similar actions. Our most important default events include maintaining covenants with respect to a maximum leverage ratio, insolvency events, nonpayment of scheduled principal or interest payments, and acceleration of other financial obligations and change of control provisions.
Default Events
Our Credit Facilities financial covenants require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no greater than 70%; however, our goal is to maintain this ratio at levels between 50% and 60%. Our ratio of total debt to total capitalization calculation contained in our debt covenant includes noncontrolling interest, standby letters of credit, surety bonds and the exclusion of other comprehensive income pension adjustments. Our debt-to-equity calculation, as defined by our Credit Facilities, was 59% at December 31, 2008 and 58% at December 31, 2007. These amounts are within our required and targeted ranges. The components of our capital structure, as calculated from our consolidated statements of financial position, as of the dates indicated, are provided in the following table.
We are currently in compliance with all existing debt provisions and covenants. We believe that accomplishing these capitalization objectives and maintaining sufficient cash flow are necessary to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings and to allow us access to capital at reasonable costs.
12
Our short-term debt is composed of borrowings and payments of commercial paper, lines of credit and payments of the current portion of our capital leases. Our short-term debt financing generally increases between June and December because our payments for natural gas and pipeline capacity are generally made to suppliers prior to the collection of accounts receivable from our customers. We typically reduce short-term debt balances in the spring because a significant portion of our current assets are converted into cash at the end of the winter heating season.
Short-term Debt
 
In June 2008 we extended Sequents $25 million unsecured line of credit bearing interest at the federal funds rate plus 0.75% through June 2009. In September 2008 Sequent extended its $20 million second line of credit that bears interest at the LIBOR rate plus 1.0% to September 2009. In December 2008 the terms of this line of credit were decreased to $5 million bearing interest at the LIBOR rate plus 3.0%. Sequents lines of credit are used solely for the posting of margin deposits for NYMEX transactions and are unconditionally guaranteed by us
.
Under the terms of our Credit Facilities, which expires in August 2011, the aggregate principal amount available is $1 billion and we can request an option to increase the aggregate principal amount available for borrowing to $1.25 billion on not more than three occasions during each calendar year.
In September 2008, we completed a $140 million supplemental credit facility that expires in September 2009, which will provide additional liquidity for working capital and capital expenditure needs. This $140 million credit facility allows for the option to request an increase in the borrowing capacity to $150 million and supplements our existing $1 billion Credit Facility which expires in August 2011.
More information on our short-term debt as of December 31, 2008, which we consider one of our primary sources of liquidity, is presented in the following table:
We normally access the commercial paper markets to finance our working capital needs. However, during the third and fourth quarters of 2008, adverse developments in the global financial and credit markets, including the failure or merger between several large financial institutions, have made it more difficult for us to access the commercial paper market at reasonable rates. As a result, at times we relied upon our Credit Facilities for our liquidity and capital resource needs. At December 31, 2007, we had no outstanding credit line borrowings under the Credit Facilities and $566 million of commercial paper issuances.
Our long-term debt matures more than one year from the statement of financial position date and consists of medium-term notes, senior notes, gas facility revenue bonds, and capital leases. The following represents our long-term debt activity over the last three years.
Long-term Debt
 
Gas Facility Revenue Bonds
Senior notes
Notes payable to Trusts
Medium-term notes
13
A cash distribution of $30 million in 2008, $23 million in 2007 and $22 million in 2006 for SouthStars dividend distributions to Piedmont were recorded in our consolidated statement of cash flows as a financing activity.
Noncontrolling Interest
 
Our common stock dividend payments were $124 million in 2008, a $1 million increase from 2007. While our dividends per common share increased 2% in 2008 from $1.64 to $1.68 per common share; this was offset by fewer outstanding shares as a result of our share repurchase plans. The $12 million or 11% increase in common stock dividend payments in 2007 compared to 2006, resulted from our 11% increase in our common stock dividends per share from $1.48 to $1.64 per common share.
Dividends on Common Stock
 
In 2008, our dividend payout ratio was 59%, which is consistent with our payout ratio of 60% in 2007. We expect that our dividend payout ratio will remain consistent with the dividend payout ratios of our peer companies, which is currently an average of 58% with an average dividend yield of 4.3%. Our diluted earnings per share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. and declared common stock dividends per share along with our dividend payout ratio for the last three years are presented in the following chart.
 
For information about restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, see Exhibit 99.4, Note 5 Equity.
In March 2001 our Board of Directors approved the purchase of up to 600,000 shares of our common stock to be used for issuances under the Officer Incentive Plan. During 2008, we purchased 15,133 shares. As of December 31, 2008, we had purchased a total 312,367 shares, leaving 287,633 shares available for purchase.
Treasury Shares
In February 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a plan to purchase up to 8 million shares of our outstanding common stock over a five-year period. These purchases are intended principally to offset share issuances under our employee and non-employee director incentive compensation plans and our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plans. Stock purchases under this program may be made in the open market or in private transactions at times and in amounts that we deem appropriate. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that we will purchase, and we can terminate or limit the program at any time.
For the year ended December 31, 2008, we did not purchase shares of our common stock. During the same period in 2007, we purchased approximately 2 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average cost of $39.56 per share and an aggregate cost of $80 million. We hold the purchased shares as treasury shares. For more information on our share repurchases see Item 5 Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
In August 2007, we filed a new shelf registration with the SEC. The debt securities and related guarantees will be issued by AGL Capital under an indenture dated as of February 20, 2001, as supplemented and modified, as necessary, among AGL Capital, AGL Resources and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. The indenture provides for the issuance from time to time of debt securities in an unlimited dollar amount and an unlimited number of series subject to our Credit Facilities financial covenants related to total debt to total capitalization. The debt securities will be guaranteed by AGL Resources.
Shelf Registration
We have incurred various contractual obligations and financial commitments in the normal course of our operating and financing activities that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on liquidity or the availability of requirements for capital resources. Contractual obligations include future cash payments required under existing contractual arrangements, such as debt and lease agreements.
Contractual Obligations and Commitments
 
 
14
 
These obligations may result from both general financing activities and from commercial arrangements that are directly supported by related revenue-producing activities. Contingent financial commitments represent obligations that become payable only if certain predefined events occur, such as financial guarantees, and include the nature of the guarantee and the maximum potential amount of future payments that could be required of us as the guarantor. As we do for other subsidiaries, AGL Resources provides guarantees to certain gas suppliers for SouthStar in support of payment obligations. The following table illustrates our expected future contractual obligation payments such as debt and lease agreements, and commitments and contingencies as of December 31, 2008.
 
 
 
 
A subsidiary of NUI entered into two 20-year agreements for the firm transportation and storage of natural gas during 2003 with annual aggregate demand charges of approximately $5 million. As a result of our acquisition of NUI and in accordance with SFAS 141, we valued the contracts at fair value and established a long-term liability of $38 million for the excess liability that will be amortized to our consolidated statements of income over the remaining lives of the contracts of $2 million annually through November 2023 and $1 million annually from November 2023 to November 2028. The gas supply amount includes SouthStar gas commodity purchase commitments of 15 Bcf at floating gas prices calculated using forward natural gas prices as of December 31, 2008, and is valued at $85 million.
Pipeline Charges, Storage Capacity and Gas Supply Contracts.
We have certain operating leases with provisions for step rent or escalation payments and certain lease concessions. We account for these leases by recognizing the future minimum lease payments on a straight-line basis over the respective minimum lease terms, in accordance with SFAS 13. However, this accounting treatment does not affect the future annual operating lease cash obligations as shown herein. We expect to fund these obligations with cash flow from operating and financing activities.
Operating leases.
We also have incurred various financial commitments in the normal course of business. Contingent financial commitments represent obligations that become payable only if certain predefined events occur, such as financial guarantees, and include the nature of the guarantee and the maximum potential amount of future payments that could be required of us as the guarantor. We would expect to fund these contingent financial commitments with operating and financing cash flows.
Standby letters of credit and performance / surety bonds.
Generally, our funding policy is to contribute annually an amount that will at least equal the minimum amount required to comply with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Additionally, we calculate any required pension contributions using the projected unit credit cost method. However, additional voluntary contributions are made from time to time as considered necessary. Contributions are intended to provide not only for benefits attributed to service to date but also for those expected to be earned in the future. The contributions represent the portion of the postretirement costs we are responsible for under the terms of our plan and minimum funding required by state regulatory commissions.
Pension and Postretirement Obligations.
15
The state regulatory commissions have phase-ins that defer a portion of the postretirement benefit expense for future recovery. We recorded a regulatory asset for these future recoveries of $11 million as of December 31, 2008 and $12 million as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we recorded a regulatory liability of $5 million as of December 31, 2008 and $4 million as of December 31, 2007 for our expected expenses under the AGL Postretirement Plan. See Exhibit 99.4, Note 3 Employee Benefit Plans, for additional information about our pension and postretirement plans.
We were not required to make a minimum funding contribution to our pension plans during 2008. Based on the current funding status of the plans, we would be required to make a minimum contribution to the plans of approximately $7 million in 2009. We are planning to make additional contributions in 2009 up to $61 million, for a total of up to $68 million, in order to preserve the current level of benefits under the plans and in accordance with the funding requirements of the Pension Protection Act.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Our actual results may differ from our estimates. Each of the following critical accounting policies involves complex situations requiring a high degree of judgment either in the application and interpretation of existing literature or in the development of estimates that impact our financial statements.
Atlanta Gas Light was ordered by the Georgia Commission (through a joint stipulation and a subsequent settlement agreement between Atlanta Gas Light and the Georgia Commission staff) to undertake a PRP that would replace all bare steel and cast iron pipe in its system. Approximately 68 miles of cast iron and 420 miles of bare steel pipe still require replacement. If Atlanta Gas Light does not perform in accordance with the initial and amended PRP stipulation, it can be assessed certain nonperformance penalties. However to date, Atlanta Gas Light is in full compliance.
Pipeline Replacement Program Liabilities
The stipulation also provides for recovery of all prudent costs incurred under the program, which Atlanta Gas Light has recorded as a regulatory asset. The regulatory asset has two components:
The determination of future expected costs associated with our PRP involves judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the future expected costs are projected capital expenditure spending, including labor and material costs, and the remaining infrastructure footage to be replaced for the remaining years of the program. We recorded a long-term liability of $140 million as of December 31, 2008 and $190 million as of December 31, 2007, which represented engineering estimates for remaining capital expenditure costs in the PRP. As of December 31, 2008, we had recorded a current liability of $49 million, representing expected PRP expenditures for the next 12 months. We report these estimates on an undiscounted basis. If Atlanta Gas Lights PRP expenditures, subject to future recovery, were $10 million higher or lower its incremental expected annual revenues would have changed by approximately $1 million.
We historically reported estimates of future remediation costs based on probabilistic models of potential costs. We report these estimates on an undiscounted basis. As we continue to conduct the actual remediation and enter into cleanup contracts, we are increasingly able to provide conventional engineering estimates of the likely costs of many elements of the remediation program. These estimates contain various engineering uncertainties, and we continuously attempt to refine and update these engineering estimates.
Environmental Remediation Liabilities
Our latest available estimate as of December 31, 2008 for those elements of the remediation program with in-place contracts or engineering cost estimates is $12 million for Atlanta Gas Lights Georgia and Florida sites. This is a decrease of $3 million from the December 31, 2007 estimate of projected engineering and in-place contracts. For elements of the remediation program where Atlanta Gas Light still cannot perform engineering cost estimates, considerable variability remains in available estimates. The estimated remaining cost of future actions at these sites is $26 million, which includes less than $1 million in estimates of certain other costs it pays related to administering the remediation program and remediation of sites currently in the investigation phase. Beyond 2010, these costs cannot be estimated. As of December 31, 2008, we have recorded a liability of $38 million.
16
Atlanta Gas Lights environmental remediation liability is included in its corresponding regulatory asset. Atlanta Gas Lights estimate does not include other potential expenses, such as unasserted property damage, personal injury or natural resource damage claims, unbudgeted legal expenses, or other costs for which it may be held liable but with respect to which the amount cannot be reasonably forecast. Atlanta Gas Lights recovery of environmental remediation costs is subject to review by the Georgia Commission, which may seek to disallow the recovery of some expenses.
In New Jersey, Elizabethtown Gas is currently conducting remediation activities with oversight from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. Although the actual total cost of future environmental investigation and remediation efforts cannot be estimated with precision, the range of reasonably probable costs is $58 million to $116 million. As of December 31, 2008, we have recorded a liability of $58 million.
The New Jersey Commission has authorized Elizabethtown Gas to recover prudently incurred remediation costs for the New Jersey properties through its remediation adjustment clause. As a result, Elizabethtown Gas has recorded a regulatory asset of approximately $66 million, inclusive of interest, as of December 31, 2008, reflecting the future recovery of both incurred costs and future remediation liabilities in the state of New Jersey. Elizabethtown Gas has also been successful in recovering a portion of remediation costs incurred in New Jersey from its insurance carriers and continues to pursue additional recovery. As of December 31, 2008, the variation between the amounts of the environmental remediation cost liability recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position and the associated regulatory asset is due to expenditures for environmental investigation and remediation exceeding recoveries from ratepayers and insurance carriers.
We also own remediation sites located outside of New Jersey. One site, in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, is subject to an order by the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources. Preliminary estimates for investigation and remediation costs range from $10 million to $20 million. As of December 31, 2008, we had recorded a liability of $10 million related to this site. There is one other site in North Carolina where investigation and remediation is probable, although no regulatory order exists and we do not believe costs associated with this site can be reasonably estimated. In addition, there are as many as six other sites with which we had some association, although no basis for liability has been asserted. We do not believe that costs to investigate and remediate these sites, if any, can be reasonably estimated at this time.
With respect to these costs, we currently pursue or intend to pursue recovery from ratepayers, former owners and operators and insurance carriers. While we have been successful in recovering a portion of these remediation costs from our insurance carriers, we are not able to express a belief as to the success of additional recovery efforts. We are working with the regulatory agencies to manage our remediation costs so as to mitigate the impact of such costs on both ratepayers and shareholders.
SFAS 133, as updated by SFAS 149, established accounting and reporting standards which require that every derivative financial instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the statement of financial position as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. However, if the derivative transaction qualifies for and is designated as a normal purchase and sale, it is exempted from the fair value accounting treatment of SFAS 133, as updated by SFAS 149, and is accounted for using traditional accrual accounting.
Derivatives and Hedging Activities
SFAS 133 requires that changes in the derivatives fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. If the derivatives meet those criteria, SFAS 133 allows a derivatives gains and losses to offset related results on the hedged item in the income statement in the case of a fair value hedge, or to record the gains and losses in OCI until the hedged transaction occurs in the case of a cash flow hedge. Additionally, SFAS 133 requires that a company formally designate a derivative as a hedge as well as document and assess the effectiveness of derivatives associated with transactions that receive hedge accounting treatment. SFAS 133 applies to treasury locks and interest rate swaps executed by AGL Capital and gas commodity contracts executed by Sequent and SouthStar. SFAS 133 also applies to gas commodity contracts executed by Elizabethtown Gas under a New Jersey Commission authorized hedging program that requires gains and losses on these derivatives are reflected in purchased gas costs and ultimately billed to customers. Our derivative and hedging activities are described in further detail in Exhibit 99.4, Note 2 Derivative Financial Instruments and Risk Management and Exhibit 99.1, Business.
17
We are exposed to risks associated with changes in the market price of natural gas. Through Sequent and SouthStar, we use derivative instruments to reduce our exposure impact to our results of operations due to the risk of changes in the price of natural gas.
Commodity-related Derivative Instruments
Sequent recognizes the change in value of a derivative instrument as an unrealized gain or loss in revenues in the period when the market value of the instrument changes. Sequent recognizes cash inflows and outflows associated with the settlement of its risk management activities in operating cash flows, and reports these settlements as receivables and payables in the statement of financial position separately from the risk management activities reported as energy marketing receivables and trade payables.
We attempt to mitigate substantially all our commodity price risk associated with Sequents natural gas storage portfolio and lock in the economic margin at the time we enter into purchase transactions for our stored natural gas. We purchase natural gas for storage when the current market price we pay plus storage costs is less than the market price we could receive in the future. We lock in the economic margin by selling NYMEX futures contracts or other OTC derivatives in the forward months corresponding with our withdrawal periods. We use contracts to sell natural gas at that future price to lock in the operating revenues we will ultimately realize when the stored natural gas is actually sold. These contracts meet the definition of a derivative under SFAS 133.
The purchase, storage and sale of natural gas are accounted for differently from the derivatives we use to mitigate the commodity price risk associated with our storage portfolio. That difference in accounting can result in volatility in our reported operating margin, even though the economic margin is essentially unchanged from the date we entered into the transactions. We do not currently use hedge accounting under SFAS 133 to account for this activity.
Natural gas that we purchase and inject into storage is accounted for at the lower of weighted average cost or market value. Under current accounting guidance, we recognize a loss in any period when the market price for natural gas is lower than the carrying amount of our purchased natural gas inventory. Costs to store the natural gas are recognized in the period the costs are incurred. We recognize revenues and cost of natural gas sold in our statement of consolidated income in the period we sell gas and it is delivered out of the storage facility.
The derivatives we use to mitigate commodity price risk and substantially lock in the operating margin upon the sale of stored natural gas are accounted for at fair value and marked to market each period, with changes in fair value recognized as unrealized gains or losses in the period of change. This difference in accounting - the lower of weighted average cost or market basis for our storage inventory versus the fair value accounting for the derivatives used to mitigate commodity price risk - can and does result in volatility in our reported earnings.
Over time, gains or losses on the sale of storage inventory will be substantially offset by losses or gains on the derivatives, resulting in realization of the economic profit margin we expected when we entered into the transactions. This accounting difference causes Sequents earnings on its storage positions to be affected by natural gas price changes, even though the economic profits remain essentially unchanged.
SouthStar also uses derivative instruments to manage exposures arising from changing commodity prices. SouthStars objective for holding these derivatives is to minimize volatility in wholesale commodity natural gas prices. A portion of SouthStars derivative transactions are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. Derivative gains or losses arising from cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI and are reclassified into earnings in the same period the underlying hedged item is reflected in the income statement. As of December 31, 2008, the ending balance in OCI for derivative transactions designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133 was a loss of $6 million, net of noncontrolling interest and taxes. Any hedge ineffectiveness, defined as when the gains or losses on the hedging instrument do not offset the losses or gains on the hedged item, is recorded into earnings in the period in which it occurs. SouthStar currently has minimal hedge ineffectiveness. SouthStars remaining derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under SFAS 133. Therefore, changes in their fair value are recorded in earnings in the period of change.
SouthStar also enters into weather derivative instruments in order to stabilize operating margins in the event of warmer-than-normal and colder-than-normal weather in the winter months. These contracts are accounted for using the intrinsic value method under the guidance of EITF 99-02. Changes in the intrinsic value of these derivatives are recorded in earnings in the period of change. The weather derivative contracts contain strike amount provisions based on cumulative heating degree days for the covered periods. In 2008 and 2007, SouthStar entered into weather derivatives (swaps and options) for the respective winter heating seasons, primarily from November through March. As of December 31, 2008, SouthStar recorded a current asset of $4 million for this hedging activity.
18
Our accounting policies for contingencies cover a variety of business activities, including contingencies for potentially uncollectible receivables, rate matters, and legal and environmental exposures. We accrue for these contingencies when our assessments indicate that it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset will not be recovered, and an amount can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS 5. We base our estimates for these liabilities on currently available facts and our estimates of the ultimate outcome or resolution of the liability in the future. Actual results may differ from estimates, and estimates can be, and often are, revised either negatively or positively, depending on actual outcomes or changes in the facts or expectations surrounding each potential exposure.
Contingencies
 
Our pension and other postretirement plan costs and liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by numerous assumptions and estimates including the market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, assumed discount rates and current demographic and actuarial mortality data. We annually review the estimates and assumptions underlying our pension and other postretirement plan costs and liabilities. The assumed discount rate and the expected return on plan assets are the assumptions that generally have the most significant impact on our pension costs and liabilities. The assumed discount rate, the assumed health care cost trend rate and the assumed rates of retirement generally have the most significant impact on our postretirement plan costs and liabilities.
Pension and
O
ther
P
ostretirement
P
lans
Our total pension and other benefit costs remained relatively unchanged during the current-year period when compared with the prior-year period as the assumptions we made during our annual pension plan valuation were consistent with the prior year. The discount rate used to compute the present value of a plans liabilities generally is based on rates of high-grade corporate bonds with maturities similar to the average period over which the benefits will be paid. Our expected return on our pension plan assets remained constant at 9%.
The discount rate is used principally to calculate the actuarial present value of our pension and postretirement obligations and net pension and postretirement cost. When establishing our discount rate which we have determined to be 6.2% at December 31, 2008, we consider high quality corporate bond rates based on Moodys Corporate AA long-term bond rate of 5.62% and the Citigroup Pension Liability rate of 5.87% at December 31, 2008. We further use these market indices as a comparison to a single equivalent discount rate derived with the assistance of our actuarial advisors. This analysis as of December 31, 2008 produced a single equivalent discount rate of 6.2%.
The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact on the amount of pension expense recorded in future periods.
The expected long-term rate of return on assets is used to calculate the expected return on plan assets component of our annual pension and postretirement plan cost. We estimate the expected return on plan assets by evaluating expected bond returns, equity risk premiums, asset allocations, the effects of active plan management, the impact of periodic plan asset rebalancing and historical performance. We also consider guidance from our investment advisors in making a final determination of our expected rate of return on assets. To the extent the actual rate of return on assets realized over the course of a year is greater than or less than the assumed rate, that years annual pension or postretirement plan cost is not affected. Rather, this gain or loss reduces or increases future pension or postretirement plan costs.
Our postretirement plans have been capped at 2.5% for increases in health care costs. Consequently, a one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the assumed health care trend rate does not materially affect the periodic benefit cost for our postretirement plans. A one percentage-point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase our accumulated projected benefit obligation by $4 million. A one percentage-point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate would decrease our accumulated projected benefit obligation by $3 million. Our assumed rate of retirement is estimated based upon an annual review of participant census information as of the measurement date.
At December 31, 2008, our pension and postretirement liability increased by approximately $178 million, primarily resulting from an after-tax loss to OCI of $111 million ($184 million before tax) offset by $5 million in benefit payments that we funded and $1 million in net pension and postretirement benefit credits we recorded in 2008. These changes reflect our funding contributions to the plan, benefit payments out of the plans, and updated valuations for the projected benefit obligation (PBO) and plan assets.
19
Equity market performance and corporate bond rates have a significant effect on our reported unfunded accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), as the primary factors that drive the value of our unfunded ABO are the assumed discount rate and the actual return on plan assets. Additionally, equity market performance has a significant effect on our market-related value of plan assets (MRVPA), which is a calculated value and differs from the actual market value of plan assets. The MRVPA recognizes differences between the actual market value and expected market value of our plan assets and is determined by our actuaries using a five-year moving weighted average methodology. Gains and losses on plan assets are spread through the MRVPA based on the five-year moving weighted average methodology, which affects the expected return on plan assets component of pension expense.
See Exhibit 99.4, Note 3, Employee Benefit Plans, for additional information on our pension and postretirement plans, which includes our investment policies and strategies, target allocation ranges and weighted average asset allocations for 2008 and 2007.
The actual return on our pension plan assets compared to the expected return on plan assets of 8.75% will have an impact on our ABO as of December 31, 2009 and our pension expense for 2009. We are unable to determine how this actual return on plan assets will affect future ABO and pension expense, as actuarial assumptions and differences between actual and expected returns on plan assets are determined at the time we complete our actuarial evaluation as of December 31, 2009. Our actual returns may also be positively or negatively impacted as a result of future performance in the equity and bond markets. The following tables illustrate the effect of changing the critical actuarial assumptions, as discussed previously, while holding all other assumptions constant.
Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual plan results are deferred and amortized into cost when the accumulated differences exceed 10% of the greater of the PBO or the MRVPA. If necessary, the excess is amortized over the average remaining service period of active employees.
In addition to the assumptions listed above, the measurement of the plans obligations and costs depend on other factors such as employee demographics, the level of contributions made to the plans, earnings on the plans assets and mortality rates. Consequently, based on these factors as well as a discount rate of 6.2%, an expected return on plan assets of 8.75% and our expectations with respect to plan contributions, we expect net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs to be in the range of $10 million to $12 million in 2009, an $11 million to $13 million increase relative to 2008.
We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS 109 and FIN 48 which require that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax basis of recorded assets and liabilities. SFAS 109 and FIN 48 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. At the date of adoption, as of December 31, 2007 and as of December 31, 2008, we did not have a liability for unrecognized tax benefits.
Income Taxe
s
Our net long-term deferred tax liability totaled $646 million at December 31, 2008 (see Exhibit 99.4, Note 8 Income Taxes). This liability is estimated based on the expected future tax consequences of items recognized in the financial statements. After application of the federal statutory tax rate to book income, judgment is required with respect to the timing and deductibility of expense in our income tax returns. For state income tax and other taxes, judgment is also required with respect to the apportionment among the various jurisdictions. A valuation allowance is recorded if we expect that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will not be realized. We had a $3 million valuation allowance on $104 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2008, reflecting the expectation that most of these assets will be realized. In addition, we operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and we are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. We maintain a liability for the estimate of potential income tax exposure and in our opinion adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all years.
 
20
 
Accounting Developments
Previously discussed
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 160, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We adopted SFAS 160 on January 1, 2009, and applied the presentation and disclosure requirements retrospectively for all periods presented. SFAS 160 does not change the requirements of FIN 46R and provides that the noncontrolling interest should be reported as a separate component of equity on our consolidated statement of financial position.
SFAS 160
Additionally, prior to adoption of SFAS 160, we recorded our earnings allocated to Piedmont as a component of earnings before income taxes in our condensed consolidated statements of income. SFAS 160 requires that any net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest be presented separately in our condensed consolidated statements of income. As a result, net income from noncontrolling interest is reported after net income in order to report net income attributable to the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The adoption of SFAS 160 has no effect on our calculation of basic or diluted earnings per share amounts, which will continue to be based upon amounts attributable to AGL Resources.
Recently issued
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 161, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. SFAS 161 amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS 133 to provide an enhanced understanding of how and why derivative instruments are used, how they are accounted for and their effect on an entitys financial condition, performance and cash flows. We will adopt SFAS 161 on January 1, 2009 which will require additional disclosures, but will not have a financial impact to our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
SFAS 161
The FASB issued this FSP in June 2008 and it is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. This FSP classifies unvested share-based payment grants containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends as participating securities that will be included in the computation of earnings per share. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 145,000 restricted shares with nonforfeitable dividend rights. We will adopt FSP EITF 03-6-1 effective on January 1, 2009.
FSP EITF 03-6-1
The FASB issued this FSP in September 2008 and it is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. This FSP requires more detailed disclosures about credit derivatives, including the potential adverse effects of changes in credit risk on the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the sellers of the instruments. This FSP will have no financial impact to our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We will adopt FSP FAS 133-1 effective on January 1, 2009.
FSP FAS 133-1
The FASB issued this FSP in October 2008 and it is effective upon issuance including prior periods for which financial statements have not been issued. This FSP clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in an inactive market, including; how internal assumptions should be considered when measuring fair value, how observable market information in a market that is not active should be considered and how the use of market quotes should be used when assessing observable and unobservable data. We adopted this FSP as of September 30, 2008, which had no financial impact to our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
FSP FAS 157-3
The FASB issued this FSP in December 2008 and it is effective for the first reporting period ending after December 15, 2008. This FSP requires additional disclosures related to variable interest entities in accordance with SFAS 140 and FIN 46R. These disclosures include significant judgments and assumptions, restrictions on assets, risks and the affects on financial position, financial performance and cash flows. We adopted this FSP as of December 31, 2008, which had no financial impact to our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8
 
21
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To theBoard of Directors and Shareholders of AGL Resources Inc.:
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of AGL Resources Inc. (the Company) and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule ( not presented herein) listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) of the Companys 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-Kpresents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
 
As discussed in Notes 4 and 3, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements, AGL Resources Inc. and subsidiaries changed its method of accounting for stock based compensation plans as of January 1, 2006 and its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as of December 31, 2006.  As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for noncontrolling interests effective January 1, 2009.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 5, 2009, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of the change in accounting for noncontrolling interests discussed in Note 1, as to which the date is July 13, 2009.
2
 
Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by COSO, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008, in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
February 5, 2009
/s/ John W. Somerhalder II
John W. Somerhalder II
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
/s/ Andrew W. Evans
Andrew W. Evans
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
3
 
 
GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS
 
4
 
 
5
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
6
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
7
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
8
 
 
9
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
10
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
11
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 - Accounting Policies and Methods of Application
General
AGL Resources Inc. is an energy services holding company that conducts substantially all its operations through its subsidiaries. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to we, us, our, the company, or AGL Resources mean consolidated AGL Resources Inc. and its subsidiaries. We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements under the rules of the SEC. For a glossary of key terms and referenced accounting standards, see pages 4 and 5.
Basis of Presentation
Our consolidated financial statements as of and for the period ended December 31, 2008, include our accounts, the accounts of our majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries and the accounts of variable interest entities for which we are the primary beneficiary. This means that our accounts are combined with the subsidiaries accounts. We have eliminated any intercompany profits and transactions in consolidation; however, we have not eliminated intercompany profits when such amounts are probable of recovery under the affiliates rate regulation process. Certain amounts from prior periods have been reclassified and revised to conform to the current period presentation.
We currently own a noncontrolling 70% financial interest in SouthStar and Piedmont owns the remaining 30%. Our 70% interest is noncontrolling because all significant management decisions require approval by both owners. We record the earnings allocated to Piedmont as net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of income and we record Piedmonts portion of SouthStars capital as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of financial position.
We are the primary beneficiary of SouthStars activities and have determined that SouthStar is a variable interest entity as defined by FIN 46 revised in December 2003, FIN 46R. We determined that SouthStar was a variable interest entity because our equal voting rights with Piedmont are not proportional to our economic obligation to absorb 75% of any losses or residual returns from SouthStar, except those losses and returns related to customers in Ohio and Florida. Earnings related to SouthStars customers in Ohio and Florida are allocated 70% to us and 30% to Piedmont. The nature of restrictions on SouthStars assets are immaterial. The primary risks associated with SouthStar include weather, government regulation, competition, market risk, natural gas prices, economic conditions, inflation and bad debt. See Note 9 for income statement, statement of financial position and capital expenditure information related to the retail energy operations segment. In addition, SouthStar obtains substantially all its transportation capacity for delivery of natural gas through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Atlanta Gas Light.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Our cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit, money market accounts and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less.
Receivables and Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts 
Our receivables consist of natural gas sales and transportation services billed to residential, commercial, industrial and other customers. We bill customers monthly, and accounts receivable are due within 30 days. For the majority of our receivables, we establish an allowance for doubtful accounts based on our collection experience and other factors. On certain other receivables where we are aware of a specific customers inability or reluctance to pay, we record an allowance for doubtful accounts against amounts due to reduce the net receivable balance to the amount we reasonably expect to collect. However, if circumstances change, our estimate of the recoverability of accounts receivable could be different. Circumstances that could affect our estimates include, but are not limited to, customer credit issues, the level of natural gas prices, customer deposits and general economic conditions. We write-off our customers accounts once we deem them to be uncollectible.
Inventories
For our distribution operations subsidiaries, we record natural gas stored underground at WACOG. For Sequent and SouthStar, we account for natural gas inventory at the lower of WACOG or market price.
Sequent and SouthStar evaluate the average cost of their natural gas inventories against market prices to determine whether any declines in market prices below the WACOG are other than temporary. For any declines considered to be other than temporary, adjustments are recorded to reduce the weighted average cost of the natural gas inventory to market price. Consequently, as a result of declining natural gas prices, Sequent recorded LOCOM adjustments against cost of gas to reduce the value of its inventories to market value of $40 million in 2008, $4 million in 2007 and $43 million in 2006. SouthStar recorded LOCOM adjustments of $24 million in 2008 and $6 million in 2006, but was not required to make LOCOM adjustments in 2007.
12
In Georgias competitive environment, Marketers including SouthStar, our marketing subsidiary, began selling natural gas in 1998 to firm end-use customers at market-based prices. Part of the unbundling process, which resulted from deregulation that provides for this competitive environment, is the assignment to Marketers of certain pipeline services that Atlanta Gas Light has under contract. Atlanta Gas Light assigns, on a monthly basis, the majority of the pipeline storage services that it has under contract to Marketers, along with a corresponding amount of inventory.
Property, Plant and Equipment
A summary of our PP&E by classification as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 is provided in the following table.
PP&E expenditures consist of property and equipment that is in use, being held for future use and under construction. We report PP&E at its original cost, which includes:
Distribution Operations
We charge property retired or otherwise disposed of to accumulated depreciation since such costs are recovered in rates.
PP&E expenditures include property that is in use and under construction, and we report it at cost. We record a gain or loss for retired or otherwise disposed-of property. Natural gas in storage at Jefferson Island that is retained as pad gas (volumes of non-working natural gas used to maintain the operational integrity of the cavern facility) is classified as non-depreciable property, plant and equipment and is valued at cost.
Retail Energy Operations, Wholesale Services, Energy Investments and Corporate
Depreciation Expense
We compute depreciation expense for distribution operations by applying composite, straight-line rates (approved by the state regulatory agencies) to the investment in depreciable property. The composite straight-line depreciation rate for depreciable property -- excluding transportation equipment for Atlanta Gas Light, Virginia Natural Gas and Chattanooga Gas -- was approximately 2.5% during 2008, 2007 and 2006. The composite, straight-line rate for Elizabethtown Gas, Florida City Gas and Elkton Gas was approximately 3.3 % for 2008, 3.2% during 2007 and 3.0% during 2006. We depreciate transportation equipment on a straight-line basis over a period of 5 to 10 years. We compute depreciation expense for other segments on a straight-line basis up to 35 years based on the useful life of the asset.
AFUDC
Four of our utilities are authorized by applicable state regulatory agencies or legislatures to record the cost of debt and equity funds as part of the cost of construction projects in our consolidated statements of financial position and as AFUDC of $8 million in 2008, $4 million in 2007 and $5 million in 2006 within in the consolidated statements of income. The capital expenditures of our two other utilities do not qualify for AFUDC treatment. More information on our authorized AFUDC rates is provided in the following table.
Goodwill
We have included $418 million of goodwill in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2008, which consists of:
 
13
SFAS 142 requires us to perform an annual goodwill impairment test at a reporting unit level which generally equates to our operating segments as discussed in Note 9 Segment Information. We performed this annual test as of our fiscal year-end or December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and did not recognize any impairment charges. We also assess goodwill for impairment if events or changes in circumstances may indicate an impairment of goodwill exists. When such events or circumstances are present, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value will be recovered through the expected future cash flows. In the event the sum of the expected future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset is less than the carrying value of the asset, we record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the assets carrying value over its fair value. We conduct this assessment principally through a review of our market capitalization relative to our net book value, financial results, changes in state and federal legislation and regulation, regulatory and legal proceedings and the periodic regulatory filings for our regulated utilities.
Taxes
The reporting of our assets and liabilities for financial accounting purposes differs from the reporting for income tax purposes. The principal differences between net income and taxable income relate to the timing of deductions, primarily due to the benefits of tax depreciation since we generally depreciate assets for tax purposes over a shorter period of time than for book purposes. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We report the tax effects of depreciation and other differences in those items as deferred income tax assets or liabilities in our consolidated statements of financial position in accordance with SFAS 109 and FIN 48. Investment tax credits of approximately $14 million previously deducted for income tax purposes for Atlanta Gas Light, Elizabethtown Gas, Florida City Gas and Elkton Gas have been deferred for financial accounting purposes and are being amortized as credits to income over the estimated lives of the related properties in accordance with regulatory requirements.
We do not collect income taxes from our customers on behalf of governmental authorities. We collect and remit various taxes on behalf of various governmental authorities. We record these amounts in our consolidated statements of financial position except taxes in the state of Florida which we are required to include in revenues and operating expenses. These Florida related taxes are not material for any periods presented.
Revenues
We record revenues when services are provided to customers. Those revenues are based on rates approved by the state regulatory commissions of our utilities.
Distribution operations
As required by the Georgia Commission, in July 1998, Atlanta Gas Light began billing Marketers in equal monthly installments for each residential, commercial and industrial customers distribution costs. As required by the Georgia Commission, effective February 1, 2001, Atlanta Gas Light implemented a seasonal rate design for the calculation of each residential customers annual straight-fixed-variable (SFV) capacity charge, which is billed to Marketers and reflects the historic volumetric usage pattern for the entire residential class. Generally, this change results in residential customers being billed by Marketers for a higher capacity charge in the winter months and a lower charge in the summer months. This requirement has an operating cash flow impact but does not change revenue recognition. As a result, Atlanta Gas Light continues to recognize its residential SFV capacity revenues for financial reporting purposes in equal monthly installments.
Any difference between the billings under the seasonal rate design and the SFV revenue recognized is deferred and reconciled to actual billings on an annual basis. Atlanta Gas Light had unrecovered seasonal rates of approximately $11 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 (included as current assets in the consolidated statements of financial position) related to the difference between the billings under the seasonal rate design and the SFV revenue recognized.
The Elizabethtown Gas, Virginia Natural Gas, Florida City Gas, Chattanooga Gas and Elkton Gas rate structures include volumetric rate designs that allow recovery of costs through gas usage. Revenues from sales and transportation services are recognized in the same period in which the related volumes are delivered to customers. Revenues from residential and certain commercial and industrial customers are recognized on the basis of scheduled meter readings. In addition, revenues are recorded for estimated deliveries of gas not yet billed to these customers, from the last meter reading date to the end of the accounting period. These are included in the consolidated statements of financial position as unbilled revenue. For other commercial and industrial customers and all wholesale customers, revenues are based on actual deliveries to the end of the period.
14
The tariffs for Elizabethtown Gas, Virginia Natural Gas and Chattanooga Gas contain WNAs that partially mitigate the impact of unusually cold or warm weather on customer billings and operating margin. The WNAs purpose is to reduce the effect of weather on customer bills by reducing bills when winter weather is colder than normal and increasing bills when weather is warmer than normal.
We record retail energy operations revenues when services are provided to customers. Revenues from sales and transportation services are recognized in the same period in which the related volumes are delivered to customers. Sales revenues from residential and certain commercial and industrial customers are recognized on the basis of scheduled meter readings. In addition, revenues are recorded for estimated deliveries of gas not yet billed to these customers, from the most recent meter reading date to the end of the accounting period. These are included in the consolidated statements of financial position as unbilled revenue. For other commercial and industrial customers and all wholesale customers, revenues are based on actual deliveries to the end of the period.
Retail energy operations
We record wholesale services revenues when services are provided to customers. Profits from sales between segments are eliminated in the corporate segment and are recognized as goods or services sold to end-use customers. Transactions that qualify as derivatives under SFAS 133 are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings in the period of change and characterized as unrealized gains or losses.
Wholesale services
We record operating revenues at Jefferson Island in the period in which actual volumes are transported and storage services are provided. The majority of our storage services are covered under medium to long-term contracts at fixed market rates.
Energy investments
We record operating revenues at AGL Networks from leases of dark fiber pursuant to indefeasible rights-of-use (IRU) agreements as services are provided. Dark fiber IRU agreements generally require the customer to make a down payment upon execution of the agreement; however in some cases AGL Networks receives up to the entire lease payment at the inception of the lease and recognizes ratably over the lease term. AGL Networks had deferred revenue in our consolidated statement of financial position of $33 million at December 31, 2008 and $38 million at December 31, 2007. In addition, AGL Networks recognizes sales revenues upon the execution of certain sales-type agreements for dark fiber when the agreements provide for the transfer of legal title to the dark fiber to the customer at the end of the agreements term. This sales-type accounting treatment is in accordance with EITF 00-11 and SFAS 66, which provides that such transactions meet the criteria for sales-type lease accounting if the agreement obligates the lessor to convey ownership of the underlying asset to the lessee by the end of the lease term.
Cost of gas
Excluding Atlanta Gas Light, we charge our utility customers for natural gas consumed using natural gas cost recovery mechanisms set by the state regulatory agencies. Under the these mechanisms, we defer (that is, include as a current asset or liability in the consolidated statements of financial position and exclude from the statements of consolidated income) the difference between the actual cost of gas and what is collected from or billed to customers in a given period. The deferred amount is either billed or refunded to our customers prospectively through adjustments to the commodity rate.
Our retail energy operations customers are charged for natural gas consumed. We also include within our cost of gas amounts for fuel and lost and unaccounted for gas, adjustments to reduce the value of our inventories to market value and for gains and losses associated with derivatives.
Comprehensive Income
Our comprehensive income includes net income and net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. plus OCI, which includes other gains and losses affecting equity that GAAP excludes from net income and net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. Such items consist primarily of unrealized gains and losses on certain derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and overfunded or unfunded pension obligation adjustments.
Earnings Per Common Share
We compute basic earnings per common share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. common shareholders by dividing our income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. common shareholders by the daily weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. common shareholders reflect the potential reduction in earnings per common share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. common shareholders that could occur when potentially dilutive common shares are added to common shares outstanding.
 
We derive our potentially dilutive common shares by calculating the number of shares issuable under restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options. The future issuance of shares underlying the restricted stock and restricted share units depends on the satisfaction of certain performance criteria. The future issuance of shares underlying the outstanding stock options depends on whether the exercise prices of the stock options are less than the average market price of the common shares for the respective periods. The following table shows the calculation of our diluted earnings per share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. for the periods presented if performance units currently earned under the plan ultimately vest and if stock options currently exercisable at prices below the average market prices are exercised.
15
The following table contains the weighted average shares attributable to outstanding stock options that were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. because their effect would have been anti-dilutive, as the exercise prices were greater than the average market price:
The increase in the number of shares that were excluded from the computation is the result of a significant decline in the market value of our common shares attributable to AGL Resources Inc. common shareholders at December 31, 2008 as compared to December 31, 2007 and 2006.
Regulatory Assets and Liabilities
We have recorded regulatory assets and liabilities in our consolidated statements of financial position in accordance with SFAS 71. Our regulatory assets and liabilities, and associated liabilities for our unrecovered PRP costs, unrecovered ERC and the associated assets and liabilities for our Elizabethtown Gas hedging program, are summarized in the following table.
 
 
Our regulatory assets are recoverable through either rate riders or base rates specifically authorized by a state regulatory commission. Base rates are designed to provide both a recovery of cost and a return on investment during the period rates are in effect. As such, all our regulatory assets are subject to review by the respective state regulatory commission during any future rate proceedings. In the event that the provisions of SFAS 71 were no longer applicable, we would recognize a write-off of regulatory assets that would result in a charge to net income, and be classified as an extraordinary item. Additionally, the regulatory liabilities would not be written-off but would continue to be recorded as liabilities but not as regulatory liabilities. Although the natural gas distribution industry is becoming increasingly competitive, our utility operations continue to recover their costs through cost-based rates established by the state regulatory commissions. As a result, we believe that the accounting prescribed under SFAS 71 remains appropriate. It is also our opinion that all regulatory assets are recoverable in future rate proceedings, and therefore we have not recorded any regulatory assets that are recoverable but are not yet included in base rates or contemplated in a rate rider.
16
All the regulatory assets included in the preceding table are included in base rates except for the unrecovered PRP costs, unrecovered ERC and deferred natural gas costs, which are recovered through specific rate riders on a dollar for dollar basis. The rate riders that authorize recovery of unrecovered PRP costs and the deferred natural gas costs include both a recovery of costs and a return on investment during the recovery period. We have two rate riders that authorize the recovery of unrecovered ERC. The ERC rate rider for Atlanta Gas Light only allows for recovery of the costs incurred and the recovery period occurs over the five years after the expense is incurred. ERC associated with the investigation and remediation of Elizabethtown Gas remediation sites located in the state of New Jersey are recovered under a remediation adjustment clause and include the carrying cost on unrecovered amounts not currently in rates. Elizabethtown Gas derivative financial instruments asset and liability reflect unrealized losses or gains that will be recovered from or passed to rate payers through the recovery of its natural gas costs on a dollar for dollar basis, once the losses or gains are realized. Unrecovered postretirement benefit costs are recoverable through base rates over the next 5 to 24 years based on the remaining recovery period as designated by the applicable state regulatory commissions. Unrecovered seasonal rates reflect the difference between the recognition of a portion of Atlanta Gas Lights residential base rates revenues on a straight-line basis as compared to the collection of the revenues over a seasonal pattern. The unrecovered amounts are fully recoverable through base rates within one year.
The regulatory liabilities are refunded to ratepayers through a rate rider or base rates. If the regulatory liability is included in base rates, the amount is reflected as a reduction to the rate base in setting rates.
Pipeline Replacement Program
The PRP, ordered by the Georgia Commission to be administered by Atlanta Gas Light, requires, among other things, that Atlanta Gas Light replace all bare steel and cast iron pipe in its system in the state of Georgia within a 10-year period beginning October 1, 1998. Atlanta Gas Light identified, and provided notice to the Georgia Commission of 2,312 miles of pipe to be replaced. Atlanta Gas Light subsequently identified an additional 320 miles of pipe subject to replacement under this program. If Atlanta Gas Light does not perform in accordance with this order, it will be assessed certain nonperformance penalties.
Atlanta Gas Light
The order also provides for recovery of all prudent costs incurred in the performance of the program, which Atlanta Gas Light has recorded as a regulatory asset. Atlanta Gas Light will recover from end-use customers, through billings to Marketers, the costs related to the program net of any cost savings from the program. All such amounts will be recovered through a combination of straight-fixed-variable rates and a pipeline replacement revenue rider. The regulatory asset has two components:
 
On June 10, 2005, Atlanta Gas Light and the Georgia Commission entered into a Settlement Agreement that, among other things, extends Atlanta Gas Lights PRP by five years to require that all replacements be completed by December 2013. The timing of replacements was subsequently specified in an amendment to the PRP stipulation. This amendment, which was approved by the Georgia Commission on December 20, 2005, requires Atlanta Gas Light to replace all cast iron pipe and 70% of all bare steel pipe by December 2010. The remaining 30% of bare steel pipe is required to be replaced by December 2013. These replacements are on schedule.
Under the Settlement Agreement, base rates charged to customers will remain unchanged through April 30, 2010, but Atlanta Gas Light will recognize reduced base rate revenues of $5 million on an annual basis through April 30, 2010. The five-year total reduction in recognized base rate revenues of $25 million will be applied to the allowed amount of costs incurred to replace pipe, which will reduce the amounts recovered from customers under the PRP rider. The Settlement Agreement also set the per customer fixed PRP rate that Atlanta Gas Light will charge at $1.29 per customer per month from May 2005 through September 2008 and at $1.95 from October 2008 through December 2013 and includes a provision that allows for a true-up of any over- or under-recovery of PRP revenues that may result from a difference between PRP charges collected through fixed rates and actual PRP revenues recognized through the remainder of the program.
The Settlement Agreement also allows Atlanta Gas Light to recover through the PRP $4 million of the $32 million capital costs associated with its March 2005 purchase of 250 miles of pipeline in central Georgia from Southern Natural Gas Company, a subsidiary of El Paso Corporation. The remaining capital costs are included in Atlanta Gas Lights rate base and collected through base rates.
17
Atlanta Gas Light has recorded a long-term regulatory asset of $196 million, which represents the expected future collection of both expenditures already incurred and expected future capital expenditures to be incurred through the remainder of the program. Atlanta Gas Light has also recorded a current asset of $41 million, which represents the expected amount to be collected from customers over the next 12 months. The amounts recovered from the pipeline replacement revenue rider during the last three years were:
As of December 31, 2008, Atlanta Gas Light had recorded a current liability of $49 million representing expected program expenditures for the next 12 months and a long-term liability of $140 million, representing expected program expenditures starting in 2009 through the end of the program in 2013.
Atlanta Gas Light capitalizes and depreciates the capital expenditure costs incurred from the PRP over the life of the assets. Operation and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Recoveries, which are recorded as revenue, are based on a formula that allows Atlanta Gas Light to recover operation and maintenance costs in excess of those included in its current base rates, depreciation expense and an allowed rate of return on capital expenditures. In the near term, the primary financial impact to Atlanta Gas Light from the PRP is reduced cash flow from operating and investing activities, as the timing related to cost recovery does not match the timing of when costs are incurred. However, Atlanta Gas Light is allowed the recovery of carrying costs on the under-recovered balance resulting from the timing difference.
In August 2006, the New Jersey Commission issued an order adopting a pipeline replacement cost recovery rider program for the replacement of certain 8 cast iron main pipes and any unanticipated 10-12 cast iron main pipes integral to the replacement of the 8 main pipes. The order allows Elizabethtown Gas to recognize revenues under a deferred recovery mechanism for costs to replace the pipe that exceeds a baseline amount of $3 million. Elizabethtown Gas recognition of these revenues could be disallowed by the New Jersey Commission if its return on equity exceeds the authorized rate of 10%. The term of the stipulation was from the date of the order through December 31, 2008. Total replacement costs through December 31, 2008 were $21 million, of which $16 million will be eligible for the deferred recovery mechanism. Revenues recognized and deferred for recovery under the stipulation are estimated to be approximately $2 million. All costs incurred under the program will be included in Elizabethtown Gas next rate case to be filed in 2009.
Elizabethtown Gas
 
Use of Accounting Estimates
The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We based our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Each of our estimates involve complex situations requiring a high degree of judgment either in the application and interpretation of existing literature or in the development of estimates that impact our financial statements. The most significant estimates include our PRP accruals, environmental liability accruals, uncollectible accounts and other allowance for contingencies, pension and postretirement obligations, derivative and hedging activities and provision for income taxes. Our actual results could differ from our estimates.
Accounting Developments
Previously discussed
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 160, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We adopted SFAS 160 on January 1, 2009, and applied the presentation and disclosure requirements retrospectively for all periods presented. SFAS 160 does not change the requirements of FIN 46R and provides that the noncontrolling interest should be reported as a separate component of equity on our consolidated statement of financial position.
SFAS 160
Additionally, prior to adoption of SFAS 160, we recorded our earnings allocated to Piedmont as a component of earnings before income taxes in our consolidated statements of income. SFAS 160 requires that any net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest be presented separately in our consolidated statements of income. As a result, net income from noncontrolling interest is reported after net income in order to report net income attributable to the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The adoption of SFAS 160 has no effect on our calculation of basic or diluted earnings per share amounts, which will continue to be based upon amounts attributable to AGL Resources.
Recently issued
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 161, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. SFAS 161 amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS 133 to provide an enhanced understanding of how and why derivative instruments are used, how they are accounted for and their effect on an entitys financial condition, performance and cash flows. We will adopt SFAS 161 effective on January 1, 2009, which will require additional disclosures, but will not have a financial impact to our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
SFAS 161
18
The FASB issued this FSP in June 2008 and it is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. This FSP classifies unvested share-based payment grants containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends as participating securities that will be included in the computation of earnings per share. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 145,000 restricted shares with nonforfeitable dividend rights. We will adopt FSP EITF 03-6-1 effective on January 1, 2009.
FSP EITF 03-6-1
The FASB issued this FSP in September 2008 and it is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. This FSP requires more detailed disclosures about credit derivatives, including the potential adverse effects of changes in credit risk on the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the sellers of the instruments. This FSP will have no financial impact to our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We will adopt FSP FAS 133-1 effective on January 1, 2009.
FSP FAS 133-1
The FASB issued this FSP in October 2008 and it is effective upon issuance including prior periods for which financial statements have not been issued. This FSP clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in an inactive market, including; how internal assumptions should be considered when measuring fair value, how observable market information in a market that is not active should be considered and how the use of market quotes should be used when assessing observable and unobservable data. We adopted this FSP as of September 30, 2008, it had no financial impact to our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
FSP FAS 157-3
The FASB issued this FSP in December 2008 and it is effective for the first reporting period ending after December 15, 2008. This FSP requires additional disclosures related to variable interest entities in accordance with SFAS 140 and FIN 46R. These disclosures include significant judgments and assumptions, restrictions on assets, risks and the affects on financial position, financial performance and cash flows. We adopted this FSP as of December 31, 2008, it had no financial impact to our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46R-8
Note 2  Derivative Financial Instruments and Risk Management
Netting of Cash Collateral and Derivative Assets and Liabilities under Master Netting Arrangements
We maintain accounts with brokers to facilitate financial derivative transactions in support of our derivative instrument activities. Based on the value of our positions in these accounts and the associated margin requirements, we may be required to deposit cash into these broker accounts.
On January 1, 2008, we adopted FIN 39-1, which required that we offset cash collateral held in these broker accounts on our condensed consolidated statements of financial position with the associated fair value of the instruments in the accounts. Prior to the adoption of FIN 39-1, we presented such cash collateral on a gross basis within other current assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated statements of financial position. Our cash collateral amounts are provided in the following table.
Fair value measurements
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157, which establishes a framework for measuring fair value and requires expanded disclosures regarding fair value measurements. SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements; however, it eliminates inconsistencies in the guidance provided in previous accounting pronouncements. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable, other current liabilities and accrued interest approximate fair value. The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of our long-term debt including any current portions included in our condensed consolidated statements of financial position.
We estimate the fair value of our long-term debt using a discounted cash flow technique that incorporates a market interest yield curve with adjustments for duration, optionality and risk profile.  In determining the market interest yield curve, we considered our currently assigned ratings for unsecured debt of BBB+ by S&P, Baa1 by Moodys and A- by Fitch.
19
SFAS 157 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. In December 2007, the FASB provided a one-year deferral of SFAS 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis, at least annually. We adopted SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008, for our financial assets and liabilities, which primarily consist of derivatives we record in accordance with SFAS 133. The adoption of SFAS 157 primarily impacts our disclosures and did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We will adopt SFAS 157 for our nonfinancial assets and liabilities on January 1, 2009, and are currently evaluating the impact to our condensed consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
As defined in SFAS 157, fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). We utilize market data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. These inputs can be readily observable, market corroborated, or generally unobservable. We primarily apply the market approach for
recurring fair value measurements and endeavor to utilize the best available information. Accordingly, we use valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. We are able to classify fair value balances based on the observance of those inputs. SFAS 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy defined by SFAS 157 are as follows:
Level 1
Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date. Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Our Level 1 items consist of financial instruments with exchange-traded derivatives.
Level 2
Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets included in level 1, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date. Level 2 includes those financial and commodity instruments that are valued using valuation methodologies. These methodologies are primarily industry-standard methodologies that consider various assumptions, including quoted forward prices for commodities, time value, volatility factors, and current market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economic measures. Substantially all of these assumptions are observable in the marketplace throughout the full term of the instrument, can be derived from observable data or are supported by observable levels at which transactions are executed in the marketplace. We obtain market price data from multiple sources in order to value some of our Level 2 transactions and this data is representative of transactions that occurred in the market place. As we aggregate our disclosures by counterparty, the underlying transactions for a given counterparty may be a combination of exchange-traded derivatives and values based on other sources. Instruments in this category include shorter tenor exchange-traded and non-exchange-traded derivatives such as OTC forwards and options.
Level 3
Pricing inputs include significant inputs that are generally less observable from objective sources. These inputs may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in managements best estimate of fair value. Level 3 instruments include those that may be more structured or otherwise tailored to customers needs. We do not have any material assets or liabilities classified as level 3.
The following table sets forth, by level within the fair value hierarchy, our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2008. As required by SFAS 157, financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment, and may affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities and their placement within the fair value hierarchy levels.
 
20
 
 
The determination of the fair values above incorporates various factors required under SFAS 157. These factors include not only the credit standing of the counterparties involved and the impact of credit enhancements (such as cash deposits, letters of credit and priority interests), but also the impact of our nonperformance risk on our liabilities.
Derivatives at distribution operations relate to Elizabethtown Gas and are utilized in accordance with a directive from the New Jersey Commission to create a program to hedge the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas prices. These derivative products are accounted for at fair value each reporting period. In accordance with regulatory requirements, realized gains and losses related to these derivatives are reflected in purchased gas costs and ultimately included in billings to customers. Unrealized gains and losses are reflected as a regulatory asset or liability, as appropriate, in our condensed consolidated statements of financial position.
Sequents and SouthStars derivatives include exchange-traded and OTC derivative contracts. Exchange-traded derivative contracts, which include futures and exchange-traded options, are generally based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and are classified within level 1. Some exchange-traded derivatives are valued using broker or dealer quotation services, or market transactions in either the listed or OTC markets, which are classified within level 2.
At the beginning of 2008, we had a notional principal amount of $100 million of interest rate swap agreements associated with our senior notes. In March 2008, we terminated these interest rate swap agreements. We received a payment of $2 million, which included accrued interest and the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements at the termination date. The payment was recorded as deferred income and classified as a liability in our consolidated statements of financial position. The amount will be amortized through January 2011, the remaining life of the associated senior notes. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of the termination of our interest rate swaps, classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Transfers in or out of level 3 represent existing assets or liabilities that were either previously categorized as a higher level for which the methodology inputs became unobservable or assets and liabilities that were previously classified as level 3 for which the lowest significant input became observable during the period.
Risk Management
Our risk management activities are monitored by our Risk Management Committee (RMC), which consists of members of senior management. The RMC and is charged with reviewing and enforcing our risk management activities. Our risk management policies limit the use of derivative financial instruments and physical transactions within predefined risk tolerances associated with pre-existing or anticipated physical natural gas sales and purchases and system use and storage. We use the following derivative financial instruments and physical transactions to manage commodity price, interest rate, weather, fuel price and foreign currency risks:
21
Interest Rate Swaps
To maintain an effective capital structure, our policy is to borrow funds using a mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. We entered into interest rate swap agreements for the purpose of managing the appropriate mix of risk associated with our fixed-rate and variable-rate debt obligations. We designated these interest rate swaps as fair value hedges in accordance with SFAS 133. We record the gain or loss on fair value hedges in earnings in the period of change, together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the interest rate risk being hedged.
Commodity-related Derivative Instruments
All activities associated with price risk management activities and derivative instruments are included as a component of cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our derivatives not designated as hedges under SFAS 133, included within operating cash flows as a source (use) of cash was $(129) million in 2008, $74 million in 2007, and $(112) million in 2006.
In accordance with a directive from the New Jersey Commission, Elizabethtown Gas enters into derivative transactions to hedge the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas prices. Pursuant to SFAS 133, such derivative transactions are marked to market each reporting period. In accordance with regulatory requirements, realized gains and losses related to these derivatives are reflected in purchased gas costs and ultimately included in billings to customers. As of December 31, 2008, Elizabethtown Gas had entered into OTC swap contracts to purchase approximately 11 Bcf of natural gas. Approximately 57% of these contracts have durations of one year or less, and none of these contracts extends beyond January 2011. The fair values of these derivative instruments were reflected as a current asset and liability of $23 million at December 31, 2008 and $4 million at December 31, 2007. For more information on our regulatory assets and liabilities see Note 1.
Elizabethtown Gas
Commodity-related derivative financial instruments (futures, options and swaps) are used by SouthStar to manage exposures arising from changing commodity prices. SouthStars objective for holding these derivatives is to utilize the most effective method to reduce or eliminate the impact of this exposure. We have designated a portion of SouthStars derivative transactions as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. We record derivative gains or losses arising from cash flow hedges in OCI and reclassify them into earnings in the same period as the settlement of the underlying hedged item. We record any hedge ineffectiveness, defined as when the gains or losses on the hedging instrument do not offset and are greater than the losses or gains on the hedged item, in cost of gas in our statement of consolidated income in the period in which it occurs. SouthStar currently has minimal hedge ineffectiveness. We have not designated the remainder of SouthStars derivative instruments as hedges under SFAS 133 and, accordingly, we record changes in their fair value as cost of gas in our statements of consolidated income in the period of change.
SouthStar
 
At December 31, 2008, the fair values of these derivatives were reflected in our consolidated financial statements as a current asset of $11 million, a long-term asset of $5 million and a current liability of $2 million representing a net position of 28 Bcf. This includes a $4 million current asset associated with a premium for weather derivatives.
SouthStar also enters into both exchange and OTC derivative transactions to hedge commodity price risk. Credit risk is mitigated for exchange transactions through the backing of the NYMEX member firms. For OTC transactions, SouthStar utilizes master netting arrangements to reduce overall credit risk. As of December 31, 2008, SouthStars maximum exposure to any single OTC counterparty was $8 million.
We are exposed to risks associated with changes in the market price of natural gas. Sequent uses derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to the risk of changes in the prices of natural gas. The fair value of these derivative financial instruments reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate or close the contracts at the reporting date, taking into account the current unrealized gains or losses on open contracts. We use external market quotes and indices to value substantially all the financial instruments we use.
Sequent
 
22
We mitigate substantially all the commodity price risk associated with Sequents natural gas portfolio by locking in the economic margin at the time we enter into natural gas purchase transactions for our stored natural gas. We purchase natural gas for storage when the difference in the current market price we pay to buy and transport natural gas plus the cost to store the natural gas is less than the market price we can receive in the future, resulting in a positive net operating margin. We use NYMEX futures contracts and other OTC derivatives to sell natural gas at that future price to substantially lock in the operating margin we will ultimately realize when the stored natural gas is actually sold. These futures contracts meet the definition of derivatives under SFAS 133 and are recorded at fair value and marked to market in our consolidated statements of financial position, with changes in fair value recorded in earnings in the period of change. The purchase, transportation, storage and sale of natural gas are accounted for on a weighted average cost or accrual basis, as appropriate rather than on the mark-to-market basis we utilize for the derivatives used to mitigate the commodity price risk associated with our storage portfolio. This difference in accounting can result in volatility in our reported earnings, even though the economic margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were consummated.
At December 31, 2008, Sequents commodity-related derivative financial instruments represented purchases (long) of 819 Bcf and sales (short) of 688 Bcf with approximately 92% of purchase instruments and 94% of the sales instruments are scheduled to mature in less than 2 years and the remaining 8% and 6%, respectively, in 3 to 9 years. At December 31, 2008, the fair values of these derivatives were reflected in our consolidated financial statements as an asset of $206 million and a liability of $27 million.
The changes in fair value of Sequents derivative instruments utilized in its derivative instrument activities and contract settlements increased the net fair value of its contracts outstanding by $25 million during 2008, reduced net fair value by $62 million during 2007 and increased net fair value by $132 million during 2006.
Weather Derivatives
In 2008 and 2007, SouthStar entered into weather derivative contracts as economic hedges of operating margins in the event of warmer-than-normal and colder-than-normal weather in the heating season, primarily from November through March. SouthStar accounts for these contracts using the intrinsic value method under the guidelines of EITF 99-02. SouthStar recorded current assets for this hedging activity of $4 million at December 31, 2008 and $5 million at December 31, 2007.
Concentration of Credit Risk
Concentration of credit risk occurs at Atlanta Gas Light for amounts billed for services and other costs to its customers, which consist of 11 Marketers in Georgia. The credit risk exposure to Marketers varies seasonally, with the lowest exposure in the nonpeak summer months and the highest exposure in the peak winter months. Marketers are responsible for the retail sale of natural gas to end-use customers in Georgia. These retail functions include customer service, billing, collections, and the purchase and sale of natural gas. Atlanta Gas Lights tariff allows it to obtain security support in an amount equal to no less than two times a Marketers highest months estimated bill from Atlanta Gas Light.
Atlanta Gas Light
 
Sequent has a concentration of credit risk for services it provides to marketers and to utility and industrial counterparties. This credit risk is measured by 30-day receivable exposure plus forward exposure, which is generally concentrated in 20 of its counterparties. Sequent evaluates the credit risk of its counterparties using a S&P equivalent credit rating, which is determined by a process of converting the lower of the S&P or Moodys rating to an internal rating ranging from 9.00 to 1.00, with 9.00 being equivalent to AAA/Aaa by S&P and Moodys and 1.00 being equivalent to D or Default by S&P and Moodys. For a customer without an external rating, Sequent assigns an internal rating based on Sequents analysis of the strength of its financial ratios. At December 31, 2008, Sequents top 20 counterparties represented approximately 63% of the total credit exposure of $505 million, derived by adding together the top 20 counterparties exposures and dividing by the total of Sequents counterparties exposures. Sequents counterparties or the counterparties guarantors had a weighted average S&P equivalent rating of A- at December 31, 2008.
Wholesale Services
 
The weighted average credit rating is obtained by multiplying each customers assigned internal rating by its credit exposure and then adding the individual results for all counterparties. That total is divided by the aggregate total exposure. This numeric value is converted to an S&P equivalent.
Sequent has established credit policies to determine and monitor the creditworthiness of counterparties, including requirements for posting of collateral or other credit security, as well as the quality of pledged collateral. Collateral or credit security is most often in the form of cash or letters of credit from an investment-grade financial institution, but may also include cash or U.S. Government Securities held by a trustee. When Sequent is engaged in more than one outstanding derivative transaction with the same counterparty and it also has a legally enforceable netting agreement with that counterparty, the net mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with that counterparty and a reasonable measure of Sequents credit risk. Sequent also uses other netting agreements with certain counterparties with which it conducts significant transactions.
23
Note 3 - Employee Benefit Plans
Oversight of Plans
The Retirement Plan Investment Committee (the Committee) appointed by our Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the investments of the retirement plans. Further, we have an Investment Policy (the Policy) for the retirement and postretirement benefit plans that aims to preserve these plans capital and maximize investment earnings in excess of inflation within acceptable levels of capital market volatility. To accomplish this goal, the retirement and postretirement benefit plans assets are actively managed to optimize long-term return while maintaining a high standard of portfolio quality and proper diversification.
The Policys risk management strategy establishes a maximum tolerance for risk in terms of volatility to be measured at 75% of the volatility experienced by the S&P 500. We will continue to diversify retirement plan investments to minimize the risk of large losses in a single asset class. The Policys permissible investments include domestic and international equities (including convertible securities and mutual funds), domestic and international fixed income (corporate and U.S. government obligations), cash and cash equivalents and other suitable investments. The asset mix of these permissible investments is maintained within the Policys target allocations as included in the preceding tables, but the Committee can vary allocations between various classes or investment managers in order to improve investment results.
Equity market performance and corporate bond rates have a significant effect on our reported unfunded ABO, as the primary factors that drive the value of our unfunded ABO are the assumed discount rate and the actual return on plan assets. Additionally, equity market performance has a significant effect on our market-related value of plan assets (MRVPA), which is a calculated value and differs from the actual market value of plan assets. The MRVPA recognizes the difference between the actual market value and expected market value of our plan assets and is determined by our actuaries using a five-year moving weighted average methodology. Gains and losses on plan assets are spread through the MRVPA based on the five-year moving weighted average methodology, which affects the expected return on plan assets component of pension expense.
 
Pension Benefits
We sponsor two tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plans for our eligible employees, the AGL Resources Inc. Retirement Plan (AGL Retirement Plan) and the Employees Retirement Plan of NUI Corporation (NUI Retirement Plan). A defined benefit plan specifies the amount of benefits an eligible participant eventually will receive using information about the participant.
We generally calculate the benefits under the AGL Retirement Plan based on age, years of service and pay. The benefit formula for the AGL Retirement Plan is a career average earnings formula, except for participants who were employees as of July 1, 2000, and who were at least 50 years of age as of that date. For those participants, we use a final average earnings benefit formula, and will continue to use this benefit formula for such participants until June 2010, at which time any of those participants who are still active will accrue future benefits under the career average earnings formula.
The NUI Retirement Plan covers substantially all of NUIs employees who were employed on or before December 31, 2006, except Florida City Gas union employees, who until February 2008 participated in a union-sponsored multiemployer plan. Pension benefits are based on years of credited service and final average compensation.
Postretirement Benefits
We sponsor a defined benefit postretirement health care plan for our eligible employees, the Health and Welfare Plan for Retirees and Inactive Employees of AGL Resources Inc. (AGL Postretirement Plan). Eligibility for these benefits is based on age and years of service.
The AGL Postretirement Plan covers all eligible AGL Resources employees who were employed as of June 30, 2002, if they reach retirement age while working for us. The state regulatory commissions have approved phase-ins that defer a portion of other postretirement benefits expense for future recovery. We recorded a regulatory asset for these future recoveries of $11 million as of December 31, 2008 and $12 million as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we recorded a regulatory liability of $5 million as of December 31, 2008 and $4 million as of December 31, 2007 for our expected expenses under the AGL Postretirement Plan. We expect to pay $7 million of insurance claims for the postretirement plan in 2009, but we do not anticipate making any additional contributions.
 
24
Effective December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 was signed into law. This act provides for a prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Part D) as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D.
Medicare-eligible participants receive prescription drug benefits through a Medicare Part D plan offered by a third party and to which we subsidize participant premiums. Medicare-eligible retirees who opt out of the AGL Postretirement Plan are eligible to receive a cash subsidy which may be used towards eligible prescription drug expenses.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 158, which we adopted prospectively on December 31, 2007. SFAS 158 requires that we recognize all obligations related to defined benefit pensions and other postretirement benefits. This statement requires that we quantify the plans funding status as an asset or a liability on our consolidated statements of financial position. SFAS 158 further requires that we measure the plans assets and obligations that determine our funded status as of the end of the fiscal year. We are also required to recognize as a component of OCI the changes in funded status that occurred during the year that are not recognized as part of net periodic benefit cost as explained in SFAS 87, or SFAS 106.
SFAS 158
Based on the funded status of our defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans as of December 31, 2008, we reported an after-tax loss to our OCI of $111 million, a net increase of $184 million to accrued pension and postretirement obligations and a decrease of $73 million to accumulated deferred income taxes. Our adoption of SFAS 158 on December 31, 2007, had no impact on our earnings.
Contributions
Our employees do not contribute to the retirement plans. Additionally, we annually fund our postretirement plan; however, our retirees contribute 20% of medical premiums, 50% of the medical premium for spousal coverage and 100% of the dental premium to the AGL Postretirement Plan. We fund the plans by contributing at least the minimum amount required by applicable regulations and as recommended by our actuary. However, we may also contribute in excess of the minimum required amount. We calculate the minimum amount of funding using the projected unit credit cost method.
The Pension Protection Act (the Act) of 2006 contained new funding requirements for single employer defined benefit pension plans. The Act establishes a 100% funding target for plan years beginning after December 31, 2008. However, a delayed effective date of 2011 may apply if the pension plan meets the following targets; 92% funded in 2008; 94% funded in 2009; and 96% funded in 2010. In December 2008, the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 allowed us to measure our 2008 and 2009 funding target at 92%. In 2008 and 2007, we did not make contributions as one was not required for our pension plans. For more information on our 2009 contributions to our pension plans, see Note 7.
25
The following tables present details about our pension and postretirement plans.
 
The components of our pension and postretirement benefit costs are set forth in the following table.
 
There were no other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized for our retirement and postretirement plans for the year ended December 31, 2008.The 2009 estimated OCI amortization and expected refunds for these plans are set forth in the following table.
We consider a number of factors in determining and selecting assumptions for the overall expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We consider the historical long-term return experience of our assets, the current and expected allocation of our plan assets, and expected long-term rates of return. We derive these expected long-term rates of return with the assistance of our investment advisors and generally base these rates on a 10-year horizon for various asset classes, our expected investments of plan assets and active asset management as opposed to investment in a passive index fund. We base our expected allocation of plan assets on a diversified portfolio consisting of domestic and international equity securities, fixed income, real estate, private equity securities and alternative asset classes.
26
We consider a variety of factors in determining and selecting our assumptions for the discount rate at December 31. We consider certain market indices, including Moodys Corporate AA long-term bond rate, the Citigroup Pension Liability rate, a single equivalent discount rate derived with the assistance of our actuaries and our own payment stream based on these indices to develop our rate. Consequently, we selected a discount rate of 6.2% as of December 31, 2008, following our review of these various factors. Our actual retirement and postretirement plans weighted average asset allocations at December 31, 2008 and 2007 and our target asset allocation ranges are as follows:
 
Our health care trend rate for the AGL Postretirement Plan is capped at 2.5%. This cap limits the increase in our contributions to the annual change in the consumer price index (CPI). An annual CPI rate of 2.5% was assumed for future years. Assumed health care cost trend rates impact the amounts reported for our health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects for the AGL Postretirement Plan.
The following table presents expected benefit payments for the years ended December 31, 2009 through 2018 for our retirement and postretirement plans. There will be benefit payments under these plans beyond 2018.
The following table presents the amounts not yet reflected in net periodic benefit cost and included in accumulated OCI as of December 31, 2008.
There were no other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in our retirement and postretirement plans for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Employee Savings Plan Benefits
We sponsor the Retirement Savings Plus Plan (RSP), a defined contribution benefit plan that allows eligible participants to make contributions to their accounts up to specified limits. Under the RSP, we made matching contributions to participant accounts of $6 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006.
 
27
 
Note 4 - Stock-based and Other Incentive Compensation Plans and Agreements
General
We currently sponsor the following stock-based and other incentive compensation plans and agreements:
Accounting Treatment and Compensation Expense
Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R, using the modified prospective application transition method. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for our share-based payment transactions in accordance with SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148. This allowed us to rely on APB 25 and related interpretations in accounting for our stock-based compensation plans under the intrinsic value method.
SFAS 123R requires us to measure and recognize stock-based compensation expense in our financial statements based on the estimated fair value at the date of grant for our stock-based awards, which include:
Performance-based stock awards and performance units contain market conditions. Stock options, restricted stock awards and performance units also contain a service condition. In accordance with SFAS 123R, we recognize compensation expense over the requisite service period for:
In addition, we estimate forfeitures over the requisite service period when recognizing compensation expense. These estimates are adjusted to the extent that actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to materially differ, from such estimates.
The following table provides additional information on compensation costs and income tax benefits related to our stock-based compensation awards. We recorded these amounts in our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
28
Prior to our adoption of SFAS 123R, benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation costs were reported as operating cash flows. SFAS 123R requires excess tax benefits to be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid. In 2007 and 2006, our cash flows from financing activities included an immaterial amount for recognized compensation costs in excess of the benefits of tax deductions. In 2008, we included $2 million of such benefits in cash flow provided by operating activities.
Incentive and Nonqualified Stock Options
We grant incentive and nonqualified stock options with a strike price equal to the fair market value on the date of the grant. Fair market value is defined under the terms of the applicable plans as the most recent closing price per share of AGL Resources common stock as reported in . Stock options generally have a three-year vesting period. Nonqualified options generally expire 10 years after the date of grant. Participants realize value from option grants only to the extent that the fair market value of our common stock on the date of exercise of the option exceeds the fair market value of the common stock on the date of the grant. Compensation expense associated with stock options is generally recorded over the option vesting period; however, for unvested options that are granted to employees who are retirement-eligible, the remaining compensation expense is recorded in the current period rather than over the remaining vesting period.
The Wall Street Journal
As of December 31, 2008, we had $2 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to stock options. These costs are expected to be recognized over the remaining average requisite service period of approximately 2 years. Cash received from stock option exercises for 2008 was $5 million, and the income tax benefit from stock option exercises was $1 million. The following tables summarize activity related to stock options for key employees and non-employee directors.
(1) Includes 4,226 shares which expired in 2008, none in 2007 and 452 in 2006.
 
 
 
29
 
Information about outstanding and exercisable options as of December 31, 2008, is as follows.
Summarized below are outstanding options that are fully exercisable.
In accordance with the fair value method of determining compensation expense, we use the Black-Scholes pricing model. Below are the ranges for per share value and information about the underlying assumptions used in developing the grant date value for each of the grants made during 2008, 2007 and 2006.
Intrinsic value for options is defined as the difference between the current market value and the grant price. Total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2008 was $2 million. With the implementation of our share repurchase program in 2006, we use shares purchased under this program to satisfy share-based exercises to the extent that repurchased shares are available. Otherwise, we issue new shares from our authorized common stock.
Performance Units
In general, a performance unit is an award of the right to receive (i) an equal number of shares of our common stock, which we refer to as a restricted stock unit or (ii) cash, subject to the achievement of certain pre-established performance criteria, which we refer to as a performance cash unit. Performance units are subject to certain transfer restrictions and forfeiture upon termination of employment. The dollar value of restricted stock unit awards is equal to the grant date fair value of the awards, over the requisite service period, determined pursuant to FAS 123R. The dollar value of performance cash unit awards is equal to the grant date fair value of the awards measured against progress towards the performance measure, over the requisite service period, determined pursuant to FAS 123R. No other assumptions are used to value these awards.
In general, a restricted stock unit is an award that represents the opportunity to receive a specified number of shares of our common stock, subject to the achievement of certain pre-established performance criteria. In 2008, we granted to a select group a total of 206,700 restricted stock units (the 2008 restricted stock units), of which 196,100 of these units were outstanding as of December 31, 2008. These restricted stock units had a performance measurement period that ended December 31, 2008, and a performance measure related to a basic earnings per share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. goal that was met.
Restricted Stock Units
 
30
In general, a performance cash unit is an award that represents the opportunity to receive a cash award, subject to the achievement of certain pre-established performance criteria. In 2008, we granted performance cash awards to a select group of officers. These awards have a performance measure that is related to annual growth in basic earnings per share attributable to AGL Resources Inc., plus the average dividend yield, as adjusted to reflect the effect of economic value created during the performance measurement period by our wholesale services segment. In 2008, basic earnings per share attributable to AGL Resources Inc. growth target were not achieved with respect to the 2007 awards. Accruals in connection with these grants are as follows:
Performance Cash Units
 
Stock and Restricted Stock Awards
In general, we refer to a stock award as an award of our common stock that is 100% vested and not forfeitable as of the date of grant. We refer to restricted stock as an award of our common stock that is subject to time-based vesting or achievement of performance measures. Restricted stock awards are subject to certain transfer restrictions and forfeiture upon termination of employment. The dollar value of both stock awards and restricted stock awards are equal to the grant date fair value of the awards, over the requisite service period, determined pursuant to FAS 123R. No other assumptions are used to value the awards.
Non-employee director compensation may be paid in shares of our common stock in connection with initial election, the annual retainer, and chair retainers, as applicable. Stock awards for non-employee directors are 100% vested and nonforfeitable as of the date of grant. The following table summarizes activity during 2008, related to stock awards for our non-employee directors.
Stock Awards
Non-Employee Directors
 
 
 
 From time to time, we may give restricted stock awards to our key employees. The following table summarizes activity during the year ended December 31, 2008, related to restricted stock awards for our key employees.
Restricted Stock Awards
Employees
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP)
Under the ESPP, employees may purchase shares of our common stock in quarterly intervals at 85% of fair market value. Employee contributions under the ESPP may not exceed $25,000 per employee during any calendar year.
 
31
 
Note 5 - Equity
Treasury Shares
Our Board of Directors has authorized us to purchase up to 8 million treasury shares through our repurchase plans. These plans are used to offset shares issued under our employee and non-employee director incentive compensation plans and our dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plans. Stock purchases under these plans may be made in the open market or in private transactions at times and in amounts that we deem appropriate. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that we will purchase, and we can terminate or limit the program at any time. We will hold the purchased shares as treasury shares and account for them using the cost method. As of December 31, 2008 we had 5 million remaining authorized shares available for purchase. The following table provides more information on our treasury share activity.
Dividends
Our shareholders may receive dividends when declared at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Dividends may be paid in cash, stock or other form of payment, and payment of future dividends will depend on our future earnings, cash flow, financial requirements and other factors. Additionally, we derive a substantial portion of our consolidated assets, earnings and cash flow from the operation of regulated utility subsidiaries, whose legal authority to pay dividends or make other distributions to us is subject to regulation. As with most other companies, the payment of dividends are restricted by laws in the states where we do business. In certain cases, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is limited by the following:
Note 6 - Debt
Our issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by state and federal regulatory bodies, including state public service commissions, the SEC and the FERC as granted by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The following table provides more information on our various securities.
 
32
 
Short-term Debt
Our short-term debt at December 31, 2008 and 2007 was composed of borrowings under our commercial paper program; Credit Facilities; current portions of our capital lease obligations; and lines of credit for Sequent, SouthStar and Pivotal Utility.
Our commercial paper consists of short-term, unsecured promissory notes with maturities ranging from 2 to 16 days. These unsecured promissory notes are supported by our $1 billion Credit Facility which expires in August 2011 and a supplemental $140 million Credit Facility that expires in September 2009. We have the option to request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available for borrowing under the $1 billion Credit Facility to $1.25 billion on not more than three occasions during each calendar year. The $140 million Credit Facility allows for the option to request an increase in the borrowing capacity to $150 million.
Commercial Paper and Credit Facilities
 
Several of our subsidiaries, including SouthStar participate in our commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2008, we had $273 million of commercial paper borrowings and $500 million outstanding under the Credit Facilities. As of December 31, 2007, we did not have any amounts outstanding under the Credit Facilities.
SouthStars five-year $75 million unsecured credit facility expires in November 2011. SouthStar will use this line of credit for working capital and its general corporate needs. We had $75 million of outstanding borrowings on this line of credit at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2007, there were no outstanding borrowings on this line of credit. We do not guarantee or provide any other form of security for the repayment of this credit facility.
SouthStar
Credit Facility
In June 2008, we extended Sequents $25 million unsecured line of credit to June 2009, which bears interest at the federal funds effective rate plus 0.75%. In September 2008, Sequent extended its second $20 million line of credit that bears interest at the LIBOR rate plus 1.0% to September 2009. In December 2008 the terms of this line of credit were amended to $5 million bearing interest at the LIBOR Rate plus 3.0%. Both lines of credit are used solely for the posting of margin deposits for NYMEX transactions and are unconditionally guaranteed by us.
Sequent Lines of Credit
 
This $20 million line of credit, which had been established to support Elizabethtown Gas hedging program, was terminated in October 2008. For more information on this hedging program, see Note 2.
Pivotal Utility Line of Credit
Long-term Debt
Our long-term debt at December 31, 2008 and 2007 matures more than one year from the statement of financial position date and consists of medium-term notes: Series A, Series B and Series C, which we issued under an indenture dated December 1, 1989; senior notes; gas facility revenue bonds; and capital leases. Our annual maturities of long-term debt, excluding capital leases of $4 million, are as follows:
The following table provides more information on our medium-term notes, which were issued to refinance portions of our existing short-term debt and for general corporate purposes. Our annual maturities of our medium-term notes are as follows:
Medium-term notes
 
The following table provides more information on our senior notes, which were issued to refinance portions of our existing short-term and long-term debt, to finance acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.
Senior Notes
 
 
33
 
The trustee with respect to all of the above-referenced senior notes is The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., pursuant to an indenture dated February 20, 2001. We fully and unconditionally guarantee all of our senior notes.
Pivotal Utility is party to a series of loan agreements with the New Jersey Economic Development Authority (NJEDA) pursuant to which the NJEDA has issued a series of gas facility revenue bonds as shown in the following table.
Gas Facility Revenue Bonds
 
In 2008, a portion of our gas facility revenue bonds failed to draw enough potential buyers due to the dislocation or disruption in the auction markets as a result of the downgrades to the bond insurers that provide credit protections for these instruments which reduced investor demand and liquidity for these types of investments. In March and April 2008, we tendered these bonds with a cumulative principal amount of $161 million through commercial paper borrowings.
In June and September 2008, we completed a Letter of Credit Agreement for these bonds which provided additional credit support which increased investor demand for the bonds. As a result, these bonds with a cumulative principal amount of $161 million were successfully auctioned and issued as variable rate gas facility bonds and reduced our commercial paper borrowings. The bonds with principal amounts of $55 million, $47 million and $39 million now have interest rates that reset daily and the bond with a principal amount of $20 million has an interest rate that resets weekly. There was no change to the maturity dates on these bonds.
As of December 31, 2008, we had 10 million shares of authorized, unissued Class A junior participating preferred stock, no par value, and 10 million shares of authorized, unissued preferred stock, no par value.
Preferred Securities
 
Our capital leases consist primarily of a sale/leaseback transaction completed in 2002 by Florida City Gas related to its gas meters and other equipment and will be repaid at approximately $1 million per year until 2013. Pursuant to the terms of the lease agreement, Florida City Gas is required to insure the leased equipment during the lease term. In addition, at the expiration of the lease term, Florida City Gas has the option to purchase the leased meters from the lessor at their fair market value. The fair market value of the equipment will be determined on the basis of an arms-length transaction between an informed and willing buyer.
Capital Leases
Default Events
Our Credit Facilities financial covenants requires us to maintain a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no greater than 70%; however, our goal is to maintain this ratio at levels between 50% and 60%. Our ratio of total debt to total capitalization calculation contained in our debt covenant includes noncontrolling interest, standby letters of credit, surety bonds and the exclusion of other comprehensive income pension adjustments. Adjusting for these items, our debt-to-equity calculation, as defined by our Credit Facilities, was 59% at December 31, 2008 and 58% at December 31, 2007. These amounts are within our required and targeted ranges. Our debt-to-equity calculation, as calculated from our consolidated statements of financial position, was 60% at December 31, 2008 and 57% at December 31, 2007.
Our debt instruments and other financial obligations include provisions that, if not complied with, could require early payment, additional collateral support or similar actions. Our most important default events include:
We have no trigger events in our debt instruments that are tied to changes in our specified credit ratings or our stock price and have not entered into any transaction that requires us to issue equity based on credit ratings or other trigger events. We are currently in compliance with all existing debt provisions and covenants.
 
34
 
 
Note 7 - Commitments and Contingencies
We have incurred various contractual obligations and financial commitments in the normal course of our operating and financing activities that are reasonably likely to have a material affect on liquidity or the availability of requirements for capital resources. Contractual obligations include future cash payments required under existing contractual arrangements, such as debt and lease agreements. These obligations may result from both general financing activities and from commercial arrangements that are directly supported by related revenue-producing activities. As we do for other subsidiaries, we provide guarantees to certain gas suppliers for SouthStar in support of payment obligations. The following table illustrates our expected future contractual payments such as debt and lease agreements, and commitment and contingencies as of December 31, 2008.
 
 
Environmental Remediation Costs
We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control. These laws and regulations require us to remove or remedy the effect on the environment of the disposal or release of specified substances at current and former operating sites.
The presence of coal tar and certain other byproducts of a natural gas manufacturing process used to produce natural gas prior to the 1950s has been identified at or near 10 former Atlanta Gas Light operating sites in Georgia and at 3 sites of predecessor companies in Florida. Atlanta Gas Light has active environmental remediation or monitoring programs in effect at 10 of these sites. Two sites in Florida are currently in the investigation or preliminary engineering design phase, and one Georgia site has been deemed compliant with state standards.
Atlanta Gas Light
 
35
Atlanta Gas Light has customarily reported estimates of future remediation costs for these former sites based on probabilistic models of potential costs. These estimates are reported on an undiscounted basis. As cleanup options and plans mature and cleanup contracts are entered into, Atlanta Gas Light is better able to provide conventional engineering estimates of the likely costs of remediation at its former sites. These estimates contain various engineering uncertainties, but Atlanta Gas Light continuously attempts to refine and update these engineering estimates.
Atlanta Gas Lights current estimate for the remaining cost of future actions at its former operating sites is $38 million, which may change depending on whether future measures for groundwater will be required. As of December 31, 2008, we have recorded a liability equal to the low end of the range of $38 million, of which $10 million is expected to be incurred over the next 12 months.
These liabilities do not include other potential expenses, such as unasserted property damage claims, personal injury or natural resource damage claims, unbudgeted legal expenses or other costs for which Atlanta Gas Light may be held liable but for which it cannot reasonably estimate an amount.
The ERC liability is included as a corresponding regulatory asset, which is a combination of accrued ERC and unrecovered cash expenditures for investigation and cleanup costs. Atlanta Gas Light has three ways of recovering investigation and cleanup costs. First, the Georgia Commission has approved an ERC recovery rider. The ERC recovery mechanism allows for recovery of expenditures over a five-year period subsequent to the period in which the expenditures are incurred. Atlanta Gas Light expects to collect $17 million in revenues over the next 12 months under the ERC recovery rider, which is reflected as a current asset. The amounts recovered from the ERC recovery rider during the last three years were:
The second way to recover costs is by exercising the legal rights Atlanta Gas Light believes it has to recover a share of its costs from other potentially responsible parties, typically former owners or operators of these sites. There were no material recoveries from potentially responsible parties during 2008, 2007 or 2006.
The third way to recover costs is from the receipt of net profits from the sale of remediated property.
In New Jersey, Elizabethtown Gas is currently conducting remediation activities with oversight from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. Although we cannot estimate the actual total cost of future environmental investigation and remediation efforts with precision, based on probabilistic models similar to those used at Atlanta Gas Lights former operating sites, the range of reasonably possible costs is $58 million to $116 million. As of December 31, 2008, we have recorded a liability equal to the low end of that range, or $58 million, of which $7 million in expenditures are expected to be incurred over the next 12 months.
Elizabethtown Gas
 
Prudently incurred remediation costs for the New Jersey properties have been authorized by the New Jersey Commission to be recoverable in rates through a remediation adjustment clause. As a result, Elizabethtown Gas has recorded a regulatory asset of approximately $66 million, inclusive of interest, as of December 31, 2008, reflecting the future recovery of both incurred costs and accrued carrying charges. Elizabethtown Gas expects to collect approximately $1 million in revenues over the next 12 months. Elizabethtown Gas has also been successful in recovering a portion of remediation costs incurred in New Jersey from its insurance carriers and continues to pursue additional recovery.
We own a site in Elizabeth City, North Carolina that is subject to a remediation order by the North Carolina Department of Energy and Natural Resources. We had recorded liabilities of $10 million as of December 31, 2008 and $11 million as of December 31, 2007 related to this site.
There is one other site in North Carolina where investigation and remediation is likely, although no remediation order exists and we do not believe costs associated with this site can be reasonably estimated. In addition, there are as many as six other sites with which we had some association, although no basis for liability has been asserted, and accordingly we have not accrued any remediation liability. There are currently no cost recovery mechanisms for the environmental remediation sites in North Carolina.
Rental Expense
We incurred rental expense in the amounts of $21 million in 2008, $21 million in 2007 and $19 million in 2006.
Litigation
We are involved in litigation arising in the normal course of business. We believe the ultimate resolution of such litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
36
In August 2006, the Office of Mineral Resources of the Louisiana DNR informed Jefferson Island that its mineral lease  which authorizes salt extraction to create two new storage caverns  at Lake Peigneur had been terminated. The Louisiana DNR identified two bases for the termination: (1) failure to make certain mining leasehold payments in a timely manner, and (2) the absence of salt mining operations for six months.
In September 2006, Jefferson Island filed suit against the State of Louisiana, in the 19 Judicial District Court in Baton Rouge, to maintain its lease to complete an ongoing natural gas storage expansion project in Louisiana. The project would add two salt dome storage caverns under Lake Peigneur to the two caverns currently owned and operated by Jefferson Island. In its suit, Jefferson Island alleges that the Louisiana DNR accepted all leasehold payments without reservation and never provided Jefferson Island with notice and opportunity to cure, as required by state law. In its answer to the suit, the State denied that anyone with proper authority approved the late payments. As to the second basis for termination, the suit contends that Jefferson Islands lease with the State of Louisiana was amended in 2004 so that mining operations are no longer required to maintain the lease. The States answer denies that the 2004 amendment was properly authorized. In March 2008, Jefferson Island served discovery requests on the State of Louisiana and sought a trial date in its pending lawsuit over its natural gas storage expansion project at Lake Peigneur. Jefferson Island also asserted additional claims against the State seeking to obtain a declaratory ruling that Jefferson Islands surface lease, under which it operates its existing two storage caverns, authorizes the creation of the two new expansion caverns separate and apart from the mineral lease challenged by the State.
th
In addition, in June 2008, the State of Louisiana passed legislation restricting water usage from the Chicot aquifer, which is a main source of fresh water required for the expansion of our Jefferson Island capacity. We contend that this legislation is unconstitutional and have sought to amend the pending litigation to seek a declaration that the legislation is invalid and cannot be enforced. Even if we are not successful on those grounds, we believe the legislation does not materially impact the feasibility of the expansion project. If we are unable to reach a settlement, we are not able to predict the outcome of the litigation. As of January 2009, our current estimate of costs incurred that would be considered unusable if the Louisiana DNR was successful in terminating our lease and causing us to cease the expansion project is approximately $6 million.
In February 2008, the consumer affairs staff of the Georgia Commission alleged that GNG charged its customers on variable rate plans prices for natural gas that were in excess of the published price, that it failed to give proper notice regarding the availability of potentially lower price plans and that it changed its methodology for computing variable rates. GNG asserted that it fully complied with all applicable rules and regulations, that it properly charged its customers on variable rate plans the rates on file with the Georgia Commission, and that, consistent with its terms and conditions of service, it routinely switched customers who requested to move to another price plan for which they qualified. In order to resolve this matter GNG agreed to pay $2.5 million in the form of credits to customers, or as directed by the Georgia Commission, which was recorded in our statements of consolidated income for the year ended December 31, 2008.
In February 2008, a class action lawsuit was filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County in the State of Georgia against GNG containing similar allegations to those asserted by the Georgia Commission staff and seeking damages on behalf of a class of GNG customers. This lawsuit was dismissed in September 2008. In October 2008, the plaintiffs appealed the dismissal of the lawsuit and the parties are in the process of filing briefs on that appeal.
In March 2008, a second class action suit was filed against GNG in the State Court of Fulton County in the State of Georgia, regarding monthly service charges. This lawsuit alleges that GNG arbitrarily assigned customer service charges rather than basing each customer service charge on a specific credit score. GNG asserts that no violation of law or Georgia Commission rules has occurred, that this lawsuit is without merit and has filed motions to dismiss this class action suit on various grounds. The ultimate resolution of this lawsuit cannot be determined, but is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our condensed consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
Review of Compliance with FERC Regulations
In 2008, we conducted an internal review of our compliance with FERC interstate natural gas pipeline capacity release rules and regulations. Independent of our internal review, we also received data requests from FERCs Office of Enforcement relating specifically to compliance with FERCs capacity release posting and bidding requirements. We have responded to FERCs data requests and are fully cooperating with FERC in its investigation. As a result of this process, we have identified certain instances of possible non-compliance. We are committed to full regulatory compliance and we have met with the FERC Enforcement staff to discuss with them these instances of possible non-compliance. Accordingly we have accrued an appropriate estimate of possible penalties assessed by the FERC. This estimate does not have, and management does not believe the ultimate resolution will have, a material financial impact to our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
37
Note 8 - Income Taxes
We have two categories of income taxes in our statements of consolidated income: current and deferred. Current income tax expense consists of federal and state income tax less applicable tax credits related to the current year. Deferred income tax expense generally is equal to the changes in the deferred income tax liability and regulatory tax liability during the year.
Investment and Other Tax Credits
Deferred investment tax credits associated with distribution operations are included as a regulatory liability in our consolidated statements of financial position (see Note 1, Accounting Policies and Methods of Application). These investment tax credits are being amortized over the estimated life of the related properties as credits to income in accordance with regulatory requirements. In 2007, we invested in a guaranteed affordable housing tax credit fund. We reduce income tax expense in our statements of consolidated income for the investment tax credits and other tax credits associated with our nonregulated subsidiaries, including the affordable housing credits. Components of income tax expense shown in the statements of consolidated income are shown in the following table.
Income Tax Expense
The relative split between current and deferred taxes is due to a variety of factors including true ups of prior year tax returns, and most importantly, the timing of our property-related deductions.
The amount of total income tax expense on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is presented in the following table. Our adoption of SFAS 160 had no effect on the total income tax expense reported in our consolidated statements of income or on our accrued federal and state income taxes, including accumulated deferred income taxes as reported in our consolidated statements of financial position.
 
 
38
Accumulated Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities
We report some of our assets and liabilities differently for financial accounting purposes than we do for income tax purposes. We report the tax effects of the differences in those items as deferred income tax assets or liabilities in our consolidated statements of financial position. We measure the assets and liabilities using income tax rates that are currently in effect. Because of the regulated nature of the utilities business, we recorded a regulatory tax liability in accordance with SFAS 109, which we are amortizing over approximately 30 years (see Note 1 Accounting Policies and Methods of Application). Our deferred tax assets include $86 million related to an unfunded pension and postretirement benefit obligation an increase of $51 million from 2007.
As indicated in the following table, our deferred tax assets and liabilities include certain items we acquired from NUI. We have provided a valuation allowance for some of these items that reduce our net deferred tax assets to amounts we believe are more likely than not to be realized in future periods. With respect to our continuing operations, we have net operating losses in various jurisdictions. Components that give rise to the net accumulated deferred income tax liability are as follows.
Tax Benefits
In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, which addressed the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the financial statements. Under FIN 48, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, accounting in interim periods and requires increased disclosures. We adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. At the date of adoption, as of December 31, 2007 and as of December 31, 2008, we did not have a liability for unrecognized tax benefits. Based on current information, we do not anticipate that this will change materially in 2009.
We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in operating expenses in the consolidated statements of income, which is consistent with the recognition of these items in prior reporting periods. As of December 31, 2008, we did not have a liability recorded for payment of interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions.
We file a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return and various state income tax returns. We are no longer subject to income tax examinations by the Internal Revenue Service or any state for years before 2002, but we are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service for tax years 2006 and 2007.
 
39
 
 
Note 9 - Segment Information
We are an energy services holding company whose principal business is the distribution of natural gas in six states - Florida, Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, Tennessee and Virginia. We generate nearly all our operating revenues through the sale, distribution, transportation and storage of natural gas. We are involved in several related and complementary businesses, including retail natural gas marketing to end-use customers primarily in Georgia; natural gas asset management and related logistics activities for each of our utilities as well as for nonaffiliated companies; natural gas storage arbitrage and related activities; and the development and operation of high-deliverability natural gas storage assets. We manage these businesses through four operating segments  distribution operations, retail energy operations, wholesale services and energy investments and a nonoperating corporate segment which includes intercompany eliminations.
We evaluate segment performance based primarily on the non-GAAP measure of EBIT, which includes the effects of corporate expense allocations. EBIT is a non-GAAP measure that includes operating income and other income and expenses. Items we do not include in EBIT are financing costs, including interest and debt expense and income taxes, each of which we evaluate on a consolidated level. We believe EBIT is a useful measurement of our performance because it provides information that can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of our businesses from an operational perspective, exclusive of the costs to finance those activities and exclusive of income taxes, neither of which is directly relevant to the efficiency of those operations.
You should not consider EBIT an alternative to, or a more meaningful indicator of, our operating performance than operating income or net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our EBIT may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure of another company. The reconciliations of EBIT to operating income, earnings before income taxes and net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. for 2008, 2007 and 2006 are presented below.
Summarized income statement, statement of financial position and capital expenditure information by segment as of and for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is shown in the following tables.
 
40
 
 
(1) Intercompany revenues  Wholesale services records its derivative instrument revenue on a net basis. Wholesale services total operating revenues include intercompany revenues of $982 million in 2008, $638 million in 2007 and $531 million in 2006.
 
 
41
 
Note 10 - Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
Our quarterly financial data for 2008, 2007 and 2006 are summarized below. The variance in our quarterly earnings is the result of the seasonal nature of our primary business.
Our basic and diluted earnings per common share are calculated based on the weighted daily average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding during the quarter. Those totals differ from the basic and diluted earnings per common share shown in the statements of consolidated income, which are based on the weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding during the entire year.
attributable to AGL Resources Inc. common shareholders
 
42
 


