FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20100510103820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure
On May 10, 2010, AGL Resources Inc. will host its 2010 Analyst/Investor Conference, which is being held in New York, NY. The presentation is expected to begin at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, and will be available via a live audio webcast on the Investor Relations section of the AGL Resources website at www.aglresources.com. The presentation will include slides attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 through 99.7 and incorporated by reference herein.
Our management evaluates segment financial performance based on earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), which includes the effects of corporate expense allocations. EBIT is a non-GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) financial measure. Items that are not included in EBIT are financing costs, including debt and interest expense and income taxes. We evaluate each of these items on a consolidated level and believe EBIT is a useful measurement of our performance because it provides information that can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of our businesses from an operational perspective, exclusive of the costs to finance those activities and exclusive of income taxes, neither of which is directly relevant to the efficiency of those operations.
We also use EBIT internally to measure performance against budget and in reports for management and the Board of Directors. Projections of forward-looking EBIT are used in our internal budgeting process, and those projections are used in providing forward-looking business segment EBIT projections to investors. We are unable to reconcile our forward-looking EBIT business segment guidance to GAAP net income because we do not predict the future impact of unusual items and mark-to-market gains or losses on energy contracts. The impact of these items could be material to our operating results reported in accordance with GAAP.
Operating margin is a non-GAAP measure calculated as revenues minus cost of gas, excluding operation and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization, taxes other than income taxes, and the gain or loss on the sale of our assets. These items are included in our calculation of operating income. We believe operating margin is a better indicator than operating revenues of the contribution resulting from customer growth, since cost of gas is generally passed directly through to customers.
EBIT and operating margin should not be considered as alternatives to, or more meaningful indicators of, our operating performance than operating income or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our EBIT or operating margin may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of another company. A reconciliation of operating margin and EBIT by segment is available in our quarterly reports (Form 10-Q) and annual reports (Form 10-K) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and on Exhibit 99.7, GAAP Reconciliations.
The information in the preceding paragraph, as well as Exhibits 99.1  99.7 referenced therein, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 unless AGL Resources Inc. expressly so incorporates such information by reference.
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


