FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20100308080359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 7.01                       Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On March 8, 2010, AGL Resources Inc., stated that one of its executives, Sequent Energy Management President Douglas N. Schantz, is reported missing following a business trip to New Orleans. A press release with this announcement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

AGL Resources reports missing executive
from Sequent Energy Management business
 AGL Resources (NYSE: AGL) today stated that one of its executives, Sequent Energy Management President Douglas N. Schantz, is reported missing following a business trip to New Orleans.
ATLANTA  March 8, 2010
We are deeply concerned about Doug, and personnel from AGL Resources and Sequent have been working around the clock with law enforcement agencies to determine Dougs whereabouts, said John W. Somerhalder II, chairman, president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources. Please keep Doug and his family in your thoughts and prayers until he has been brought back home safely to his family.
Peter Tumminello, executive vice president at Sequent, currently is serving as acting president of the Houston-based business.
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: AGL), an Atlanta-based energy services company, serves approximately 2.3 million customers in six states. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout North America. As an 85-percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana. For more information, visit
www.aglresources.com
.
Media Contact:
Alan Chapple
Office:  404-584-4095
Cell:     404-783-3011
achapple@aglresources.com


