FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20101020172417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
Item 1.01.          Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
The disclosure set forth under Item  2.03 below is incorporated by reference in response to this Item 1.01.
Introduction
On October 14, 2010, AGL Resources Inc., a Georgia corporation () and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Pivotal Utility Holdings, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (), successfully completed: (1) the remarketing of $160 million aggregate principal amount of four series of gas facilities and industrial development refunding revenue bonds () previously issued by state agencies or counties; (2) the implementation of new letters of credit to provide credit support to the Gas Revenue Bonds; and (3) the amendment of the loan agreements pursua nt to which the state instrumentalities had loaned the proceeds of such Gas Revenue Bond issuances to Pivotal to reflect the elimination of third-party financial guaranty insurance on the Gas Revenue Bonds.
AGL
Pivotal
Gas Revenue Bonds
Initial Issuance
The Gas Revenue Bonds consist of the following four series:
Concurrently with the initial issuance of the Gas Revenue Bonds, the issuing state instrumentalities loaned the proceeds to Pivotal or its predecessor.  Payments to the bondholders depend on Pivotals repayments under its loan agreements with the state instrumentalities.
Separate letters of credit provide credit support with respect to each issue of the Gas Revenue Bonds.  Pivotal has agreed to reimburse the banks issuing the letters of credit in the event a trustee under the indentures governing the Gas Revenue Bonds draws against a letter of credit, which could occur in the event Pivotal were to default in its loan repayment obligations.  AGL has guaranteed Pivotals reimbursement payment obligations.  The Gas Revenue Bonds were also originally covered by financial guaranty insurance, which has now been eliminated.
Remarketing
The prior letters of credit supporting the Gas Revenue Bonds expired in June and September 2010.  Pursuant to the terms of the indentures governing the Gas Revenue Bonds, Pivotal purchased the Gas Revenue Bonds prior to the expiration of the prior letters of credit.
On October 14, 2010, Pivotal entered into remarketing agreements with remarketing agents with respect to each of the four series of Gas Revenue Bonds pursuant to which the remarketing agents agreed to use their best efforts to resell the Gas Revenue Bonds to investors.  Pivotal also entered into new agreements with banks pursuant to which: (1) the banks issued new letters of credit to provide credit support to each of the series of Gas Revenue Bonds; (2) Pivotal agreed to reimburse the banks in the event of draws against such letters of credit; and (3) AGL guaranteed Pivotals reimbursement payment obligations.  
 
Also in connection with these transactions, Pivotal terminated its insurance policies related to the Gas Revenue Bonds, and entered into amendments to its loan agreements with the state instrumentalities that issued the Gas Revenue Bonds reflecting that termination.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


