FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20100427155908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
On April 26, 2010, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of AGL Resources Inc. (the Company), at its regularly scheduled meeting approved certain compensation payments to the estate of Douglas N. Schantz the former President of Sequent Energy Management, L.P. (Sequent).  Mr. Schantz passed away in early March of this year.  Pursuant to its authority under the AGL Resources Inc. 2007 Omnibus Performance Incentive Plan (the OPIP), the Compensation and Management Development Committee approved the amendment of  one restricted stock agreement and two restricted stock unit agreements, under which Mr. Schantz held certain shares of  unvested restricted stock.  The amendments, which align the treatment of these aw ards with the treatment of stock options under the OPIP, provide for immediate vesting of those shares of restricted stock that would have vested within one year of the date of Mr. Schantzs death.  Specifically, these grants cover 26,254 shares that otherwise would have vested on July 31, 2010, 1,066 shares that otherwise would have vested on February 3, 2011 and 1,267 shares that otherwise would have vested on March 1, 2011  None of these grants are subject to any additional performance requirements.  All other terms of Mr. Schantzs long-term incentive awards remain unchanged.  The Board also approved immediate payment of certain annual incentive awards, previously earned by Mr. Schantz in 2008 and 2009. Under the Companys annual incentive plan, these payments were subject to a mandatory deferral of payment.  Specifically, these are the amounts of $108,697 of annual incentive earned in 2008 (payment of which was originally deferred until February 2011) and $385,653 of annual incentive earned in 2009 (payment of which was originally deferred  until February 2012).
fifty percent until February 2011 and fifty percent
Item 5.07           Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The annual meeting of shareholders was held in Atlanta, Georgia on April 27, 2010. Holders of an aggregate of 78,393,955 shares of our common stock at the close of business on February 16, 2010, were entitled to vote at the meeting, of which 66,001,936 or 84.19% of the eligible voting shares were represented in person or by proxy. At the annual meeting, our shareholders were presented with three proposals, as set forth in our proxy statement. Our shareholders voted as follows:
Proposal 1  Election of Directors
The term of office of each of the following directors continued after the meeting: Charles R. Crisp, Arthur E. Johnson, Wyck A. Knox, Jr., Dennis M. Love, Charles H. Pete McTier, James A. Rubright, John W. Somerhalder II, Bettina M. Whyte and Henry C. Wolf.
Proposal 2  Amendment to the Companys bylaws to eliminate the classification of our board of directors, which conforms to the amendment to the Companys articles of incorporation approved by the shareholders at the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders.
Proposal 3  Ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events
On April 27, 2010, the Board of Directors also appointed Peter I. Tumminello as President of Sequent.  Mr. Tumminello was appointed acting President of Sequent on March 8, 2010.  Prior to that, Mr. Tumminello served as executive vice president of business development and support for Sequent since February 2007. He joined the executive management team of Sequent in August 2003 as vice president of asset management and origination.  Prior to joining AGL Resources and Sequent, Mr. Tumminello was vice president of energy supply for Green Mountain Energy Company, and worked for TPC Corp in various capacities in energy marketing, and storage and transportation asset management.  Mr. Tumminello succeeds Douglas N. Schantz.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
AGL Resources Names Peter Tumminello President, Sequent Energy Management
 -- Tumminello president of Sequent Energy Management, the companys Houston-based asset management organization, effective immediately. Tumminello has been serving as acting president of Sequent since March 8, 2010.
ATLANTA
April 27, 2010
The AGL Resources (NYSE: AGL) board of directors today named Peter
He will join the companys Policy Committee, the senior-most group of executives who are responsible for developing the business goals and strategies of the organization.
With this appointment of Pete, we expect Sequent to continue to grow its leadership position as a provider of asset management services to the wholesale gas industry in North America, said John W. Somerhalder II, chairman, president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources. This promotion reflects Petes valuable leadership and contributions to AGL Resources.
As president, Tumminello will lead all aspects of Sequents operations, including natural gas asset management, supply and distribution, trading and producer services. Tumminello also will play a key role in developing and implementing long-term growth plans for Sequent.
Tumminello brings more than 20 years experience in natural gas marketing and trading and more than 25 years in the energy industry to his new position. Prior to serving as acting president, Tumminello was Sequents executive vice president of business development and support. He joined the executive management team of Sequent in August 2003 as vice president of asset management and origination.
Prior to joining AGL Resources and Sequent, Tumminello was vice president of energy supply for Green Mountain Energy Company, and worked for TPC Corp and ARCO Oil and Gas Companyin various capacities in energy marketing, and storage and transportation asset management.
 
Tumminello holds a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Southwestern Louisiana and a Bachelor of Science degree in petroleum engineering from Louisiana Tech University. He frequently speaks on natural gas storage, transportation and asset management at energy industry conferences.
 
 
 
 
 
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: AGL), an Atlanta-based energy services company, serves approximately 2.3 million customers in six states. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout North America. As an 85-percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana. For more information, visit .
www.aglresources.com
 
About Sequent Energy Management
Sequent Energy Management, a wholly owned subsidiary of AGL Resources Inc. (NYSE: AGL), is a Houston-based entity focusing on asset management and optimization, producer services, wholesale marketing and risk management. For more information, visit .
www.sequentenergy.com
 
# # # #
Contacts:         Financial
Steve Cave
Vice President - Finance
Office:  404-584-3801
Cell: 404-333-4721
scave@aglresources.com
Media
Alan Chapple
Office:404-584-4095
Cell:404-783-3011
achapple@aglresources.com
 
 
 


