FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20100310083428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Item 7.01                       Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On March 10, 2010, AGL Resources Inc. reported that one of its executives, Sequent Energy Management President Douglas N. Schantz, was found deceased yesterday after apparently falling accidentally into the Mississippi River in New Orleans. A press release with this announcement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
AGL Resources mourns death of Sequent Energy Management President
 AGL Resources (NYSE: AGL) today reported that one of its executives, Sequent Energy Management President Douglas N. Schantz, was found deceased yesterday after apparently falling accidentally into the Mississippi River in New Orleans.
ATLANTA  March 10, 2010
Our hearts are heavy. said John W. Somerhalder II, chairman, president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources.
Doug was a dear friend to all who knew him and a beloved leader of Sequent employees. He will be deeply missed,
We are extremely grateful for the efforts of the state and federal agencies that assisted with the search including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Marshals Office, U.S. Coast Guard and Port of New Orleans Harbor Police, Somerhalder said.
extraordinary efforts that the New Orleans Police Department brought to bear in the search for Doug. We also are very appreciative of the
We give our heartfelt thanks to the many volunteers who also played an invaluable role in the search for Doug. Texas EquuSearch did a remarkable job in assisting us and the law enforcement agencies. Were also very grateful for the many other volunteers involved in the search including the citizens and businesses of the city of New Orleans, Louisiana Search and Rescue as well as our friends at Tulane University and Entergy. Our thanks also go out to the staff of the Royal Sonesta Hotel who provided us hospitality and a convenient headquarters from which to operate, Somerhalder said.
Peter Tumminello, executive vice president at Sequent, is serving as acting president of the Houston-based business. Tumminello
was named executive vice president of business development and support for Sequent Energy Management
in February 2007. He joined the executive management team of Sequent Energy Management in August 2003 as vice president of asset management and origination.
 
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: AGL), an Atlanta-based energy services company, serves approximately 2.3 million customers in six states. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout North America. As an 85-percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. The company also owns and operates Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, a high-deliverability natural gas storage facility near the Henry Hub in Louisiana. For more information, visit
www.aglresources.com
.
Media Contact:
Alan Chapple
Office:  404-584-4095
Cell:     404-783-3011
achapple@aglresources.com
Financial Contact:
Steve Cave
Vice President - Finance
Office:  404-584-3801
Cell:404-333-4721
scave@aglresources.com


