FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20110802161609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
On December 6, 2010, AGL Resources Inc., a Georgia corporation (AGL Resources) and Nicor Inc., an Illinois corporation (Nicor), announced that their respective boards of directors approved, and the parties entered into, an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) by and among AGL Resources, Nicor, Ottawa Acquisition LLC, an Illinois limited liability company, and Apollo Acquisition Corp., an Illinois corporation. A copy of the Merger Agreement was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC on December 7, 2010.
Pursuant to Section 5.20 of the Merger Agreement, the board of directors of the combined company shall be comprised of the twelve current directors of AGL Resources and four directors designated by Nicor, subject to the approval of AGL Resources (each, a ).  On August 2, 2011, the board of directors of AGL Resources considered and approved Nicors four Company Designees to be elected to the AGL Resources board of directors upon the close of the proposed merger.  They are Norman R Bobins, Brenda J. Gaines, Armando J. Olivera and John E. Rau.  The AGL Resources board of directors will formally elect the Company Designees to the AGL Resources board of directors by unanimous written consent prior to the closing of the proposed merger and their terms will be effective as of the Effective Time of the merger (as defined in the Merger Agreement).  At that time each of the Company Designees will be appointed to one or more committees of the AGL Resources board of directors.  Upon the effectiveness of their election to the board of directors, Messrs. Bobins, Olivera and Rau and Ms. Gaines will receive AGL Resources standard nonemployee director compensation package.
Company Designee
Mr. Bobins, age 68, is President and Chief Executive Officer, since 2008, of Norman Bobins Consulting LLC (independent consulting) and has been a director of Nicor since 2007.  Mr. Bobins has held several senior executive positions at various banking institutions, including LaSalle Bank Corporation, which was one of the largest bank holding companies in the Midwest, and where Mr. Bobins served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President.
Ms. Gaines, age 62, has been retired since 2004 and was formerly Chief Executive Officer, 2002-2004, and President, 1999-2004, of Diners Club North America, a division of Citigroup (charge/credit cards) and has been a director of Nicor since 2006.
Mr. Olivera, age 61, is President and Chief Executive Officer, since 2003, of Florida Power & Light Company (electric utility) and has been a director of Nicor since 2008.  Mr. Olivera is a 38-year veteran of the Florida Power and Light Company, a large electric utility with over $10 billion in annual revenue.
Mr. Rau, age 63, is President and Chief Executive Officer, since 2002, of Miami Corporation (private asset management), has been a director of Nicor since 1998 and Lead Director since 2006.  Mr. Rau has served as Chief Executive Officer at two major public companies and dean of Indiana Universitys Kelley School of Business.
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
AGL Resources & Nicor Agree on Board Members
Four Nicor Designees Selected to Serve on Board of Merged Companies
 
ATLANTA and NAPERVILLE, Ill., August 2, 2011  The Board of Directors of AGL Resources Inc. today approved recommendations from Nicor Inc. for four new appointees to the AGL Resources Board of Directors. Norman R Bobins, Brenda J. Gaines, Armando J. Olivera and John Rau will join the twelve existing AGL Resources representatives on the companys board when the proposed merger between the two companies is completed. The companies expect to complete the planned combination later this year, contingent upon receiving Illinois Commerce Commission approval.
 
This marks another important step in the path toward merger completion," said John W. Somerhalder II, AGL Resources' Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Norman, Brenda, Armando and John bring a wealth of experience and diverse backgrounds to the board and, as AGL Resources and Nicor join together to become the nations natural gas distribution leader, they will help make the transition as seamless as possible for our customers.
 
 
 
 
 
The planned merger will double the number of utility customers AGL Resources serves, and the increased scale and scope of the combined company is expected to create long-term benefits for customers. Approval from the Illinois Commerce Commission, the state agency that regulates Nicor and establishes rates, is pending.
 
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: AGL), an Atlanta-based energy services company, serves approximately 2.3 million customers in six states. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout North America. As an 85-percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. The company also owns and operates two high-deliverability natural gas storage facilities: Jefferson Island Storage & Hub near the Henry Hub in Louisiana and Golden Triangle Storage in Texas. For more information, visit .
www.aglresources.com
 
About Nicor Inc.
Nicor Inc. (NYSE: GAS) is a holding company and is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. Its primary business is Nicor Gas, one of the nation's largest natural gas distribution companies. Nicor owns Tropical Shipping, a containerized shipping business serving the Caribbean region and the Bahamas. In addition, the company owns and/or has an equity interest in several energy-related businesses. For more information, visit the Nicor website at .
http://www.nicor.com/
 
Forward Looking Statements
To the extent any statements made in this document contain information that is not historical, these statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (collectively, forward-looking statements).
 
These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, the expected benefits of the proposed merger such as efficiencies and cost savings; market profile and financial strength; the competitive ability and position of the combined company; our ability to obtain the necessary approvals for the transaction; and the expected timing of the completion of the transaction. . Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, continue, plan, project, will, may, should, could, would, target, potential and other similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Although certain of these statements set out herein are indicated above, all of the statements in this release that contain forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements. Although AGL Resources and Nicor believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements involve risks and uncertainties, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. Certain material factors or assumptions are applied in making forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, factors and assumptions regarding the items outlined above. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations include, among other things, the following: the failure to receive, on a timely basis or otherwise, the required approvals by AGL Resources and Nicor stockholders and government or regulatory agencies (including the terms of such approvals); the risk that a condition to closing of the merger may not be satisfied; the possibility that the anticipated benefits and synergies from the proposed merger cannot be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the possibility that costs or difficulties related to the integration of AGL Resources and Nicor operations will be greater than expected; the ability of the combined company to retain and hire key personnel and maintain relationships with customers, suppliers or other business partners; the impact of legislative, regulatory, competitive and technological changes; the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company may be different from what the companies expect; and other risk factors relating to the energy industry, as detailed from time to time in each of AGL Resources and Nicors reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). There can be no assurance that the proposed merger will in fact be consummated.
 
Additional information about these factors and about the material factors or assumptions underlying such forward-looking statements may be found in the body of this release, as well as under Item 1.A. in each of AGL Resources and Nicors Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year December 31, 2010. AGL Resources and Nicor caution that the foregoing list of important factors that may affect future results is not exhaustive. When relying on forward-looking statements to make decisions with respect to AGL Resources and Nicor, investors and others should carefully consider the foregoing factors and other uncertainties and potential events. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements concerning the proposed transaction or other matters attributable to AGL Resources and Nicor or any other person acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referenced above.  The forward-looking statements contained herein speak only as of the date of this communication. Neither AGL Resources nor Nicor undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, except as may be required by law.
 
Additional Information
In connection with the proposed merger, a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus was mailed on or about May 10, 2011 to shareholders of record of AGL Resources and Nicor as of April 18, 2011. WE URGE INVESTORS TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS CAREFULLY, AS WELL AS OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT AGL RESOURCES, NICOR AND THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about AGL Resources and Nicor, can be obtained free of charge at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from AGL Resources website (www.aglresources.com) under the tab Investor Relations/SEC Filings or by directing a request to AGL Resources Inc., P.O. Box 4569, Atlanta, GA, 30302-4569. You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Nicors website (www.nicor.com) under the tab Investor Information/SEC Filings or by directing a request to Nicor Inc., P.O. Box 3014, Naperville, IL 60566-7014.
 
The respective directors and executive officers of AGL Resources and Nicor, and other persons, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding AGL Resources directors and executive officers is available in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC by AGL Resources on March 14, 2011, and information regarding Nicor directors and executive officers is available in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC by Nicor on April 19, 2011. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Other information regarding the interests of the participants in the proxy solicitation are included in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials filed with the SEC. This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.


