FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20110614155347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07              Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The special meeting of shareholders was held in Atlanta, Georgia on June 14, 2011. Holders of an aggregate of 78,338,184 shares of our common stock at the close of business on April 18, 2011, were entitled to vote at the special meeting, of which 58,556,609 or 74.75% of the eligible voting shares were represented in person or by proxy. At the special meeting, our shareholders were presented with three proposals, as set forth in our joint proxy statement / prospectus. Our shareholders voted as follows:
Proposal 1  Approve the issuance of shares of AGL Resources Inc. common stock as contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 6, 2010, among AGL Resources Inc., Apollo Acquisition Corp., Ottawa Acquisition LLC and Nicor Inc.
Proposal 2  Approve an amendment to AGL Resources Inc.s amended and restated articles of incorporation to increase the number of directors that may serve on AGL Resources Incs board of directors from 15 to 16 directors.
Proposal 3  Adjourn the special meeting if necessary to permit further solicitation of proxies in the event there are not sufficient votes at the time of the special meeting to approve the issuance of shares and / or the amendment to AGL Resources Inc.s amended and restated articles of incorporation.
On June 14, 2011, AGL Resources issued a press release announcing the results of the special meeting of shareholders. The proposed merger is expected to close in the second half of 2011, subject to remaining approvals, including the Illinois Commerce Commission, the state agency that regulates Nicor and establishes rates. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Exhibit 99.1
 
Press release announcing AGL Resources and Nicor Shareholders approve proposed merger
 
 
Shareholders of AGL Resources (NYSE: AGL) and Nicor Inc. (NYSE: GAS) today voted to approve the proposed merger of the companies. Shareholders of AGL Resources approved the issuance of shares of AGL Resources common stock as contemplated by the merger agreement with Nicor, and in a separate meeting Nicor shareholders voted to approve the merger.
ATLANTA and NAPERVILLE, Ill., June 14, 2011 --
 
This is an exciting transaction that makes strong financial and strategic sense for both companies, said John W. Somerhalder II, AGL Resources Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, who will hold the same role in the combined company. We are creating a leading natural gas distribution company with an exceptional platform for growth. The result will be sustained value creation for our shareholders and benefits for our customers, employees and the communities we serve.
 
Today marks an important step in the path toward merger completion, said Russ M. Strobel, Nicors Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. In combining with another industry leader, Illinois will become home to the natural gas distribution headquarters of a Fortune 500 company, and AGL Resources commitment to maintain employment levels and community investments will help make the transition as seamless as possible for our customers. We will continue to work with AGL Resources to prepare for the transition upon completion of the planned merger.
 
Remaining approvals include the Illinois Commerce Commission, the state agency that regulates Nicor and establishes rates. The companies still expect to close the transaction in the second half of this year.
 
AGL Resources shareholders also approved the proposal to increase the maximum number of directors that may serve on its board of directors to 16. This action will facilitate the addition of four Nicor board members to the AGL Resources board of directors.
About AGL Resources
AGL Resources (NYSE: AGL), an Atlanta-based energy services company, serves approximately 2.3 million customers in six states. The company also owns Houston-based Sequent Energy Management, an asset manager serving natural gas wholesale customers throughout North America. As an 85-percent owner in the SouthStar partnership, AGL Resources markets natural gas to consumers in Georgia under the Georgia Natural Gas brand. The company also owns and operates two high-deliverability natural gas storage facilities: Jefferson Island Storage & Hub near the Henry Hub in Louisiana and Golden Triangle Storage in Texas. For more information, visit .
www.aglresources.com
 
About Nicor Inc.
Nicor Inc. (NYSE:GAS) is a holding company and is a member of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. Its primary business is Nicor Gas, one of the nations largest natural gas distribution companies. Nicor owns Tropical Shipping, a containerized shipping business serving the Caribbean region and the Bahamas. In addition, the company owns and/or has an equity interest in several energy-related businesses. For more information, visit the Nicor website at www.nicor.com.
Forward Looking Statements
To the extent any statements made in this document contain information that is not historical, these statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (collectively, forward-looking statements).
These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, the expected benefits of the transaction such as efficiencies, growth potential, market profile and financial strength; the competitive ability and position of the combined company; our ability to obtain the necessary approvals for the transaction; and the expected timing of the completion of the transaction. Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, continue, plan, project, will, may, should, could, would, target, potential and other similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Although certain of these statements set out herein are indicated above, all of the statements in this release that contain forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements. Although AGL Resources and Nicor believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements involve risks and uncertainties, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. Certain material factors or assumptions are applied in making forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, factors and assumptions regarding the items outlined above. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations include, among other things, the following: the failure to receive, on a timely basis or otherwise, the required approvals by AGL Resources and Nicor stockholders and government or regulatory agencies (including the terms of such approvals); the risk that a condition to closing of the merger may not be satisfied; the possibility that the anticipated benefits and synergies from the proposed merger cannot be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the possibility that costs or difficulties related to the integration of AGL Resources and Nicor operations will be greater than expected; the ability of the combined company to retain and hire key personnel and maintain relationships with customers, suppliers or other business partners; the impact of legislative, regulatory, competitive and technological changes; the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company may be different from what the companies expect; and other risk factors relating to the energy industry, as detailed from time to time in each of AGL Resources and Nicors reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). There can be no assurance that the proposed merger will in fact be consummated.
Additional information about these factors and about the material factors or assumptions underlying such forward-looking statements may be found in the body of this release, as well as under Item 1.A. in each of AGL Resources and Nicors Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year December 31, 2010. AGL Resources and Nicor caution that the foregoing list of important factors that may affect future results is not exhaustive. When relying on forward-looking statements to make decisions with respect to AGL Resources and Nicor, investors and others should carefully consider the foregoing factors and other uncertainties and potential events. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements concerning the proposed transaction or other matters attributable to AGL Resources and Nicor or any other person acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referenced above.  The forward-looking statements contained herein speak only as of the date of this communication. Neither AGL Resources nor Nicor undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, except as may be required by law.
 
Additional Information
In connection with the proposed merger, a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus was mailed on or about May 10, 2011 to shareholders of record of AGL Resources and Nicor as of April 18, 2011. WE URGE INVESTORS TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS CAREFULLY, AS WELL AS OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT AGL RESOURCES, NICOR AND THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. The definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about AGL Resources and Nicor, can be obtained free of charge at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from AGL Resources website (www.aglresources.com) under the tab Investor Relations/SEC Filings or by directing a request to AGL Resources Inc., P.O. Box 4569, Atlanta, GA, 30302-4569. You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Nicors website (www.nicor.com) under the tab Investor Information/SEC Filings or by directing a request to Nicor Inc., P.O. Box 3014, Naperville, IL 60566-7014.
 
The respective directors and executive officers of AGL Resources and Nicor, and other persons, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding AGL Resources directors and executive officers is available in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC by AGL Resources on March 14, 2011, and information regarding Nicor directors and executive officers is available in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC by Nicor on April 19, 2011. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Other information regarding the interests of the participants in the proxy solicitation are included in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials filed with the SEC. This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 


