FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20110314172700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events
On December 6, 2010, AGL Resources Inc. (AGL Resources) and Nicor Inc. (Nicor) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, a copy of which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on December 7, 2010. AGL Resources is including as Exhibit 99.1, unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements that have been derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of AGL Resources and Nicor.
 
AGL Resources notes that completion of the proposed merger is conditioned upon, among other things, shareholder approval by both companies, the SECs clearance of a registration statement registering our common stock to be issued in connection with the proposed merger, expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act and regulatory approval by the Illinois Commerce Commission.
While AGL Resources does not believe the pending merger is probable within the meaning of Rules 3-05(a)(1)(i) or 11-01(a)(2) of the SECs Regulation S-X, it is
providing these unaudited pro forma financial statements, which will be incorporated by reference into its registration statements previously filed with the SEC, because it believes this additional information may be helpful to its investors and other interested persons.
Important Merger Information and Additional Information:
In connection with the proposed merger, AGL Resources has filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-172084), as amended, which is publicly available, that includes a preliminary joint proxy statement of AGL Resources and Nicor that also constitutes a preliminary prospectus of AGL Resources. AGL Resources and Nicor will mail the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective stockholders when it becomes available.  WE URGE INVESTORS TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS CAREFULLY WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE, AS WELL AS OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT AGL RESOURCES, NICOR AND THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. The joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about AGL Resources and Nicor, can be obtained free of charge at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from AGL Resources website (www.aglresources.com) under the tab Investor Relations/SEC Filings or by directing a request to AGL Resources, P.O. Box 4569, Atlanta, GA, 30302-4569. You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Nicors website (www.nicor.com) under the tab Investor Information/SEC Filings or by directing a request to Nicor, P.O. Box 3014, Naperville, IL 60566-7014.
The respective directors and executive officers of AGL Resources and Nicor, and other persons, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding AGL Resources directors and executive officers is available in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the above referenced Registration Statement and its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC by AGL Resources on March 14, 2011, and information regarding Nicor directors and executive officers is available in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the above referenced Registration Statement and  its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC by Nicor on March 10, 2010. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Other information regarding the interests of the participants in the proxy solicitation will be included in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available. This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements (sometimes referred to as pro forma financial statements) have been derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of AGL Resources and Nicor.
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Statement of Income (sometimes referred to as pro forma statement of income) for the year ended December 31, 2010, gives effect to the merger as if it were completed on January 1, 2010. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Financial Position (sometimes referred to as pro forma balance sheet) as of December 31, 2010, gives effect to the merger as if it were completed on December 31, 2010.
 
The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the pro forma financial statements to give effect to pro forma events that are: (i) directly attributable to the merger; (ii) factually supportable; and (iii) with respect to the pro forma statement of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results of AGL Resources and Nicor. As such, the impact from merger related expenses is not included in the accompanying pro forma statement of income. However, the impact of these expenses is reflected in the pro forma balance sheet as a decrease to retained earnings.
 
The pro forma financial statements do not reflect any cost savings (or associated costs to achieve such savings) from operating efficiencies, synergies or other restructuring that could result from the merger. Further, the pro forma financial statements do not reflect the effect of any regulatory actions that may impact the pro forma financial statements when the merger is completed.
 
The acquisition of Nicor common stock by AGL Resources in the merger will be accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting and the regulations of the SEC. The purchase price will be computed using (i) Nicors outstanding shares at the date of the merger, and the market value of AGL Resources common stock anticipated to be issued in connection with the merger based on the closing price of AGL Resources common stock at the date of the merger and (ii) the cost of debt to be issued based on Nicors outstanding shares at the date of the merger and the commitment to pay cash of $21.20 per Nicor common share.
 
Assumptions and estimates underlying the pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying notes, which should be read in connection with the pro forma financial statements. Since the pro forma financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates, the final amounts recorded at the date of the merger may differ materially from the information presented. These estimates are subject to change pending further review of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
 
The pro forma financial statements have been presented for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of results of operations and financial position that would have been achieved had the pro forma events taken place on the dates indicated, or the future consolidated results of operations or financial position of the combined company.
 
The following pro forma financial statements should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.
 
 
 
The pro forma statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2010, gives effect to the merger as if it were completed on January 1, 2010. The pro forma statement of financial position as of December 31, 2010, gives effect to the merger as if it were completed on December 31, 2010.
 
The pro forma financial statements have been derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of AGL Resources and Nicor. Assumptions and estimates underlying the pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying notes, which should be read in conjunction with the pro forma financial statements. Since the pro forma financial statements have been prepared based upon preliminary estimates, the final amounts recorded at the date of the merger may differ materially from the information presented. These estimates are subject to change pending further review of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
 
The merger is reflected in the pro forma financial statements as being accounted for based on the guidance provided by Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 805 (sometimes referred to as ASC 805), . Under the acquisition method, the total estimated purchase price is calculated as described in Note 2 to the pro forma financial statements. In accordance with ASC 805, the assets acquired, and the liabilities assumed, have been measured at fair value. The fair value measurements utilize estimates based on key assumptions of the merger, including prior acquisition experience, benchmarking of similar acquisitions and historical and current market data. The pro forma adjustments included herein may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. The final purchase price allocation will be determined after the merger is completed and the final amounts recorded for the merger may differ materially from the information presented.
Business Combinations
 
Estimated transaction costs have been excluded from the pro forma statement of income as they reflect non-recurring charges directly related to the merger. However, the anticipated transaction costs are reflected in the pro forma balance sheet, as an accrual to accrued expenses and a reduction to retained earnings.
 
The pro forma financial statements do not reflect any cost savings (or associated costs to achieve such savings) from operating efficiencies, synergies or other restructuring that could result from the merger. Further, the pro forma financial statements do not reflect the effect of any regulatory actions that may impact the pro forma financial statements when the merger is completed.
Nicors regulated operations are primarily comprised of the distribution of natural gas. These operations are subject to the rate-setting authority of the Illinois Commerce Commission (sometimes referred to as the Illinois Commission) and are accounted for pursuant to ASC 980, . The pro forma financial statements have been prepared on a basis assuming that the merger will not have an impact on the determination of utility service rates for Nicors regulated operations. However, any change in the rate-setting practices of the Illinois Commission could have a material effect on Nicors financial statements. The rate-setting and cost recovery provisions currently in place for Nicors regulated operations provide revenues derived from costs including a return on investment of net assets and liabilities included in rate base. Thus, the fair values of Nicors tangible and intangible assets and liabilities subject to these rate-setting provisions approximate their carrying values, and the pro forma financial statements do not reflect any adjustments related to these amounts.
Regulated Operations
For the purpose of measuring the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as reflected in the pro forma financial statements, AGL Resources has applied ASC 820, , which defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures
 
AGL Resources will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Nicors common stock. Nicor shareholders will be entitled to receive for each share of Nicor common stock, $21.20 in cash and 0.8382 of a share of AGL Resources common stock. The purchase price for the merger is estimated as follows:
 
 
The preliminary purchase price was computed using (i) Nicors estimated shares outstanding and the market value of AGL Resources common stock anticipated to be issued in connection with the merger based on the closing price of AGL Resources common stock on March 4, 2011 and (ii) the cost of debt to be issued based on Nicors estimated shares outstanding and the commitment to pay cash of $21.20 per Nicor common share.
The preliminary purchase price will fluctuate with the market price of AGL Resources common stock until it is reflected on an actual basis when the merger is completed. An increase or decrease of 10% in AGL Resources common stock price would increase or decrease the consideration transferred by approximately $150 million, which would be reflected as an increase or decrease to the purchase price of Nicor. The increase or decrease in AGL Resources common stock price by as much as 10% is reasonably possible based upon the recent history of AGL Resources common stock price.
The pro forma adjustments included in the pro forma financial statements are as follows:
Adjustments to Pro Forma Financial Statements
(a)   Based on the amounts reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income and Statements of Financial Position of AGL Resources and Nicor,certain financial line items included in Nicors historical presentation have been reclassified to corresponding line items included in AGL Resources historical presentation. These reclassifications have no material impact on the historical operating income, net income, earnings available to parent, total assets, liabilities or shareholder equity reported by AGL Resources or Nicor.
AGL Resources and Nicor historical presentation
 
Additionally, based on AGL Resources review of Nicors summary of significant accounting policies disclosed in Nicors financial statements and preliminary discussions with Nicor management, the nature and amount of any adjustments to the historical financial statements of Nicor to conform its accounting policies to those of AGL Resources are not expected to be material. Upon completion of the merger, further review of Nicors accounting policies and financial statements may result in revisions to Nicors policies and classifications to conform to AGL Resources.
 
The allocation of the preliminary purchase price to the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed includes pro forma adjustments for the fair value Nicors assets and liabilities. The final allocation of the purchase price could differ materially from the preliminary allocation used for the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The allocation of the preliminary purchase price is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Adjustments to Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Statement of Income
(b)   Represents a decrease in operation and maintenance expense by removing the non-recurring transaction costs incurred through December 31, 2010.
Operation and maintenance
(c)   Represents the net incremental depreciation expense and incremental amortization of identified intangibles resulting from the pro forma fair value adjustment of Nicors unregulated property, plant and equipment. The estimate is preliminary, subject to change and could vary materially from the actual adjustment at the time the merger is completed.
Provision for depreciation and amortization,
net
(d)   Represents an increase in interest expense as the result of AGL Resources borrowing an additional $977 million to fund the cash payment requirement of $21.20 for each outstanding common share of Nicor. AGL Resources borrowing rate is tied to the U.S. Bond yield rate which is variable in nature. An increase or decrease of one-eighth percent to the U.S. Bond yield rate would increase or decrease AGL Resources interest expense by $1 million.
Interest expense
 
(e)   Adjustment reflects the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments, which was calculated using an estimated statutory income tax rate of 37.0%.
Income taxes
 
(f)   Reflects the elimination of Nicors common stock offset by issuance of approximately 38.6 million shares of AGL Resources common stock. This share issuance does not consider that fractional shares will be paid in cash. The pro forma weighted-average number of basic shares outstanding is calculated by adding AGL Resources weighted-average number of basic shares of common stock outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2010, to the number of AGL Resources shares expected to be issued as a result of the merger. The pro forma weighted-average number of diluted shares outstanding is calculated by adding AGL Resources weighted-average number of diluted shares of common stock outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2010, to the number of AGL Resources shares expected to be issued as a result of the merger.
Shares outstanding
 
Adjustments to Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
(g)   Represents the estimated fair value adjustment of $54 million, based on prevailing market prices at December 31, 2010, associated with AGL Resources assuming Nicors debt.
Regulatory assets
(h)   Reflects an increase to record Nicors unregulated property, plant and equipment to the estimated fair value. The estimate is preliminary, subject to change and could vary materially from the actual adjustment at the time the merger is completed.
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
(i)   Reflects the preliminary estimate of the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of Nicors assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The estimated purchase price of the transaction, based on the closing price of AGL Resources common stock on the NYSE on March 4, 2011, and the excess purchase price over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is calculated as follows (in millions):
Goodwill
 
 
(j)   Represents (i) the estimated fair value of $34 million associated with customer relationships, trade names and other intangible assets in the retail, wholesale and shipping segments of Nicor and (ii) the estimated debt issuance costs of $9 million associated with the issuance of $977 million of debt instruments by AGL Resources. The debt issuance costs will be amortized over the life of the debt.
Other assets
(k)   Reflects the accrual for estimated non-recurring transaction costs of $78 million to be incurred after December 31, 2010, partially offset by the current portion of income tax expense of $6 million.
Accrued expenses
             
(l) 
Debt
  In connection with the merger agreement, AGL Resources will assume all of Nicors outstanding debt. The pro forma adjustments represent the issuance of $977 million of debt by AGL Resources and the fair value adjustment of Nicors debt based on prevailing market prices at December 31, 2010 of $54 million.
 
(m)   Represents the estimated deferred tax liability, based on AGL Resources estimated post-merger composite statutory tax rate of 37.0% multiplied by the fair value adjustments recorded to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, excluding goodwill. This estimated tax rate is different from AGL Resources effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010, which includes other tax charges or benefits, and does not take into account any historical or possible future tax events that may impact the combined company.
Accumulated deferred income taxes
(n)   The pro forma balance sheet reflects the elimination of Nicors historical equity balance, recognition of additional 38.6 million AGL Resources common shares issued and adjustment to reduce retained earnings by $52 million (net of tax) for the remaining estimated non-recurring transaction costs. These transaction costs are shown as an adjustment to retained earnings to reflect the impact of accounting guidance applicable to business combinations, which requires that these costs be expensed. Estimated transaction costs have been excluded from the pro forma income statement as they reflect non-recurring charges directly related to the merger.
Equity


