FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20120320082935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 20, 2012, AGL Resources Inc. will host its annual Analyst Day at the New York Stock Exchange. The presentation is expected to begin at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Savings Time and will be available via a live audio webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.aglresources.com. The presentation will include the slides attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Our management evaluates segment financial performance based on earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), which includes the effects of corporate expense allocations. EBIT is a non-GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) financial measure that includes operating income, other income and expenses. Items that are not included in EBIT are financing costs, including debt and interest expense and income taxes. We evaluate each of these items on a consolidated level and believe EBIT is a useful measurement of our performance because it provides information that can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of our businesses from an operational perspective, exclusive of the costs to finance those activities and exclusive of income taxes, neither of which is directly relevant to the efficiency of those operations.
We also use EBIT internally to measure performance against budget and in reports for management and the Board of Directors. Projections of forward-looking EBIT are used in our internal budgeting process, and those projections are used in providing forward-looking business segment EBIT projections to investors. We are unable to reconcile our forward-looking EBIT business segment guidance to GAAP net income because we do not predict the future impact of unusual items and mark-to-market gains or losses on energy contracts. The impact of these items could be material to our operating results reported in accordance with GAAP.
Operating margin is a non-GAAP measure calculated as operating revenues minus cost of goods sold and revenue taxes, excluding operation and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization, and taxes other than income taxes. These items are included in our calculation of operating income. We believe operating margin is a better indicator than operating revenues of the contribution resulting from customer growth, since cost of goods sold and revenue taxes are generally passed directly through to customers.
We also present net income and earnings per share (EPS) each adjusted to exclude expenses incurred with respect to our merger with Nicor Inc. EBIT, operating margin, net income excluding merger expenses (also referred to as adjusted net income) and EPS excluding merger expenses (also referred to as adjusted EPS) should not be considered as alternatives to, or more meaningful indicators of, our operating performance than operating income, net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. or EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our EBIT, operating margin, adjusted net income and adjusted EPS may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of another company. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures referenced in this presentation are available on our website listed above and under the GAAP Reconciliations section of Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Item 7.01, as well as Exhibit 99.1 referenced herein, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 unless AGL Resources Inc. expressly so incorporates such information by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


