FILE:GAS/GAS-8K-20121101080510.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 2.02                       Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On November 1, 2012, AGL Resources Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 7.01                       Regulation FD Disclosure
 
AGL Resources Inc. will host a conference call and live internet webcast on November 1, 2012 at 9:00 a.m. ET.  A copy of the third quarter 2012 earnings presentation that will be used during the conference call and webcast is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information contained in this Item 7.01, as well as the Exhibit 99.2 referenced herein, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, unless AGL Resources Inc. expressly so incorporates such information by reference.
Item 9.01                       Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 

NEWS RELEASE
AGL Resources Reports Third Quarter 2012 Earnings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATLANTA, November 1, 2012 -- AGL Resources Inc. (NYSE: GAS) today reported third quarter 2012 net income of $9 million, or $0.08 per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss of $3 million, or $(04) per basic and diluted share, reported On a GAAP basis, the primary year-over-year driver of 2012 earnings is the addition of Nicors businesses, whose results are not reflected in 2011 comparisons.
0.
for the same period last year.
Excluding merger-related expenses of $0.01 per share in 2012 and $0.06 per share in 2011, adjusted EPS was $0.09 for the third quarter of 2012 and $0.02 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2011.
Year-to-date through September 30, 2012, net income was $173 million, or $1.48 per basic and diluted share, compared to net income of $139 million, or $1.79 per basic share and $1.78 per diluted share for the same period in 2011. Excluding merger-related expenses, adjusted EPS year-to-date through September 30, 2012 was $1.56 per diluted share compared to $1.99 per diluted share for the same period last year. Year-to-date EPS was negatively impacted by $0.13 due to warmer than normal weather experienced in 2012, as well as third quarter 2012 losses of $0.08 associated with movement in hedges of storage and transportation positions.
While market fundamentals including warmer than normal weather and increased pension expense have created a challenging operating environment for us this year, we have managed to effectively control costs across each of our business units and maintain a robust level of infrastructure investment at our regulated utilities. Our wholesale services segment has created nearly $60 million in economic value since this time last year and we expect to realize that value over the coming quarters, said John W. Somerhalder II, chairman, president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources. To date our integration efforts related to the Nicor transaction have been very successful, and we have delivered on efficiencies across the entire organization. We will continue to pursue initiatives that help to offset the fundamentals impacting many of our businesses.  
 
2012 OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
Distribution Operations
 
The distribution operations segment, which consists of our seven utilities, contributed EBIT of $80 million for the third quarter of 2012, an increase of $10 million compared to EBIT of $70 million for the same period in 2011. The increase was primarily the result of a $15 million contribution from the addition of Nicor Gas.
Year-to-date through September 30, 2012, the distribution operations segment contributed EBIT of $374 million, an increase of $89 million compared to EBIT of $285 million for the same period in 2011. The increase was primarily the result of an $86 million contribution from the addition of Nicor Gas. The previously described warmer than normal weather experienced in the first half of 2012 negatively affected EBIT in the Distribution Operations segment by $16 million.
 
Retail Operations
 
The retail operations segment, which consists of SouthStar Energy Services and several Nicor retail businesses that provide energyrelated products and services EBIT of $5 million for the third quarter of 2012, an increase of $10 million compared to an EBIT loss of $5 million for the same period in 2011. The increase was primarily a result of the addition of reduced transportation and gas costs and lower bad debt expense at SouthStar.
-
, contributed
Nicors retail businesses and increased margins resulting from
Year-to-date through September 30, 2012, the retail operations segment contributed EBIT of $79 million, an increase of $15 million compared to EBIT of $64 million for the same period in 2011. The increase year-over-year is due primarily to the addition of Nicors retail businesses, as well as increased margins from reduced transportation and gas costs and higher commercial asset optimization at SouthStar. These improvements were partially offset by a $9 million year-over-year EBIT decline resulting from the significantly warmer weather experienced during 2012 as compared to the prior-year period.
 
Wholesale Services
 
The wholesale services segment, consisting primarily of Sequent Energy Management, reported an EBIT loss of $23 million in the third quarter of 2012, compared to an EBIT loss of $37 million for the same period in 2011. Commercial activity increased $38 million compared to the third quarter of the prior year, in part driven by the absence of losses associated with pipeline constraints in the Marcellus shale region recorded in the third quarter of 2011, as well as the absence of credit losses associated with a customer that filed for bankruptcy during the third quarter of 2011. As a result of rising gas prices, Sequent recorded storage hedge losses of $15 million during the third quarter of 2012, compared to storage hedge gains of $14 million in the third quarter of 2011. Hedge gains and losses are affected primarily by changes in the price of natural gas and by changes in transportation basis spreads in the period.
Year-to-date through September 30, 2012, the wholesale services segment reported an EBIT loss of $13 million, compared to a loss of $9 million for the same period in 2011. The year-to-date results were primarily due to changes in the value of hedges of storage and transportation positions, partially offset by an increase in commercial activity.
As the price of natural gas increased during the third quarter, Sequent recorded hedge losses on its portfolio of storage assets, adding an equivalent value to the storage-related rollout value locked-in at September 30, 2012. Further, higher seasonal price differentials (summer 2012 to winter 2012  2013) during the third quarter 2012 provided additional opportunities for Sequent to improve its storage positions. Sequents storage rollout schedule as of September 30, 2012 was $65 million on 58 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of natural gas inventory. This compares to $6 million at the same point last year The rollout value is expected to be recognized as operating revenues in 2012 and 2013 when projected withdrawals occur. This withdrawal schedule can change in response to changes in market conditions, including changes in forward NYMEX natural gas prices, and this value is expected to be partially offset by lower operating revenues from Sequents forward transportation portfolio as compared to last year
.
.
 
Midstream Operations
 
The midstream operations segment, consisting primarily of our natural gas storage facilities including Jefferson Island Storage and Hub, Golden Triangle Storage and Central Valley Gas Storage, as well as Magnolia pipeline, contributed EBIT of $1 million in the third quarter of 2012, compared to $2 million for the same period in 2011.
Year-to-date through September 30, 2012, the midstream operations segment EBIT of $6 million was consistent with the same period in 2011.
Cargo Shipping
Our cargo shipping segment consists primarily of Tropical Shipping, a containerized cargo shipping company serving the Bahamas and Caribbean regions, and Seven Seas, a domestic cargo insurance company. This segment reported an EBIT loss of $1 million in the third quarter of 2012, and yeartodate through September 30, 2012
-
-
.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE AND INCOME TAXES
 
Interest expense for the third quarter of 2012 was $45 million, an increase of $14 million from the third quarter of 2011. The increase resulted from higher average debt outstanding, primarily the result of the additional long-term debt issued during 2011 in connection with the Nicor merger and the additional debt assumed following the closing of the merger transaction Interest expense year-to-date 2012 was $137 million, an increase of $45 million compared to the prior year due to the same factors that influenced the third quarter.
.
Income taxes for the third quarter of 2012 were $6 million, an $8 million increase compared to the third quarter of 2011. Year-to-date income taxes through September 30, 2012 were $106 million, $21 million higher than the same period in 2011. The increase for both periods was due to higher consolidated earnings for 2012 relative to the prior year due to the addition of Nicors businesses.
 
2012 EARNINGS OUTLOOK
 
AGL Resources provides earnings per share guidance estimates based on normal weather, among other assumptions. The historically warm weather experienced during the first half of 2012 and hedge gains and losses through the first nine months of 2012 have been factored into our guidance range, which we have revised to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.75 per diluted share. However, fourth quarter 2012 weather and changes in the value of our storage and transportation portfolios could impact this guidance range.
Unanticipated changes in these events or other circumstances could materially impact earnings, and could result in earnings for 2012 significantly above or below this outlook.
Factors that could cause such changes are described below in Forward-Looking Statements and in other company documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL/WEBCAST
 
AGL Resources will hold a conference call to discuss its third quarter 2012 results on November 1 at 9 a.m. Eastern Daylight Savings Time. The conference call will be webcast, and can be accessed via the Investor Relations section of the company's Web site (www.aglresources.com), or by dialing 866.383.8009 617.597.5342 87750312).  A replay of the conference call will be available by dialing 888.286.8010 in the United States or 617.801.6888 outside the U.S. (Passcode: 54228177). A replay of the call also will be available on the Investor Relations section of the company's Web site for seven days following the call.
if calling from the U.S., or
if dialing from outside the U.S. (Passcode:
 
About AGL Resources
 
AGL Resources (NYSE: GAS) is an Atlanta-based energy services holding company with operations in natural gas distribution, retail operations, wholesale services, midstream operations and cargo shipping. As the nation's largest natural gas-only distributor based on customer count, AGL Resources serves approximately 4.5 million utility customers through its regulated distribution subsidiaries in seven states. The company also serves more than one million retail customers through its SouthStar Energy Services joint venture and Nicor National, which market natural gas and related home services. Other non-utility businesses include asset management for natural gas wholesale customers through Sequent Energy Management, ownership and operation of natural gas storage facilities, and ownership of Tropical Shipping, one of the largest containerized cargo carriers serving the Bahamas and Caribbean regions. AGL Resources is a member of the S&P 500 Index. For more information, visit .
www.aglresources.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this press release, in other reports or statements we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public, and on our website, are forward-looking statements. Senior officers and other employees may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, regulators, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts, such as statements regarding our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. Because these statements involve anticipated events or conditions, forward-looking statements often include words such as "anticipate," "assume," "believe," "can," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "future," "goal," "indicate," "intend," "may," "outlook," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "seek," "should," "target," "would," or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements contained in this press release include, without limitation, the quote from John W. Somerhalder II, when we expect to realize the economic value created by our storage-related business, our projected storage withdrawal schedule and our 2012 earnings outlook and related expectations and assumptions.
 
Such events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in price, supply and demand for natural gas and related products; the impact of changes in state and federal legislation and regulation including changes related to climate change; actions taken by government agencies on rates and other matters; concentration of credit risk; utility and energy industry consolidation; the impact on cost and timeliness of construction projects by government and other approvals, development project delays, adequacy of supply of diversified vendors, unexpected change in project costs, including the cost of funds to finance these projects; the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, including the Nicor merger; the limits on natural gas pipeline capacity; direct or indirect effects on our business, financial condition or liquidity resulting from a change in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our counterparties or competitors; interest rate fluctuations; financial market conditions, including disruptions in the capital markets and lending environment and the current economic uncertainty; general economic conditions; uncertainties about environmental issues and the related impact of such issues; the impact of changes in weather, including climate change, on the temperature-sensitive portions of our business; the impact of natural disasters such as hurricanes on the supply and price of natural gas; the outcome of litigation; acts of war or terrorism; and other factors which are provided in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we incorporate by reference in this press release. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements to reflect subsequent changes.
 
Supplemental Information
 
Company management evaluates segment financial performance based on operating margin and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), which include the effects of corporate expense allocations. EBIT is a non-GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) financial measure that includes operating income and other income and expenses. Items that are not included in EBIT are income taxes and financing costs, including debt and interest expense, each of which the company evaluates on a consolidated basis.  The company believes EBIT is a useful measurement of its performance because it provides information that can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of its businesses from an operational perspective, exclusive of the costs to finance those activities and exclusive of income taxes, neither of which is directly relevant to the efficiency of those operations.
 
Operating margin is a non-GAAP measure calculated as operating revenues minus cost of goods sold and revenue taxes, excluding operation and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization, certain taxes other than income taxes, Nicor merger expenses and gains or losses on the sale of assets, if any. These items are included in the company's calculation of operating income. The company believes operating margin is a better indicator than operating revenues of the contribution resulting from customer growth, since cost of gas and revenue taxes are generally passed directly through to customers.
 
In addition, in this press release AGL Resources has presented a non-GAAP measure of adjusted earnings per share (EPS), which excludes expenses incurred with respect to the Nicor merger.  As the company does not routinely engage in transactions of the magnitude of the Nicor merger, and consequently does not regularly incur transaction and integration-related expenses of correlative size, the company believes presenting EPS excluding Nicor merger-related expenses provides investors with an additional measure of AGL Resources core operating performance. AGL Resources also expects to record certain merger-related expenses in 2012 and will exclude nonrecurring integrationrelated expenses from its 2012 adjusted results.  Examples of such expenses related to the merger and integration are: employee severance, relocation, consulting services, temporary labor and certain travel costs. We also discuss the impact to diluted EPS due to warmer-than-normal weather in the nine months ended September 30, 2012.
 
EBIT, operating margin and adjusted EPS should not be considered as alternatives to, or more meaningful indicators of, the company's operating performance than operating income, net income attributable to AGL Resources Inc. or EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company's EBIT, operating margin and adjusted EPS may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of another company.
 
Reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures referenced in this press release and otherwise in the earnings conference call and webcast is attached to this press release and is available on the company's Web site at under the Investor Relations section.
http://www.aglresources.com/
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


