Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Ball Corporation and subsidiaries are referred to collectively as Ball, the company, we and our in the following discussion and analysis. Managements discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Ball Corporation is one of the worlds leading suppliers of metal and plastic packaging to the beverage and food industries. Our packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are currently manufactured in 48 plants around the world. We also supply aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers. We sell our packaging products primarily to major beverage and food producers with which we have developed long term customer relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and our large number of long term supply contracts. While we have diversified our customer base, we do sell a majority of our packaging products to relatively few major beverage and food companies in North America, Europe and the Peoples Republic of China (PRC), as does our equity joint venture in Brazil. We also purchase raw materials from relatively few suppliers. Because of our customer and supplier concentration, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the loss of a major customer or supplier or a change in a supply agreement with a major supplier or customer, although our long term relationships and contracts mitigate these risks. In the rigid packaging industry in the U.S. and Canada, sales and earnings can be improved by reducing costs, developing new products, volume expansion and increasing pricing where possible. While the U.S. and Canadian beverage container manufacturing industry is relatively mature, the European, PRC and Brazilian beverage can markets are growing (excluding the effects of the German mandatory deposit discussed in International Packaging) and are expected to continue to grow. We are capitalizing on this growth by reconfiguring some of our European can manufacturing lines, building a beverage can manufacturing plant near Belgrade, Serbia, and expanding our manufacturing capacity in both the PRC and Brazil. The Belgrade plant is scheduled to be operational by the second quarter of 2005. With our acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe in December 2002, Balls consolidated earnings are more exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We attempt to mitigate this exposure through the use of derivative financial instruments, as discussed in the Financial Instruments and Risk Management section. As part of our packaging strategy, we are focused on developing and marketing new and existing products that meet the ever expanding needs of our beverage and food customers. These innovations include new shapes, sizes, opening features and other functional benefits of both metal and plastic packaging. This packaging development activity helps us maintain and expand our supply positions with major beverage and food customers. The primary customers for the products and services provided by our aerospace and technologies segment are U.S. government agencies or their prime contractors. It is possible that congressional budget reductions or changes in agency budgets could limit future funding and new contract awards. We recognize sales under long term contracts in the aerospace and technologies segment using the cost to cost, percentage of completion method of accounting. Our present contract mix consists of approximately 60 percent cost plus contracts, which are billed at our costs plus an agreed upon profit component, and approximately 40 percent fixed price contracts. We include time and material contracts in the fixed price category because such contracts typically provide for the sale of engineering labor at fixed hourly rates. Throughout the period of contract performance, we regularly reevaluate and, if necessary, revise our estimates of total contract revenue, total contract cost and progress toward completion. Because of contract payment schedules, limitations on funding and other contract terms, our sales and accounts receivable for this business include amounts that have been earned but not yet billed. Management uses various measures to evaluate company performance. The primary financial measures we use are earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), diluted earnings per share, economic value added, operating cash flow and free cash flow (generally defined by the company as cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures). Nonfinancial measures in the packaging segments include production spoilage rates, quality control measures and production and shipment volumes. Additional measures used to evaluate performance in the aerospace and technologies segment include contract revenue realization, award and incentive fees realized, proposal win rates and backlog (including awarded, contracted and funded backlog). We recognize that attracting and retaining quality employees is critically important to the success of Ball and, because of this, we work to pay employees competitively and encourage their prudent ownership of the companys common stock. For most management employees, a meaningful portion of compensation is at risk as an incentive, dependent upon economic value added operating performance. For more senior positions, more compensation is at risk. Through our employee stock purchase plan and 401(k) plan, which matches employee contributions with Ball common stock, many employees, regardless of organizational level, have opportunities to participate as Ball shareholders. During 2004 we expanded our employee stock purchase program to some of our Ball Packaging Europe employees. In recognition of the companys performance, the companys Board of Directors declared a two for one stock split and increased the quarterly dividend. The distribution date for the stock split was August 23, 2004, for shareholders of record on August 4, 2004. As a result of the stock split, all amounts related to earnings per share and share prices have been retroactively restated as if the split had occurred as of January 1, 2002. Balls board also authorized the repurchase of up to 12 million of the companys post split shares. This authorization replaced all previous authorizations. On January 31, 2005, the company repurchased 3 million shares, thereby reducing the maximum number of shares that may yet be repurchased by that amount. CONSOLIDATED SALES AND EARNINGS Balls operations are organized along its product lines and include three segments North American packaging, international packaging and aerospace and technologies. We also have investments in companies in the U.S., the PRC and Brazil, which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and accordingly, those results are not included in segment sales or earnings. North American Packaging North American packaging consists of operations located in the U.S. and Canada, which manufacture metal container products, used primarily in beverage and food packaging, and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) plastic container products, used principally in beverage packaging. This segment accounted for 65 percent of consolidated net sales in 2004. Metal Beverage Container Sales North American metal beverage container sales comprised 67 percent of segment sales in 2004 (69 percent in 2003) and were 3 percent higher than in 2003. Contributing to the increase were the pass through of aluminum price increases and higher volumes in our specialty can products, partially offset by declines in standard 12 ounce cans. Sales in the first quarter of 2004 were also improved over 2003 due to the acquisition of Metal Packaging International, Inc. (MPI) in March 2003 (discussed below). North American metal beverage container sales were slightly higher in 2003 than in 2002 as higher can end volumes resulting from the acquisition of MPI were partially offset by lower can and end volumes in several regions of the country due to poor weather conditions. Based on publicly available information, we estimate that our shipments of metal beverage containers were approximately 31 percent of total U.S. and Canadian shipments in 2004. In October 2004 we announced plans to convert a beverage can manufacturing line in our Golden, Colorado, plant from the production of 12 ounce beverage cans to 24 ounce beverage cans. The Golden line conversion, which is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2005, will enable Ball to more efficiently match its capacity with the growing demand for custom cans. On March 11, 2003, we acquired MPI, a manufacturer of aluminum beverage can ends, for $28 million. MPI produced just over 2 billion ends for metal beverage containers per year, primarily for soft drink companies, and had sales of approximately $42 million in 2002. Metal Food Container Sales Metal food container sales in 2004 comprised 22 percent of segment sales (20 percent in 2003) and were 20 percent higher than 2003 sales. Sales were higher due to the acquisition of Ball Western Can Company, LLC (Ball Western Can) in March 2004 (discussed below), higher selling prices as a result of the pass through of raw material costs and some pre buying by customers in the fourth quarter ahead of expected steel price increases. Negotiations with respect to 2005 sales contracts are ongoing. We believe these negotiations will result in the pass through of the majority of the 2005 steel price increases. We estimate our 2004 shipments of approximately 7 billion cans to be approximately 21 percent of total U.S. and Canadian metal food container shipments, based on publicly available trade information. Metal food container sales in 2003 were 3 percent higher than in 2002. Sales were higher in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily as a result of a multi year contract with Ross Products, a division of Abbott Laboratories. On March 17, 2004, we acquired ConAgra Grocery Products Companys (ConAgra) interest in Ball Western Can for $30 million. Ball Western Can, located in Oakdale, California, was established in 2000 as a 50/50 joint venture between Ball and ConAgra and, prior to the acquisition, was accounted for by Ball using the equity method of accounting. Ball and ConAgras parent company, ConAgra Foods Inc., signed a long term agreement under which Ball will provide metal food containers to ConAgra food packing locations in California. The acquisition of Ball Western Can added approximately one billion units of annual capacity. Plastic Container Sales Plastic container sales in 2004 comprised 11 percent of segment sales (11 percent in 2003) and increased 7 percent compared to 2003. The increase was primarily related to several new preform sales contracts secured during the year and the price pass through of raw material price increases. Preform sales, which represent approximately 8 percent of the business, increased by 56 percent and bottle sales increased by 4 percent over 2003 levels. Carbonated soft drink and water sales volumes were lower than expected primarily due to reduced demand on the East Coast resulting from competitive pressures and a delay in the commencement of a new customer supply opportunity on the West Coast. Although only a small percentage of our total volume, juice and beer container sales increased in 2004 and are expected to grow considerably in the future as more focus is given to these specialty markets and the development of our Heat Tek(TM) business. We estimate our 2004 shipments of 5 billion bottles to be approximately 8 percent of total U.S. and Canadian plastic container shipments. Plastic container sales in 2003 increased 6 percent compared to 2002. Four plastic bottle blow molding production lines were installed during the latter part of 2002 which increased 2003 sales volumes compared to 2002. Competitive pricing pressure and cold and wet weather conditions on the East Coast and in the Midwest contributed to lower than expected 2003 sales. In response to the lower sales, we reduced production at certain plants, and reduced the work force and idled some of the equipment at our Watertown, Wisconsin, plant. North American Packaging Segment Earnings Segment earnings in 2004 were 18 percent higher than in 2003. The improvement in earnings was the result of higher sales and production volumes, improved product mix, cost reduction programs and strong fourth quarter food can sales. In addition, 2003 earnings were negatively impacted by approximately $11 million of start up costs associated with a new two piece food can manufacturing line in Milwaukee. Partially offsetting these 2004 earnings improvements were continued pricing pressures on commodity plastic containers for soft drink customers and an increase in cost of sales due to rising raw material costs under the LIFO (last in first out) method of accounting. Segment earnings were slightly lower in 2003 than in 2002. In addition to the Milwaukee start up costs, 2003 earnings were negatively affected by competitive pricing pressures on food cans and plastic containers. These issues were partially offset by cost improvements achieved through operating efficiencies, lower spoilage and stringent cost management, particularly in our metal beverage container plants. Segment earnings results over the past three years include various business consolidation activities, which were undertaken to improve our operations. All of these restructuring activities were completed by the end of 2004. Segment earnings included business consolidation gains of $1.1 million and $0.2 million for 2004 and 2003, respectively, and a loss of $2.3 million in 2002. In addition to the business consolidation gains, relocation costs of $2 million and $2.7 million were incurred in 2004 and 2003, respectively, for the relocation of the plastics offices and research and development facility from Atlanta, Georgia, to Colorado. The office relocation was completed during 2003 and the R&D facility relocation was completed in 2004. Concerning the business consolidation activities, earnings of $0.4 million were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004, as costs to complete the closure of a metal food container plant were less than expected. Also in the third quarter, $0.7 million of earnings were recorded to reflect lower than expected costs incurred on the shut down and relocation of the Atlanta plastics offices and research and development facility. In the fourth quarter of 2003, a gain of $1.6 million was recorded in connection with the sale of a metal beverage container facility that was shut down in December 2001. In the first quarter of 2003, a net charge of $1.4 million was booked to record the closure of a metal food container plant and a gain from a previous plant closure. In the fourth quarter of 2002, a net charge of $2.3 million was recorded in connection with the closure of the Atlanta plastics facilities and the completion of several plant closures commenced prior to 2002. International Packaging International packaging includes the production and sale of metal beverage container products manufactured in Europe and Asia as well as plastic containers manufactured and sold in Asia. This segment accounted for 23 percent of consolidated net sales in 2004. Europe Ball Packaging Europe, which represents approximately 30 percent of the total European metal beverage container manufacturing capacity, has manufacturing plants located in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands and Poland. European sales were 10 percent higher in 2004 than in 2003 as a result of a stronger euro, higher selling prices and successful export programs from German plants to other European countries. In the first quarter of 2003, one German can manufacturing line was idled and, in the first quarter of 2004, another German can manufacturing line was converted from steel to aluminum cans. Another steel can manufacturing line in the Netherlands is being converted to aluminum partially in response to increased demand for custom cans in Europe. This conversion is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2005. European sales of $1 billion in 2003 benefited from a strong euro, but were negatively affected by the January 1, 2003, imposition of a mandatory deposit on one way metal, PET and glass beverage containers (for beer, carbonated soft drinks and water) in Germany, where four of Ball Packaging Europes plants are located. While sales volumes to German customers from our European plants were down approximately 2.2 billion cans in 2003 from prior year levels, warm weather conditions in much of Europe and the continued growth in beverage can usage in eastern and southern Europe have helped to increase volumes in other countries. Sales in 2002 were not comparable to 2003 because Ball acquired Ball Packaging Europe on December 19, 2002. Construction on a new beverage can plant near Belgrade, Serbia, commenced during the second quarter of 2004 to serve the growing demand for beverage cans in southern and eastern Europe. We currently expect the new plant to be operational in the second quarter of 2005. PRC Sales in the PRC in 2004 increased 18 percent over 2003 levels, which were flat compared to 2002. Earnings before taxes were significantly improved over the prior year due largely to cost reduction initiatives resulting from business consolidation actions taken in 2001. During the fourth quarter of 2004, Sanshui Jianlibao FTB Packaging Limited (Sanshui JFP), a 35 percent owned PRC joint venture, experienced a greater than customary seasonal production slowdown caused by cash flow difficulties. The cash flow difficulties were due to a build up of receivables from our joint venture partners business, which is Sanshui JFPs major customer. After discussions with representatives of the local Chinese government, which has taken control of our joint venture partners business, we recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts in respect of Sanshui JFPs receivable from the joint venture partner. Our share of the bad debt provision amounted to $15.2 million and is included in the consolidated statement of earnings as equity in results of affiliates. International Packaging Segment Earnings International packaging segment earnings improved in 2004 and 2003 due to a stronger euro and higher profit margins in both Europe and the PRC due in large part to operational cost reduction programs. The stronger euro improved our net earnings per diluted share by $0.08 in 2004 compared to 2003. Segment earnings in 2004 were also improved over 2003 by the nonrecurrence of purchase accounting adjustments which increased Ball Packaging Europes cost of sales in 2003. In June 2001 we announced a plan to exit the general line metal can business in the PRC and reduce our PRC beverage can manufacturing capacity by closing two plants. A $237.7 million pretax charge ($185 million after tax and minority interest impact) was recorded in connection with this reorganization. We recorded $13.7 million of earnings during 2004, $3.3 million in 2003 and $5.1 million in 2002 as restructuring activities were completed, resulting in realization on assets in excess of amounts previously estimated, as well as costs incurred being less than estimated. Other than tax clearances from the applicable authorities as the closed facilities are formally liquidated, the costs and transactions related to the PRC were concluded by the end of 2004. Aerospace and Technologies Aerospace and technologies segment sales represented 12 percent of 2004 consolidated net sales (11 percent in 2003) and were 22 percent higher than in 2003. Higher sales in 2004 resulted from newly awarded contracts and additions to previously awarded contracts. The aerospace and technologies business won a number of large, strategic contracts and delivered a great deal of sophisticated space and defense instrumentation throughout the period. Net earnings decreased in 2004 by 2 percent compared to 2003 largely due to increased pension costs and higher costs incurred on certain cost plus contracts without corresponding additional fees as these contracts reach completion. In addition, 2003 margins included approximately $8 million due to successfully achieving milestones in two key programs. Sales and operating margins in 2003 increased compared to 2002 as a result of strong operating performance and the program milestones and completions mentioned above. Some of the segments high profile contracts include: the Deep Impact mission, which was launched in January 2005 to intercept and study a comet; WorldView, an advanced commercial remote sensing satellite; the James Webb Space Telescope, a successor to the Hubble Space Telescope; the Space Based Space Surveillance System, which will detect and track space objects such as satellites and orbital debris; NPOESS, the next generation satellite weather monitoring system; and a number of antennas for the Joint Strike Fighter. Earnings were recorded of $0.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2004, $0.2 million in the third quarter of 2003 and $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 for exit costs that were no longer required due to the sale of a product line whose operations ceased in 2001. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we also recorded a $2.5 million after tax charge to write off an equity investment in an aerospace company. Sales to the U.S. government, either directly as a prime contractor or indirectly as a subcontractor, represented approximately 82 percent of segment sales in 2004 and 96 percent of segment sales in both 2003 and 2002. The percentage representing U.S. government sales decreased in 2004 due to growing revenues related to the WorldView contract. Contracted backlog for the aerospace and technologies segment at December 31, 2004 and 2003, was $694 million and $644 million, respectively. Year to year comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of the trend of future operations. For additional information regarding the companys segments, see the summary of business segment information in Note 2 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. The charges recorded for business consolidation activities were based on estimates by Ball management, actuaries and other independent parties and were developed from information available at the time. If actual outcomes vary from the estimates, the differences will be reflected in current period earnings in the consolidated statement of earnings and identified as business consolidation gains and losses. Additional details about our business consolidation activities and associated costs are provided in Note 4 accompanying the consolidated financial statements. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses were $267.9 million, $234.2 million and $170.6 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in 2004 compared to 2003 was due to higher costs related to the companys deposit share program, higher pension and incentive costs, costs associated with Sarbanes Oxley compliance in 2004, higher research and development costs, the effects of foreign exchange rates and growth in our aerospace and technologies segment. In 2004 we reduced our U.S. pension plan discount rate from 6.75 percent to 6.25 percent, resulting in approximately $8.3 million higher U.S. pension expense for the year compared to 2003, most of which was included in cost of sales. Approximately $48.1 million of the increase in 2003 compared to 2002 is related to the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe in December 2002. The additional increase in 2003 was primarily the result of higher employee costs, incentives and higher pension expense, partially offset by lower expenses in the PRC. In 2003 we reduced our U.S. pension plan long term asset return assumption from 9 percent to 8.5 percent and our discount rate from 7.5 percent to 6.75 percent. The changes in the return on pension asset and discount rate assumptions, as well as actual asset performance, increased North American pension expense for the year by approximately $14.8 million as compared to 2002. Most of this increase was included in cost of sales. For the U.S. pension plans, we intend to maintain our current return on asset assumption at 8.5 percent for 2005 while further reducing the discount rate assumption to 6 percent. Based on these assumptions, U.S. pension expense for 2005 is anticipated to increase approximately $5.4 million compared to 2004, most of which will be included in cost of sales. Pension expense in Europe and Canada combined is expected to be comparable to 2004 expense. A further reduction of the plan asset return assumption by one quarter of a percentage point would result in additional expense of approximately $1.8 million. A quarter of a percentage point reduction in the discount rate would result in approximately $3.3 million of additional expense. Additional information regarding the companys pension plans is provided in Note 13 accompanying the consolidated financial statements. Interest and Taxes Consolidated interest expense before debt refinancing costs was $103.7 million in 2004, $125.9 million in 2003 and $75.6 million in 2002. The lower expense in 2004 compared to 2003 was due to lower average borrowings and changes in interest rates. The higher expense in 2003 compared to 2002 was associated with the higher level of borrowings subsequent to the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe. Debt refinancing costs in 2003 included $15.2 million of costs associated with the early redemption of the companys 8.25% senior subordinated notes in August 2003. Debt refinancing costs in 2002 included $5.2 million related to the refinancing of the companys debt in connection with the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe. Balls consolidated effective income tax rate for 2004 was 32 percent compared to 31.3 percent in 2003 and 35.6 percent in 2002. The overall 2004 effective rate was slightly higher, primarily due to higher North American earnings than in 2003, but continues to reflect a low consolidated European income tax rate due to lower profits in Germany, reflecting the impact of the refundable mandatory deposit on non refillable containers imposed on January 1, 2003, and a tax holiday in Poland. Germany has the highest tax rate of the European countries in which Ball has operations. We are currently reviewing the impact of making a 2005 foreign earnings distribution to the U.S. via intercompany dividend distributions in accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. If such a dividend distribution were to occur, we estimate the reasonably possible range of distributions to be $300 million to $500 million, with the related potential impact on income tax expense being $7 million to $12 million. See Note 12 in Item 8 for more details on other pending tax matters. Results of Equity Affiliates Equity in the earnings of affiliates is attributable to our 50 percent ownership in packaging investments in North America and Brazil, a minority owned aerospace business and our minority owned packaging investments in the PRC and, prior to 2003, in Thailand. Earnings in 2004 included a $15.2 million loss which represented Balls share of a provision for doubtful accounts related to its 35 percent owned interest in Sanshui JFP (discussed above in International Packaging). Excluding the PRC loss, earnings were $15.8 million in 2004 compared to $11.3 million in 2003 and $9.3 million in 2002. The higher earnings in 2004 included improved results in our joint ventures in Brazil and North America. The higher earnings in 2003 compared to 2002 were the result of improved earnings in our joint venture in Brazil, offset by lower earnings in our North American packaging joint ventures and our investment in Thailand no longer being accounted for under the equity method. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For information regarding recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows and Capital Expenditures Cash flows from operating activities were $535.9 million in 2004 compared to $364 million in 2003 and $452.3 million in 2002. The lower amount generated in 2003 included $138.3 million for the payment in January 2003 of an accrued withholding tax obligation related to the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe (further discussed below) which was funded by the seller at the time of closing by the inclusion of 131 million of additional cash. Management internally uses a free cash flow measure: (1) to evaluate the companys operating results, (2) for planning purposes, (3) to evaluate strategic investments and (4) to evaluate the companys ability to incur and service debt. Free cash flow is not a defined term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and it should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as cash flow from operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment (capital spending). Free cash flow is typically derived directly from the companys cash flow statements; however, it may be adjusted for items that affect comparability between periods. An example of such an item excluded in 2003 is the $138.3 million withholding tax payment liability assumed in the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe in December 2002 (discussed above). We believe this is not a comparable free cash flow outflow of the company as it was funded by the seller. Based on this, our consolidated free cash flow is summarized as follows: ($ in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Cash flows from operating activities $ 535.9 $ 364.0 $ 452.3 Add back withholding tax payment related to the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe 138.3 Capital spending (196.0 ) (137.2 ) (158.4 ) Free cash flow $ 339.9 $ 365.1 $ 293.9 Cash flows from operating activities in 2004 reflected higher earnings and higher accounts payable, offset by higher accounts receivable and inventories. Inventories and accounts payable were higher due to increased purchases of raw materials and accounts receivable were higher partially as a result of strong December food can sales. Cash flow in 2003 included higher earnings, lower accounts receivable and lower inventories than in 2002 but was offset by lower accounts payable. Based on information currently available, we estimate cash flows from operating activities for 2005 to be $500 million or more, capital spending to be approximately $300 million and free cash flow to exceed $200 million. Capital spending of $196 million in 2004 was below depreciation and amortization expense of $215.1 million. In 2005 we plan to invest capital in our highest performing operations, including projects to increase custom can capabilities, convert lines from steel to aluminum in Europe and the completion of a new beverage can manufacturing plant in Belgrade, Serbia, as well as expenditures in the aerospace and technologies segment. Debt Facilities and Refinancing Interest bearing debt at December 31, 2004, decreased $26.2 million to $1,660.7 million from $1,686.9 million at year end 2003. The reduction in interest bearing debt includes the net repayment of approximately $78 million of debt, partially offset by the non cash translation exchange effect on the balance sheet of having foreign debt denominated in the stronger euro and British pound. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2004, were $198.7 million compared to $36.5 million at December 31, 2003. We intend to use much of the 2004 ending cash balance to repurchase shares of our stock. At December 31, 2004, approximately $407 million was available under the revolving credit facility portions of the multi currency senior credit facilities. The company also had $234 million of short term uncommitted credit facilities available at the end of the year, of which $43.7 million was outstanding. During the first quarter of 2004, Ball repaid 31 million ($38 million) of the euro denominated Term Loan B and reduced the interest rate by 50 basis points. During the fourth quarter of 2003, Ball repaid $160 million of the U.S. dollar denominated Term Loan B and 25 million of the euro denominated Term Loan B. At the time of the early repayment, the interest rate on the U.S. portion of the Term Loan B was reduced by 50 basis points. Interest expense during the first quarter of 2004 and the fourth quarter of 2003 included $0.5 million and $2.9 million, respectively, for the write off of the unamortized financing costs associated with the repaid loans. On August 8, 2003, Ball refinanced 8.25% Senior Subordinated Notes due in 2008 through the private placement of $250 million of 6.875% Senior Notes due in 2012 issued at a price of 102% (effective yield to maturity of 6.58 percent). In connection with the refinancing of the higher interest debt, in the third quarter of 2003 a pretax charge of $15.2 million was recorded as interest expense, which consisted of the payment of a $10.3 million call premium and the write off of $4.9 million of unamortized financing costs. In connection with the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe, we refinanced $389 million of our existing debt and, as a result, recorded in 2002 a pretax charge of $5.2 million for the write off of unamortized financing costs. The company has a receivables sales agreement which provides for the ongoing, revolving sale of a designated pool of trade accounts receivable of Balls North American packaging operations, up to $200 million as of December 31, 2004 ($175 million as of December 31, 2003). The agreement qualifies as off balance sheet financing under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140. Net funds received from the sale of the accounts receivable totaled $174.7 million and $175 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and are reflected as a reduction of accounts receivable in the consolidated balance sheets. The company was not in default of any loan agreement at December 31, 2004, and has met all payment obligations. The U.S. note agreements, bank credit agreement and industrial development revenue bond agreements contain certain restrictions relating to dividends, investments, financial ratios, guarantees and the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Additional details about the companys receivables sales agreement and debt are available in Notes 5 and 11, respectively, accompanying the consolidated financial statements. Other Liquidity Items Cash payments required for debt maturities, rental payments under noncancellable operating leases and purchasing obligations in effect at December 31, 2004, are summarized in the following table: Payments Due By Period ($ in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years Long term debt $ 1,603.4 $ 77.8 $ 460.2 $ 506.2 $ 559.2 Capital lease obligations 9.3 1.5 3.1 1.0 3.7 Operating leases 167.0 43.4 57.1 27.5 39.0 Purchase obligations (a) 4,717.4 2,070.0 2,596.5 42.3 8.6 Total payments on contractual obligations $ 6,497.1 $ 2,192.7 $ 3,116.9 $ 577.0 $ 610.5 (a) The companys purchase obligations include contracted amounts for aluminum, steel, plastic resin and other direct materials. Also included are commitments for purchases of natural gas and electricity, aerospace and technologies contracts and other less significant items. In cases where variable prices and or usage are involved, managements best estimates have been used. Depending on the circumstances, early termination of the contracts may not result in penalties and, therefore, actual payments could vary significantly. Contributions to the companys defined benefit pension plans, not including the unfunded German plans, are expected to be approximately $17 million in 2005. This estimate may change based on plan asset performance. Benefit payments related to these plans are expected to be $43 million, $44 million, $47 million, $49 million and $51 million for the years ending December 31, 2005 through 2009, respectively, and $301 million thereafter. Payments to participants in the unfunded German plans are expected to be approximately $24 million in 2005, $25 million in each of the years 2006 through 2009 and a total of $123 million thereafter. We have increased our share repurchase program in 2005 to between $150 million and $175 million, net of issuances, compared to $50 million net in 2004. On January 31, 2005, Ball repurchased 3 million of its common shares at an initial price of $42.72 per share using cash on hand and available borrowings. The price per share is subject to a price adjustment based on a weighted average price calculation for the period between the initial purchase date and the settlement date of July 6, 2005. Annual cash dividends paid on common stock were 35 cents per share in 2004, 24 cents per share in 2003 and 18 cents per share in 2002. Ball increased its dividends for the third and fourth quarter of 2004 from seven and a half to 10 cents per share, resulting in dividend payments which were $12.1 million higher in 2004 than in 2003. The company also increased its dividends for the third and fourth quarters of 2003 from four and a half to seven and a half cents per share. This change resulted in dividend payments which were $6.4 million higher in 2003 than in 2002. Contingencies The company is subject to various risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business due, in part, to the competitive nature of the industries in which we participate, our operations in developing markets outside the U.S., changing commodity prices for the materials used in the manufacture of our products and changing capital markets. Where practicable, we attempt to reduce these risks and uncertainties through the establishment of risk management policies and procedures, including, at times, the use of derivative financial instruments as explained in Item 7A of this report. From time to time, the company is subject to routine litigation incident to its business. Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has designated Ball as a potentially responsible party, along with numerous other companies, for the cleanup of several hazardous waste sites. Our information at this time does not indicate that these matters will have a material adverse effect upon the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the company. Due to political and legal uncertainties in Germany, no nationwide system for returning containers was in place at the time a mandatory deposit was imposed in January 2003 and most retailers stopped carrying beverages in non refillable containers. On October 15, 2004, the German parliament adopted a proposal leaving the existing deposit of 25 eurocents per container in effect. This decision, however, was ruled not in compliance with the European Union (EU) law, and therefore does not provide a stable legal situation to which the industry can adapt. The outcome of the legal proceedings of the EU Commission is unclear and the political discussions about the deposit continue. We have responded by reducing beverage can production at our German plants, implementing aggressive cost reduction measures and increasing exports from Germany to other European countries. We also closed a plant in the United Kingdom, shut down one production line in Germany, delayed capital investment projects in France and Poland and have converted one of our steel can production lines in Germany to aluminum in order to facilitate additional can exports from Germany. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Future events could affect these estimates. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the companys critical and significant accounting policies. The U.S. economy and the company have experienced minor general inflation during the past several years. Management believes that evaluation of Balls performance during the periods covered by these consolidated financial statements should be based upon historical financial statements. Forward Looking Statements The company has made or implied certain forward looking statements in this annual report which are made as of the end of the time frame covered by this report. These forward looking statements represent the companys goals, and results could vary materially from those expressed or implied. From time to time we also provide oral or written forward looking statements in other materials we release to the public. As time passes, the relevance and accuracy of forward looking statements may change. Some factors that could cause the companys actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements include, but are not limited to: fluctuation in customer and consumer growth and demand, particularly during the months when the demand for metal beverage cans is heaviest; loss of one or more major customers; product introductions; insufficient production capacity; overcapacity in foreign and domestic metal and plastic container industry production facilities and its impact on pricing and financial results; lack of productivity improvement or production cost reductions; changes in climate and weather; fruit, vegetable and fishing yields; power and natural resource costs; difficulty in obtaining supplies and energy, such as gas and electric power; shortages in and pricing of raw materials, particularly resin, steel, aluminum and energy, and the ability or inability to include or pass on to customers changes in raw material costs; changes in the pricing of the companys products and services; competition in pricing and the possible decrease in, or loss of, sales resulting therefrom; loss of profitability and plant closures; insufficient or reduced cash flow; transportation costs; the number and timing of the purchases of the companys common shares; the ability to obtain adequate credit resources for foreseeable financing requirements of the companys businesses and to satisfy the resulting credit obligations; fiscal and monetary policies established by the United States or foreign governments; regulatory action or federal and state legislation including mandated corporate governance and financial reporting laws; the German mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging legislation such as recycling laws; increases in interest rates, particularly on floating rate debt of the company; labor strikes; increases and trends in various employee benefits and labor costs, including pension, medical and health care costs incurred in the countries in which Ball has operations; rates of return projected and earned on assets and discount rates used to measure future obligations and expenses of the companys defined benefit retirement plans; boycotts; litigation; antitrust, intellectual property, consumer and other issues; maintenance and capital expenditures; goodwill impairment; the effect of LIFO accounting on earnings; changes in generally accepted accounting principles or their interpretation; local economic conditions; the authorization, funding and availability of contracts for the aerospace and technologies segment and the nature and continuation of those contracts and related services provided thereunder; technical uncertainty and schedule of performance associated with such segment contracts; international business and market risks such as the devaluation of certain currencies; pricing and ability or inability to sell scrap associated with the production of metal and plastic containers; the ability to invoice and collect accounts receivable related to such segment contracts in the ordinary course of business; international business risks (including foreign exchange rates and activities of foreign subsidiaries) in Europe and particularly in developing countries such as the PRC and Brazil; changes in the foreign exchange rates of the U.S. dollar against the European euro, British pound, Polish zloty, Serbian dinar, Hong Kong dollar, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi and Brazilian real, and in the foreign exchange rate of the European euro against the British pound, Polish zloty and Serbian dinar; terrorist activity or war that disrupts the companys production, supply or pricing of raw materials used in the production of the companys goods and services, including increased energy costs, and or disruptions in the ability of the company to obtain adequate credit resources for the foreseeable financing requirements of the companys businesses; successful or unsuccessful acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures and the integration activities associated therewith; changes to unaudited results due to statutory audits of our financial statements or internal controls over financial reporting; and loss contingencies related to income and other tax matters, including those arising from audits performed by U.S. and foreign tax authorities. If the company is unable to achieve its goals, then the companys actual performance could vary materially from those goals expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. The company currently does not intend to publicly update forward looking statements except as it deems necessary in quarterly or annual earnings reports. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10 K, 10 Q and 8 K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instruments and Risk Management In the ordinary course of business, we employ risk management policies and procedures to reduce our exposure to commodity price changes, changes in interest rates, fluctuations in foreign currencies and fluctuations in prices of the companys common stock in regard to common share repurchases. Although the instruments utilized involve varying degrees of credit and interest risk, the counter parties to the agreements are financial institutions, which are expected to perform fully under the terms of the agreements. To test the sensitivity of our market risk exposure, we have estimated the changes in fair value of market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in market prices or rates. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. Actual changes in market prices or rates may differ from hypothetical changes. Commodity Price Risk We manage our commodity price risk in connection with market price fluctuations of aluminum primarily by entering into container sales contracts, which generally include aluminum based pricing terms that consider price fluctuations under our commercial supply contracts for aluminum purchases. Such terms generally include a fixed price or an upper limit to the aluminum component pricing. This matched pricing affects most of our North American metal beverage container net sales. We also, at times, use certain derivative instruments such as option and forward contracts as cash flow hedges of commodity price risk. North American plastic container sales contracts include provisions to pass through resin cost changes. As a result, we believe we have minimal, if any, exposure related to changes in the cost of plastic resin. Most North American food container sales contracts either include provisions permitting us to pass through some or all steel cost changes we incur or incorporate annually negotiated steel costs. In 2004 we were able to pass through steel surcharges to our customers and we are currently in negotiations with respect to 2005 steel price increases. We believe these negotiations will result in the pass through of the majority of this years steel price increases. In Europe and Asia the company manages aluminum and steel raw material commodity price risks through annual and long term contracts for the purchase of the materials, as well as certain sales of containers, that reduce the companys exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices within the current year. These purchase and sales contracts include fixed price, floating and pass through pricing arrangements. The company also uses forward and option contracts as cash flow hedges to minimize the companys exposure to significant price changes for those sales contracts where there is not a pass through arrangement. Considering the effects of derivative instruments, the markets ability to accept price increases and the companys commodity price exposures, a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the companys metal prices could result in an estimated $3.8 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. Additionally, if foreign currency exchange rates were to change adversely by 10 percent, we estimate there could be a $5.2 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period for foreign currency exposures on the metal. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates. The company is also exposed to fluctuations in prices for utilities such as natural gas and electricity. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in our utility prices could result in an estimated $5.3 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates. Interest Rate Risk Our objective in managing exposure to interest rate changes is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we use a variety of interest rate swaps and options to manage our mix of floating and fixed rate debt. Interest rate instruments held by the company at December 31, 2004 and 2003, included pay fixed and pay floating interest rate swaps. Pay fixed swaps effectively convert variable rate obligations to fixed rate instruments. Pay floating swaps effectively convert fixed rate obligations to variable rate instruments. Based on our interest rate exposure at December 31, 2004, assumed floating rate debt levels throughout 2005 and the effects of derivative instruments, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates could result in an estimated $4.3 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates and the timing of these changes. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to protect foreign cash flows and earnings associated with foreign exchange rate changes through the use of cash flow hedges. In addition, we manage foreign earnings translation volatility through the use of foreign currency options. Our foreign currency translation risk results from the European euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi, Brazilian real and Serbian dinar. We face currency exposures in our global operations as a result of purchasing raw materials in U.S. dollars and, to a lesser extent, in other currencies. Sales contracts are negotiated with customers to reflect cost changes and, where there is not a foreign exchange pass through arrangement, the company uses forward and option contracts to manage foreign currency exposures. Considering the companys derivative financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2004, and the currency exposures, a hypothetical 10 percent reduction in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. dollar could result in an estimated $12.8 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. This amount includes the $5.2 million currency exposure discussed above in the Commodity Price Risk section. Actual changes in market prices or rates may differ from hypothetical changes. Common Share Repurchases In connection with the companys ongoing share repurchases, on January 31, 2005, Ball repurchased 3 million of its common shares at an initial price of $42.72 per share. The price per share is subject to a price adjustment based on a weighted average price calculation for the period between the initial purchase date and the settlement date of July 6, 2005. The company also sells put options from time to time, which give the purchasers of those options the right to sell shares of the companys common stock to the company on specified dates at specified prices upon the exercise of those options. The put option contracts allow us to determine the method of settlement, either in cash or shares. At December 31, 2004, there were put option contracts outstanding for 200,000 shares at $31.75 per share, which expired without value in February 2005. There were no put option contracts outstanding at December 31, 2003. 
 
