Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Ball Corporation and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as Ball or the company or we and our in the following discussion and analysis. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Ball Corporation is one of the worlds leading suppliers of metal and plastic packaging to the beverage and food industries. Our packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are currently manufactured in 49 plants around the world. We also supply aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers. We sell our packaging products primarily to major beverage and food producers with which we have developed long term customer relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and our large number of long term supply contracts. While we have diversified our customer base, we do sell a majority of our packaging products to relatively few major beverage and food companies in North America, Europe and the Peoples Republic of China (PRC), as do our equity joint ventures in Brazil, the U.S. and the PRC. We also purchase raw materials from relatively few suppliers. Because of our customer and supplier concentration, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the loss of a major customer or supplier or a material change in a supply agreement with a major customer or supplier, although our long term relationships and contracts mitigate these risks. In the rigid packaging industry, sales and earnings can be improved by reducing costs, developing new products, expanding volume and increasing pricing where possible. We are in the early stages of a project to upgrade and streamline our North American beverage can end manufacturing capabilities, a project that will result in productivity gains and cost reductions. While the U.S. and Canadian beverage container manufacturing industry is relatively mature, the European, PRC and Brazilian beverage can markets are growing (excluding the effects of the German mandatory deposit discussed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements) and are expected to continue to grow. We are capitalizing on the European growth by continuing to reconfigure some of our European can manufacturing lines and by opening in 2005 a new beverage can manufacturing plant in Belgrade, Serbia. Balls consolidated earnings are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We attempt to mitigate this exposure through the use of derivative financial instruments, as discussed in the Financial Instruments and Risk Management sections (within Item 7A and Item 8, Note 16, of this report). As part of our packaging strategy, we are focused on developing and marketing new and existing products that meet the ever expanding needs of our beverage and food customers. These innovations include new shapes, sizes, opening features and other functional benefits of both metal and plastic packaging. This packaging development activity helps us maintain and expand our supply positions with major beverage and food customers. The primary customers for the products and services provided by our aerospace and technologies segment are U.S. government agencies or their prime contractors. It is possible that federal budget reductions and priorities, or changes in agency budgets, could limit future funding and new contract awards or prolong contract performance. We recognize sales under long term contracts in the aerospace and technologies segment using the cost to cost, percentage of completion method of accounting. Our present contract mix consists of approximately two thirds cost plus contracts, which are billed at our costs plus an agreed upon profit component, and approximately one third fixed price contracts. We include time and material contracts in the fixed price category because such contracts typically provide for the sale of engineering labor at fixed hourly rates. Throughout the period of contract performance, we regularly reevaluate and, if necessary, revise our estimates of total contract revenue, total contract cost and progress toward completion. Because of contract payment schedules, limitations on funding and other contract terms, our sales and accounts receivable for this segment include amounts that have been earned but not yet billed. Page 19 of 97 Management uses various measures to evaluate company performance. The primary financial measures we use are earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), diluted earnings per share, economic value added (operating earnings after tax, as defined by the company, less a capital charge based on invested capital times our cost of capital), operating cash flow and free cash flow (generally defined by the company as cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures). These financial measures may be adjusted at times for items that affect comparability between periods. Nonfinancial measures in the packaging segments include production spoilage rates, quality control measures, safety statistics and production and shipment volumes. Additional measures used to evaluate performance in the aerospace and technologies segment include contract revenue realization, award and incentive fees realized, proposal win rates and backlog (including awarded, contracted and funded backlog). We recognize that attracting and retaining quality employees is critically important to the success of Ball and, because of this, we strive to pay employees competitively and encourage their prudent ownership of the companys common stock. For most management employees, a meaningful portion of compensation is at risk as an incentive, dependent upon economic value added operating performance. For more senior positions, more compensation is at risk. Through our employee stock purchase plan and 401(k) plan, which matches employee contributions with Ball common stock, many employees, regardless of organizational level, have opportunities to participate as Ball shareholders. CONSOLIDATED SALES AND EARNINGS The company has determined that it has five reportable segments organized along a combination of product lines and geographic areas North American metal beverage packaging, North American metal food packaging, North American plastic packaging, international packaging and aerospace and technologies. Prior periods have been conformed to the current presentation. We also have investments in companies in the U.S., the PRC and Brazil, which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and accordingly, their results are not included in segment sales or earnings. North American Metal Beverage Packaging The North American metal beverage packaging segment consists of operations located in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, which manufacture metal container products used primarily in beverage packing. This segment accounted for 42 percent of consolidated net sales in 2005 (43 percent in 2004). Sales were slightly higher in 2005 than in 2004 as lower 2005 sales volumes were offset by higher aluminum prices passed through to our customers. Metal beverage container volumes in 2005 were 2.5 percent below the previous years levels as a result of poor weather in the first quarter, temporary volume reductions and general softness in the beer and carbonated soft drink markets. Net changes in contracted volumes are expected to result in the restoration of the reduced 2005 volumes during 2006 and beyond. Sales were 3 percent higher in 2004 than in 2003. Contributing to the increase were the pass through of aluminum price increases and higher volumes in our specialty can products, partially offset by declines in standard 12 ounce can volumes. Sales in 2004 improved over 2003 due to the $28 million acquisition in March 2003 of Metal Packaging International, Inc., a small producer of metal beverage can ends. Based on publicly available information, we estimate that our shipments of metal beverage containers were approximately 31 percent of total U.S. and Canadian shipments in 2005. We continue to focus efforts on the growing custom beverage can business, which includes cans of different shapes, diameters and fill volumes, and cans with added functional attributes for new products and product line extensions. The conversion of a manufacturing line in our Golden, Colorado, plant from 12 ounce to 24 ounce cans was completed in the second quarter of 2005. We also announced plans to convert a line in our Monticello, Indiana, plant from 12 ounce can manufacturing to a line capable of producing beverage cans in sizes up to 16 ounces. This conversion was substantially completed in January 2006. Earnings in the segment were $229.8 million in 2005 compared to $279.1 million in 2004 and $250.8 million in 2003. The third quarter of 2005 included a pretax charge of $19.3 million ($11.7 million after tax) related to a project to significantly upgrade and streamline our North American beverage can end manufacturing capabilities. The charge included the write off of obsolete equipment spare parts and tooling, as well as employee termination costs. Over time, this capital project is expected to result in productivity improvements and reduced manufacturing costs. Page 20 of 97 We have installed the first production module in this multi year project and the second and third modules are in the installation phase. The project is expected to be completed in 2007. Also contributing to lower segment earnings in 2005 were higher freight costs from fuel surcharges, higher other direct material and utility costs and a $9 million increase in cost of sales due to rising raw material costs under the LIFO (last in first out) method of accounting. Energy, freight and other direct material costs were $32 million higher in 2005 than in 2004, partially offset by efficiency gains, cost controls and lower selling, general and administrative costs in 2005. While pricing pressures continue on our raw materials, other direct materials, and freight and utility costs, we continue to work with both customers and suppliers to maintain our volumes, as well as preserve our margins. The improvement in segment earnings in 2004 versus 2003 was the result of higher sales and production volumes, improved product mix and cost reduction programs. Partially offsetting these 2004 earnings improvements was an increase in cost of sales due to rising raw material costs under the LIFO (last in first out) method of accounting. In the fourth quarter of 2003, a gain of $1.6 million was recorded in connection with the sale of a metal beverage container facility that was shut down in December 2001. North American Metal Food Packaging The North American metal food packaging segment consists of operations located in the U.S. and Canada, which manufacture metal container products used primarily in food packaging. Segment sales in 2005 comprised 14 percent of consolidated net sales (14 percent in 2004) and were 6 percent higher than 2004 sales. Sales in 2005 reflected higher prices from the pass through of higher raw material costs. Sales volumes were flat compared to 2004 levels including, in the first quarter of 2005, the inclusion of a full quarters results from our Oakdale, California, facility which was acquired in March 2004 (discussed below). Sales were higher in 2004 than in 2003 due primarily to the acquisition of the Oakdale, California, facility, higher selling prices as a result of the pass through of raw material costs and some pre buying by customers in the fourth quarter of 2004 ahead of expected 2005 steel price increases. During 2004 and 2005, we were able to pass through the majority of the steel price increases and surcharges levied by steel producers. We estimate our 2005 shipments of 6.7 billion cans to be approximately 20 percent of total U.S. and Canadian metal food container shipments, based on publicly available trade information. On March 17, 2004, we acquired ConAgra Grocery Products Companys (ConAgra) interest in Ball Western Can Company LLC (Ball Western Can) for $30 million. Ball Western Can, located in Oakdale, California, was established in 2000 as a 50/50 joint venture between Ball and ConAgra and, prior to the acquisition, was accounted for by Ball using the equity method of accounting. Ball and ConAgras parent company, ConAgra Foods Inc., signed a long term agreement under which Ball provides metal food containers to ConAgra food packing locations in California. The acquisition of Ball Western Can added approximately one billion units of annual capacity. Segment earnings were $11.6 million in 2005 compared to $44.3 million in 2004 and $19.8 million in 2003. The fourth quarter of 2005 included a pretax charge of $4.6 million ($3.1 million after tax) for pension, severance and other employee benefit costs related to a reduction in force in our Burlington, Ontario, plant. The second quarter of 2005 included a pretax charge of $8.8 million ($5.9 million after tax) for the closure of a three piece food can manufacturing plant in Quebec. This action was taken to better match capacity to demand. The Quebec plant was closed and ceased operations in the third quarter of 2005 and an agreement has been reached to sell the land and building, which resulted in the second quarter charge being offset by a $2.2 million gain ($1.5 million after tax) in the fourth quarter to adjust the Quebec plant to net realizable value. Also contributing to lower segment earnings in 2005 were higher freight costs from fuel surcharges, higher other direct material and utility costs and an $8.5 million increase in cost of sales due to rising raw material costs under the LIFO (last in first out) method of accounting. Energy, freight and other direct material costs were $16 million higher in 2005 than in 2004, partially offset by efficiency gains, cost controls and lower selling, general and administrative costs in 2005. While pricing pressures continue on all of our raw materials, other direct materials, and freight and utility costs, we continue to work with both customers and suppliers to maintain our volumes, as well as preserve our margins. Page 21 of 97 The improvement in earnings in 2004 versus 2003 was the result of strong fourth quarter 2004 food can sales, higher production volumes, improved product mix and cost reduction programs. In addition, 2003 earnings were negatively impacted by $11 million of start up costs associated with a new two piece food can manufacturing line in Milwaukee. Partially offsetting these 2004 earnings improvements was an increase in cost of sales due to rising raw material costs under the LIFO (last in first out) method of accounting. In the first quarter of 2003, a net charge of $1.4 million was booked to record the costs of closing a metal food container plant offset by a gain from the sale of a previously closed plant. North American Plastic Packaging The North American plastic packaging segment consists of operations located in the U.S. which manufacture polyethylene terephthalate (PET) plastic container products used mainly in beverage packaging. Segment sales in 2005 comprised 8 percent of consolidated sales (7 percent in 2004) and increased 22 percent compared to 2004. The sales increase was related to the pass through to our customers of higher resin prices, as well as 7.5 percent higher sales volumes in 2005 compared to 2004, related to higher demand for barrier and heat set containers that provide longer shelf life for products, combined with strong demand for plastic water bottles. Sales in 2004 were 7 percent higher than in 2003, primarily as a result of several new preform sales contracts secured during 2004 and the pass through of raw material price increases. Carbonated soft drink and water sales volumes in 2004 were lower than expected primarily due to reduced demand on the East Coast, resulting from competitive pressures, and a delay in the commencement of a new customer supply opportunity on the West Coast. Although only a small percentage of our total volume, juice, sports drinks and beer container sales increased in 2005 and are expected to grow considerably in the future as more focus is given to these specialty markets and the development of our Heat Tek(TM) business. We estimate our 2005 shipments of more than 5 billion bottles to be approximately 9 percent of total U.S. and Canadian PET container shipments. Segment earnings were $17.4 million in 2005 compared to $11.6 million in 2004 and $12.3 million in 2003. The improvement in earnings in 2005 was the result of higher sales and production volumes and growth in specialty products. Partially offsetting these improvements in 2005 were higher utility costs. Segment earnings in 2004 and 2003 included $2 million and $2.7 million, respectively, of costs associated with the relocation of the plastics offices and research and development facility from Atlanta, Georgia, to Colorado. Earnings in 2004 were also negatively impacted by continued pricing pressures on commodity plastic containers for carbonated soft drink customers. Segment earnings in 2004 also included a gain of $0.7 million as costs related to the shut down and relocation of the Atlanta plastics offices were less than expected. International Packaging International packaging includes the production and sale of metal beverage container products manufactured and sold in Europe and Asia as well as plastic containers manufactured and sold in Asia. This segment accounted for 24 percent of consolidated net sales in 2005 (23 percent in 2004). Ball Packaging Europe, which represents an estimated 29 percent of the total European metal beverage container manufacturing capacity, has manufacturing plants located in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Poland and Serbia. European sales were 7 percent higher in 2005 than in 2004 primarily as a result of an 8.5 percent increase in sales volumes. The continued weak demand in Germany, as a result of the mandatory deposit legislation previously reported on, is being offset by stronger demand elsewhere in Europe, including southern and eastern Europe. Sales in 2005 were adversely affected by unseasonably cool, wet weather in parts of Europe. European sales were 10 percent higher in 2004 than in 2003 as a result of a stronger euro, higher selling prices and successful export programs from the German plants to other European countries. In response to increased demand for custom cans in Europe, a steel can manufacturing line in the Netherlands was converted to aluminum custom cans during the first quarter of 2005. The construction of a new beverage can plant in Belgrade, Serbia, was completed near the end of the second quarter of 2005 to serve the growing demand for beverage cans in southern and eastern Europe. The plant became fully operational during the third quarter of 2005. The Serbian plant was constructed to accommodate a second can production line and a can end manufacturing module for future growth. In the first quarter of 2004, a steel can manufacturing line in Germany was converted to the production of aluminum cans and, in the first quarter of 2003, one German can manufacturing line was idled. Page 22 of 97 Sales in the PRC in 2005 increased 21 percent over 2004 levels, which were 18 percent higher than in 2003. The increases were largely the result of higher volumes. The overall beverage can market in the PRC was also strong throughout 2005 with expectations of continued growth into 2006. We expect demand for aluminum beverage cans to grow in the coming years, as both multinational and Chinese beverage fillers expand their markets. International packaging segment earnings of $181.8 million in 2005 decreased 8 percent compared to 2004 earnings of $198 million. The fourth quarter of 2005 included a $9.3 million gain primarily resulting from the final settlement of all tax obligations related to liquidated China operations for amounts less than originally estimated. First quarter 2005 segment earnings included a $3.4 million expense for the write off of the remaining carrying value of an equity investment in the PRC. Earnings in 2004 included income of $13.7 million related to the realization of proceeds on assets in the PRC being in excess of amounts previously estimated, and costs of liquidation being less than anticipated in a business consolidation charge taken in 2001. Higher material, energy and transportation costs, as well as second and third quarter start up costs related to a line conversion in the Netherlands and the new Serbia plant had a negative effect on 2005 segment earnings. Partially offsetting these higher costs were lower selling, general and administrative costs. Earnings improved in 2004 compared to 2003 due to a stronger euro and higher profit margins in both Europe and the PRC due in large part to operational cost reduction programs. Segment earnings in 2004 were also improved over 2003 by the nonrecurrence of purchase accounting adjustments which increased Ball Packaging Europes cost of sales in 2003. The stronger euro improved our net earnings per diluted share by $0.08 in 2004 compared to 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2004, Sanshui Jianlibao FTB Packaging Limited (Sanshui JFP), a 35 percent owned PRC joint venture, experienced a greater than customary seasonal production slowdown caused by cash flow difficulties. After discussions with representatives of the local Chinese government, which had temporarily taken control of our joint venture partners business, we recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts in respect of Sanshui JFPs receivable from the joint venture partner. Our share of the bad debt provision amounted to $15.2 million and is included in the 2004 consolidated statement of earnings as equity in results of affiliates. Information learned late in the first quarter of 2005 led the company to record expense of $3.4 million to write off the remaining carrying value of this investment. In June 2001 we announced a plan to exit the general line metal can business in the PRC and reduce our PRC beverage can manufacturing capacity by closing two plants. A $237.7 million pretax charge ($185 million after tax and minority interest impact) was recorded in connection with this reorganization. We recorded earnings of $9.3 million during 2005, $13.7 million in 2004 and $3.3 million in 2003 as restructuring activities were completed, resulting in realization on assets in excess of amounts previously estimated, as well as costs incurred being less than estimated, including settlement of tax matters. All costs and transactions related to the PRC restructuring have been concluded. Aerospace and Technologies Aerospace and technologies segment sales represented 12 percent of 2005 consolidated net sales (12 percent in 2004) and were 6 percent higher than in 2004. Sales in 2004 were 22 percent higher than in 2003. The progressively higher sales resulted from a combination of newly awarded contracts and additions to previously awarded contracts. The aerospace and technologies business won a number of large, strategic contracts and delivered a great deal of sophisticated space and defense instrumentation throughout the three year period. Earnings of $54.7 million in 2005 were 12 percent higher compared to 2004 despite an expense of $3.8 million in the first quarter of 2005 for the write down to net realizable value of an equity investment in an aerospace company. This investment was sold in October 2005 for approximately its carrying value. The improvement in earnings was primarily the result of higher sales and improved program performance. Net earnings decreased in 2004 by 2 percent compared to 2003 largely due to increased pension costs and higher costs incurred on certain cost plus contracts without corresponding additional fees as these contracts reached completion. In addition, 2003 margins included $8 million due to successfully achieving milestones in two key programs. Page 23 of 97 On July 4, 2005, the Deep Impact spacecraft accomplished its goal of collecting data from comet Tempel 1, 83 million miles from Earth, using an impactor spacecraft to strike the comet and recording the results of the impact with a flyby spacecraft. The Deep Impact mission has provided groundbreaking scientific information regarding the origins of the solar system. Some of the segments other high profile contracts include: WorldView, an advanced commercial remote sensing satellite; the James Webb Space Telescope, a successor to the Hubble Space Telescope; the Space Based Space Surveillance System, which will detect and track space objects such as satellites and orbital debris; NPOESS, the next generation satellite weather monitoring system; and a number of antennas for the Joint Strike Fighter. Sales to the U.S. government, either directly as a prime contractor or indirectly as a subcontractor, represented 87 percent of segment sales in 2005, 82 percent in 2004 and 96 percent of segment sales in 2003. The percentage representing U.S. government sales has decreased compared to 2003 due to growing revenues related to the WorldView contract. Contracted backlog for the aerospace and technologies segment at December 31, 2005 and 2004, was $761 million and $694 million, respectively. Year to year comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of the trend of future operations. For additional information regarding the companys segments, see the summary of business segment information in Note 2 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. The charges recorded for business consolidation activities were based on estimates by Ball management, actuaries and other independent parties and were developed from information available at the time. If actual outcomes vary from the estimates, the differences will be reflected in current period earnings in the consolidated statement of earnings and identified as business consolidation gains and losses. Additional details about our business consolidation activities and associated costs are provided in Note 4 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses were $231.6 million, $267.9 million and $234.2 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Expenses in 2005 were lower in all areas of the company due largely to lower employee compensation and benefit costs, including the companys deposit share program and economic value added based incentive compensation plans. In addition, foreign currency hedging gains were higher in 2005 than in 2004. These lower costs were partially offset by higher pension costs, higher accounts receivable securitization fees and the write down of the PRC and aerospace equity investments in the first quarter of 2005. The increase in 2004 compared to 2003 was due to higher costs related to the companys deposit share program, higher pension and incentive costs, costs associated with Sarbanes Oxley compliance in 2004, higher research and development costs, the effects of foreign exchange rates and growth in our aerospace and technologies segment. In 2005 we reduced our U.S. pension plan discount rate from 6.25 percent to 6 percent, resulting in $5.4 million higher U.S. pension expense for the year compared to 2004, most of which was included in cost of sales. In 2004 we also reduced our U.S. pension plan discount rate from 6.75 percent to 6.25 percent, resulting in $8.3 million higher U.S. pension expense for the year compared to 2003. For the U.S. pension plans, we intend to maintain our current return on asset assumption at 8.5 percent for 2006 while further reducing the discount rate assumption to 5.75 percent. Based on these assumptions, U.S. pension expense for 2006 is anticipated to increase $10.5 million compared to 2005, most of which will be included in cost of sales. Pension expense in Europe and Canada combined is expected to be slightly lower than the 2005 expense. A reduction of the plan asset return assumption by one quarter of a percentage point would result in additional expense of approximately $1.9 million while a quarter of a percentage point reduction in the discount rate would result in approximately $3.8 million of additional expense. Additional information regarding the companys pension plans is provided in Note 13 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. On October 26, 2005, Balls board of directors approved the accelerated vesting of the out of the money, unvested nonqualified stock options granted in April 2005. The acceleration affects approximately 665,000 options granted to approximately 290 employees at an exercise price of $39.74. The accelerated vesting of these nonqualified options will allow the company to eliminate approximately $5 million of pretax expense (approximately $3 million after tax) over the next four years. Page 24 of 97 Interest and Taxes Consolidated interest expense was $116.4 million in 2005, including debt refinancing costs of $19.3 million; $103.7 million in 2004 and $141.1 million in 2003, including debt refinancing costs of $15.2 million. The progressively lower expense was due to lower average borrowings and higher capitalized interest. The debt refinancing costs in 2005 of $19.3 million were costs associated with the refinancing of the companys senior credit facilities and the redemption in the last half of 2005 of the companys 7.75% senior notes, which were due in August 2006. The debt refinancing costs in 2003 of $15.2 million were associated with the early redemption of the companys 8.25% senior subordinated notes in August 2003. Balls consolidated effective income tax rate for 2005 was 28.7 percent compared to 32 percent in 2004 and 31.3 percent in 2003. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the net tax benefit recorded on the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Jobs Act), the tax benefit on business consolidation costs applied at the marginal tax rate, increased research and development tax credits and the manufacturing deduction effective in 2005 under the Jobs Act. (Further details of the amounts repatriated under the Jobs Act are available in Note 12 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report.) These benefits were somewhat offset by the fact that no tax benefit was provided in respect of the equity investment write downs in the first quarter of 2005. The $3.8 million write down of the aerospace investment is not tax deductible while the realization of tax deductibility of the $3.4 million PRC write down, which will be a capital loss, is not reasonably assured as the company does not have, nor does it anticipate, any capital gains to offset the capital losses. Balls consolidated effective income tax rate for 2004 was 32 percent compared to 31.3 percent in 2003. The overall 2004 effective rate was slightly higher, primarily due to higher North American earnings than in 2003, but continues to reflect a low consolidated European income tax rate due to lower profits in Germany, reflecting the impact of the refundable mandatory deposit on non refillable containers imposed on January 1, 2003, and a tax holiday in Poland. Germany has the highest tax rate of the European countries in which Ball has operations. In connection with the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) examination of Balls consolidated income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2003, the IRS has proposed to disallow Balls deductions of interest expense incurred on loans under a company owned life insurance plan that has been in place for more than 19 years. Ball believes that its interest deductions will be sustained as filed and, therefore, no provision for loss has been accrued. The IRSs proposed adjustments would result in an increase in taxable income for the years 1999 through 2003 of $46.7 million and a corresponding increase in taxable income for subsequent tax years 2004 and 2005 in the amount of $20.2 million with a corresponding increase in tax expense of $26.4 million plus any related penalties and interest expense. The examination reports for the 2000 to 2003 examination have been forwarded to the appeals division of the IRS, and no further action has taken place to change Balls position. Results of Equity Affiliates Equity in the earnings of affiliates in 2005 is primarily attributable to our 50 percent ownership in packaging investments in North America and Brazil. Earnings in 2004 included the results of a minority owned aerospace business, which was sold in October 2005, and a $15.2 million loss representing Balls share of a provision for doubtful accounts related to its 35 percent owned interest in Sanshui JFP (discussed above in International Packaging). After consideration of the PRC loss, earnings were $15.5 million in 2005 compared to $15.8 million in 2004 and $11.3 million in 2003. The higher earnings since 2003 were primarily due to improved results in our packaging joint ventures in Brazil and North America. Page 25 of 97 Subsequent Event On February 14, 2006, the company entered into a definitive merger agreement in which Ball will acquire U.S. Can Corporations (U.S. Can) U.S. and Argentinean operations for 1.1 million shares of Ball common stock and the assumption of $550 million of U.S. Cans debt. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter 2006. U.S. Can is the largest manufacturer of aerosol cans in the U.S. and also manufactures paint cans, plastic containers and custom and specialty cans in 10 plants in the U.S. Aerosol cans are also produced in the two manufacturing plants in Argentina. U.S. Cans U.S. and Argentinean operations had sales of approximately $600 million (unaudited) in 2005. Upon closing the acquisition of U.S. Can, the company intends to refinance $550 million of existing U.S. Can debt at significantly lower interest rates. The refinancing will be completed with Balls issuance of a new series of senior notes and an increase in bank debt under the new senior credit facilities put in place in the fourth quarter of 2005. CRITICAL AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For information regarding the companys critical and significant policies, as well as recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows and Capital Expenditures Cash flows from operating activities were $558.8 million in 2005 compared to $535.9 million in 2004 and $364 million in 2003. The lower amount generated in 2003 included $138.3 million for the payment in January 2003 of an accrued withholding tax obligation related to the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe (further discussed below) which was funded by the seller at the time of closing by the inclusion of 131 million of additional cash. Management internally uses a free cash flow measure: (1) to evaluate the companys operating results, (2) for planning purposes, (3) to evaluate strategic investments and (4) to evaluate the companys ability to incur and service debt. Free cash flow is not a defined term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and it should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as cash flow from operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment (capital spending). Free cash flow is typically derived directly from the companys cash flow statements; however, it may be adjusted for items that affect comparability between periods. An example of such an item excluded in 2003 is the $138.3 million withholding tax payment liability assumed in the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe in December 2002 (discussed above). We believe this is not a comparable free cash flow outflow of the company as it was funded by the seller. Based on this, our consolidated free cash flow is summarized as follows: ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Cash flows from operating activities $ 558.8 $ 535.9 $ 364.0 Add back withholding tax payment related to the acquisition of Ball Packaging Europe 138.3 Capital spending (291.7 ) (196.0 ) (137.2 ) Free cash flow $ 267.1 $ 339.9 $ 365.1 Cash flows from operating activities in 2005 were negatively impacted by higher cash taxes. This resulted in a decrease in the deferred income taxes payable of $58.5 million in 2005 compared to an estimated increase in deferred taxes of $42.8 million in 2004. The primary causes of the increase in current income taxes and decrease in deferred income taxes are the reduction in 2005 of tax deductible pension costs versus 2004, the impact in 2005 of the repatriation of foreign earnings and a reduction of tax versus book depreciation expense as tax depreciation was accelerated in prior years, primarily due to bonus tax depreciation permitted in the tax laws after September 11, 2001. Cash flows from operating activities were positively affected in 2005 by lower accounts receivable, higher accounts payable and lower pension contributions. Page 26 of 97 Cash flow in 2004 compared to 2003 included higher earnings and higher accounts payable, offset by higher accounts receivable and inventories, as well as higher pension plan contributions. Inventories and accounts payable were higher due to increased purchases of raw materials and accounts receivable were higher partially as a result of strong December food can sales. Based on information currently available, we estimate cash flows from operating activities for 2006 to be approximately $550 million, capital spending to be approximately $300 million and free cash flow to be in the $250 million range. Capital spending of $291.7 million in 2005 was above depreciation and amortization expense of $213.5 million as we invested capital in our best performing operations, including projects to increase custom can capabilities, improve beverage can end making productivity, convert lines from steel to aluminum in Europe and complete a new beverage can manufacturing plant in Belgrade, Serbia, as well as expenditures in the aerospace and technologies segment. Debt Facilities and Refinancing Interest bearing debt at December 31, 2005, decreased $71 million to $1,589.7 million from $1,660.7 million at December 31, 2004. This decrease includes $358.1 million for net repurchases of common stock and $291.7 million of capital spending, partially offset by the effects of the lower euro exchange rate and operating cash flow. On October 13, 2005, Ball refinanced its senior secured credit facilities. The new senior secured facilities extend debt maturities at lower interest rate spreads and provide Ball with additional borrowing capacity for future growth. During the third and fourth quarters of 2005, Ball redeemed its 7.75% senior notes due August 2006 primarily through the drawdown of funds under the new credit facilities. The refinancing and redemption resulted in a pretax debt refinancing charge of $19.3 million ($12.3 million after tax) to reflect the call premium associated with the senior notes and the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs. The new senior credit facilities, which currently bear interest at variable rates and are due in October 2011, are comprised of the following: (1) 85 million Term A Loan; (2) 350 million Term B Loan; (3) C$165 million Term C Loan; (4) a multi currency long term revolving credit facility which provides the company with up to the equivalent of $715 million; and (5) a Canadian long term revolving credit facility which provides the company with up to the equivalent of $35 million. At December 31, 2005, $547 million was available under the multi currency revolving credit facility. The company also had $267 million of short term uncommitted credit facilities available at the end of the year, of which $106.8 million was outstanding. During the first quarter of 2004, Ball repaid 31 million ($38 million) of its previous euro denominated Term Loan B and reduced the interest rate by 50 basis points. During the fourth quarter of 2003, Ball repaid $160 million of its previous U.S. dollar denominated Term Loan B and 25 million of its previous euro denominated Term Loan B. At the time of the early repayment, the interest rate on the U.S. portion of the Term Loan B was reduced by 50 basis points. Interest expense during the first quarter of 2004 and the fourth quarter of 2003 included $0.5 million and $2.9 million, respectively, for the write off of the unamortized financing costs associated with the repaid loans. On August 8, 2003, Ball refinanced 8.25% Senior Subordinated Notes due in 2008 through the private placement of $250 million of 6.875% Senior Notes due in 2012 issued at a price of 102% (effective yield to maturity of 6.58 percent). In connection with the refinancing of the higher interest debt, in the third quarter of 2003 a pretax charge of $15.2 million was recorded as interest expense, which consisted of the payment of a $10.3 million call premium and the write off of $4.9 million of unamortized financing costs. The company has a receivables sales agreement that provides for the ongoing, revolving sale of a designated pool of trade accounts receivable of Balls North American packaging operations, up to $225 million as of December 31, 2005 ($200 million as of December 31, 2004). The agreement qualifies as off balance sheet financing under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140. Net funds received from the sale of the accounts receivable totaled $210 million and $174.7 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and are reflected as a reduction of accounts receivable in the consolidated balance sheets. Page 27 of 97 The company was not in default of any loan agreement at December 31, 2005, and has met all payment obligations. The U.S. note agreements, bank credit agreement and industrial development revenue bond agreements contain certain restrictions relating to dividends, investments, financial ratios, guarantees and the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Additional details about the companys receivables sales agreement and debt are available in Notes 5 and 11, respectively, accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. Other Liquidity Items Cash payments required for long term debt maturities, rental payments under noncancellable operating leases and purchasing obligations in effect at December 31, 2005, are summarized in the following table: Payments Due By Period ($ in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years Long term debt $ 1,472.4 $ 7.7 $ 105.1 $ 290.4 $ 1,069.2 Capital lease obligations 6.7 1.8 2.4 0.5 2.0 Operating leases 198.0 45.8 60.6 34.8 56.8 Purchase obligations (a) 7,385.4 2,193.8 2,902.6 1,910.7 378.3 Total payments on contractual obligations $ 9,062.5 $ 2,249.1 $ 3,070.7 $ 2,236.4 $ 1,506.3 (a) The companys purchase obligations include contracted amounts for aluminum, steel, plastic resin and other direct materials. Also included are commitments for purchases of natural gas and electricity, aerospace and technologies contracts and other less significant items. In cases where variable prices and or usage are involved, managements best estimates have been used. Depending on the circumstances, early termination of the contracts may not result in penalties and, therefore, actual payments could vary significantly. Contributions to the companys defined benefit pension plans, not including the unfunded German plans, are expected to be $49 million in 2006. This estimate may change based on plan asset performance. Benefit payments related to these plans are expected to be $43 million, $46 million, $48 million, $51 million and $54 million for the years ending December 31, 2006 through 2010, respectively, and $318 million thereafter. Payments to participants in the unfunded German plans are expected to be $22 million, $22 million, $23 million, $24 million and $24 million for the years 2006 through 2010, respectively, and a total of $131 million thereafter. We increased our share repurchase program in 2005 to $358.1 million, net of issuances, compared to $50 million net repurchases in 2004. On January 31, 2005, in a privately negotiated stock repurchase transaction, Ball entered into a forward purchase agreement to repurchase 3 million of its common shares at an initial price of $42.72 per share using cash on hand and available borrowings. The price per share was subject to a price adjustment based on a weighted average price calculation for the period between the initial purchase date and the settlement date. The company completed its purchase of the 3 million shares at an average price of $41.63 per share and obtained delivery of the shares in early May 2005. On October 26, 2005, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to 12 million shares of Ball common stock. This most recent repurchase authorization replaced the previous authorization of up to 12 million shares approved in July 2004, under which approximately 1 million shares remained at October 26, 2005. Annual cash dividends paid on common stock were 40 cents per share in 2005, 35 cents per share in 2004 and 24 cents per share in 2003. Total dividends paid were $42.5 million in 2005, $38.9 million in 2004 and $26.8 million in 2003. Page 28 of 97 Contingencies The company is subject to various risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business due, in part, to the competitive nature of the industries in which we participate, our operations in developing markets outside the U.S., changing commodity prices for the materials used in the manufacture of our products and changing capital markets. Where practicable, we attempt to reduce these risks and uncertainties through the establishment of risk management policies and procedures, including, at times, the use of derivative financial instruments as explained in Item 7A of this report. From time to time, the company is subject to routine litigation incident to its business. Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has designated Ball as a potentially responsible party, along with numerous other companies, for the cleanup of several hazardous waste sites. Our information at this time does not indicate that these matters will have a material adverse effect upon the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the company. Due to political and legal uncertainties in Germany, no nationwide system for returning beverage containers was in place at the time a mandatory deposit was imposed in January 2003 and nearly all retailers stopped carrying beverages in non refillable containers. During 2003 and 2004, we responded to the resulting lower demand for beverage cans by reducing production at our German plants, implementing aggressive cost reduction measures and increasing exports from Germany to other countries in the region served by Ball Packaging Europe. We also closed a plant in the United Kingdom, shut down a production line in Germany, delayed capital investment projects in France and Poland and converted one of our steel can production lines in Germany to aluminum in order to facilitate additional can exports from Germany. In 2004 the German parliament adopted a new packaging ordinance, imposing a 25 eurocent deposit on all one way glass, PET and metal containers for water, beer and carbonated soft drinks. As of May 1, 2006, all retailers must redeem all returned one way containers as long as they sell such containers. Major retailers in Germany have begun the process of implementing a returnable system for one way containers since they, along with fillers, now appear to accept the deposit as permanent. The retailers and the filling and packaging industries have formed a committee to design a nationwide recollection system and several retailers have begun to order reverse vending machines in order to meet the May 1, 2006, deadline. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Future events could affect these estimates. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements (within Item 8 of this report) for a summary of the companys critical and significant accounting policies. The U.S. and European economies and the company have experienced minor general inflation during the past several years. Management believes that evaluation of Balls performance during the periods covered by these consolidated financial statements should be based upon historical financial statements. Page 29 of 97 Forward Looking Statements The company has made or implied certain forward looking statements in this report which are made as of the end of the time frame covered by this report. These forward looking statements represent the companys goals, and results could vary materially from those expressed or implied. From time to time we also provide oral or written forward looking statements in other materials we release to the public. As time passes, the relevance and accuracy of forward looking statements may change. Some factors that could cause the companys actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements include, but are not limited to: fluctuation in customer and consumer growth and demand; loss of one or more major customers or changes to contracts with one or more customers; insufficient production capacity; overcapacity in foreign and domestic metal and plastic container industry production facilities and its impact on pricing and financial results; failure to achieve anticipated productivity improvements or production cost reductions, including those associated with capital expenditures such as our beverage can end project; changes in climate and weather; fruit, vegetable and fishing yields; power and natural resource costs; difficulty in obtaining supplies and energy, such as gas and electric power; availability and cost of raw materials, as well as the recent significant increases in resin, steel, aluminum and energy costs, and the ability or inability to include or pass on to customers changes in raw material costs; changes in the pricing of the companys products and services; competition in pricing and the possible decrease in, or loss of, sales resulting therefrom; insufficient or reduced cash flow; transportation costs; the number and timing of the purchases of the companys common shares; regulatory action or federal and state legislation including mandated corporate governance and financial reporting laws; the German mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging legislation such as recycling laws; interest rates affecting our debt; labor strikes; increases and trends in various employee benefits and labor costs, including pension, medical and health care costs; rates of return projected and earned on assets and discount rates used to measure future obligations and expenses of the companys defined benefit retirement plans; boycotts; antitrust, intellectual property, consumer and other litigation; maintenance and capital expenditures; goodwill impairment; the effect of LIFO accounting on earnings; changes in generally accepted accounting principles or their interpretation; local economic conditions; the authorization, funding, availability and returns of contracts for the aerospace and technologies segment and the nature and continuation of those contracts and related services provided thereunder; delays, extensions and technical uncertainties, as well as schedules of performance associated with such segment contracts; international business and market risks such as the devaluation or revaluation of certain currencies and the activities of foreign subsidiaries; international business risks (including foreign exchange rates and activities of foreign subsidiaries) in Europe and particularly in developing countries such as the PRC and Brazil; changes in the foreign exchange rates of the U.S. dollar against the European euro, British pound, Polish zloty, Serbian dinar, Hong Kong dollar, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi and Brazilian real, and in the foreign exchange rate of the European euro against the British pound, Polish zloty and Serbian dinar; terrorist activity or war that disrupts the companys production or supply; regulatory action or laws including tax, environmental and workplace safety; technological developments and innovations; successful or unsuccessful acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures and the integration activities associated therewith; changes to unaudited results due to statutory audits of our financial statements or managements evaluation of the companys internal controls over financial reporting; and loss contingencies related to income and other tax matters, including those arising from audits performed by U.S. and foreign tax authorities. If the company is unable to achieve its goals, then the companys actual performance could vary materially from those goals expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. The company currently does not intend to publicly update forward looking statements except as it deems necessary in quarterly or annual earnings reports. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10 K, 10 Q and 8 K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Page 30 of 97 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instruments and Risk Management In the ordinary course of business, we employ established risk management policies and procedures to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currencies and prices of the companys common stock in regard to common share repurchases. Although the instruments utilized involve varying degrees of credit, market and interest risk, the counterparties to the agreements are expected to perform fully under the terms of the agreements. We have estimated our market risk exposure using sensitivity analysis. Market risk exposure has been defined as the changes in fair value of derivative instruments, financial instruments and commodity positions. To test the sensitivity of our market risk exposure, we have estimated the changes in fair value of market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in market prices or rates. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. Commodity Price Risk We manage our commodity price risk in connection with market price fluctuations of aluminum primarily by entering into container sales contracts, which generally include aluminum based pricing terms that consider price fluctuations under our commercial supply contracts for aluminum purchases. Such terms generally include a fixed price or an upper limit to the aluminum component pricing. This matched pricing affects most of our North American metal beverage container net sales. We also, at times, use certain derivative instruments such as option and forward contracts as cash flow and fair value hedges of commodity price risk where there is not a pass through arrangement in the sales contract. Our North American plastic container sales contracts include provisions to pass through resin cost changes. As a result, we believe we have minimal, if any, exposure related to changes in the cost of plastic resin. Most North American food container sales contracts either include provisions permitting us to pass through some or all steel cost changes we incur or incorporate annually negotiated steel costs. In 2005 and 2004 we were able to pass through the majority of steel surcharges to our customers. In Europe and Asia the company manages aluminum and steel raw material commodity price risks through annual and long term contracts for the purchase of the materials, as well as certain sales of containers, that reduce the companys exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices within the current year. These purchase and sales contracts include fixed price, floating and pass through pricing arrangements. The company also uses forward and option contracts as cash flow hedges to minimize the companys exposure to significant price changes for those sales contracts where there is not a pass through arrangement. Considering the effects of derivative instruments, the markets ability to accept price increases and the companys commodity price exposures, a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the companys metal prices could result in an estimated $5.2 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. Additionally, if foreign currency exchange rates were to change adversely by 10 percent, we estimate there could be an $11.7 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period for foreign currency exposures on the metal. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates. Sensitivity to foreign currency exposures related to metal increased over prior years due to an increase in metal purchases and related payables at our foreign operations, which are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. The company is also exposed to fluctuations in prices for utilities such as natural gas and electricity. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in our utility prices could result in an estimated $7.3 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates. Page 31 of 97 Interest Rate Risk Our objective in managing exposure to interest rate changes is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we use a variety of interest rate swaps and options to manage our mix of floating and fixed rate debt. Interest rate instruments held by the company at December 31, 2005 and 2004, included pay fixed and pay floating interest rate swaps. Pay fixed swaps effectively convert variable rate obligations to fixed rate instruments. The majority of the pay floating swaps, which effectively convert fixed rate obligations to variable rate instruments, are fair value hedges. Based on our interest rate exposure at December 31, 2005, assumed floating rate debt levels throughout 2006 and the effects of derivative instruments, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates could result in an estimated $5.2 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates and the timing of these changes. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to protect foreign cash flows and earnings associated with foreign exchange rate changes through the use of cash flow hedges. In addition, we manage foreign earnings translation volatility through the use of foreign currency options. Our foreign currency translation risk results from the European euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi, Brazilian real and Serbian dinar. We face currency exposures in our global operations as a result of purchasing raw materials in U.S. dollars and, to a lesser extent, in other currencies. Sales contracts are negotiated with customers to reflect cost changes and, where there is not a foreign exchange pass through arrangement, the company uses forward and option contracts to manage foreign currency exposures. Considering the companys derivative financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2005, and the currency exposures, a hypothetical 10 percent reduction in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. dollar could result in an estimated $19.4 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. This amount includes the $11.7 million currency exposure discussed above in the Commodity Price Risk section. This hypothetical adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates would also reduce our forecasted average debt balance by $63 million. Actual changes in market prices or rates may differ from hypothetical changes. Sensitivity to foreign currency exposures related to metal increased over prior years due to an increase in metal purchases and related payables at our foreign operations, which are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. Page 32 of 97 
 
