Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Ball Corporation and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as Ball or the company or we or our in the following discussion and analysis. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Ball Corporation is one of the worlds leading suppliers of metal and plastic packaging to the beverage, food and household products industries. Our packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are manufactured in plants around the world. We also supply aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers. We sell our packaging products primarily to major beverage and food companies and producers of household products with which we have developed long term customer relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and our large number of long term supply contracts. While we have diversified our customer base, we do sell a majority of our packaging products to relatively few major companies in North America, Europe, the Peoples Republic of China (PRC) and Argentina, as do our equity joint ventures in Brazil, the U.S. and the PRC. We also purchase raw materials from relatively few suppliers. Because of our customer and supplier concentration, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the loss of a major customer or supplier or a change in a supply agreement with a major customer or supplier, although our long term relationships and contracts mitigate these risks. In the rigid packaging industry, sales and earnings can be improved by reducing costs, developing new products, volume expansion and increasing pricing. In 2008 we expect to complete a project to upgrade and streamline our North American beverage can end manufacturing capabilities, a project that is expected to result in productivity gains and cost reductions beginning in 2007. While the U.S. and Canadian beverage container manufacturing industry is relatively mature, the European, PRC and Brazilian beverage can markets are growing and are expected to continue to grow. We are capitalizing on this growth by continuing to reconfigure some of our European can manufacturing lines and by having constructed a new beverage can manufacturing plant in Belgrade, Serbia, in 2005. To better position the company in the European market, the capacity from the fire damaged Hassloch, Germany, plant will be replaced with a mix of steel beverage can manufacturing capacity in the Hassloch plant and aluminum beverage can manufacturing capacity in the companys Hermsdorf, Germany, plant. As part of our packaging strategy, we are focused on developing and marketing new and existing products that meet the needs of our customers. These innovations include new shapes, sizes, opening features and other functional benefits of both metal and plastic packaging. This packaging development activity helps us maintain and expand our supply positions with major beverage, food and household products customers. Balls consolidated earnings are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We attempt to mitigate this exposure through the use of derivative financial instruments, as discussed in Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk within Item 7A of this report. The primary customers for the products and services provided by our aerospace and technologies segment are U.S. government agencies or their prime contractors. It is possible that federal budget reductions and priorities, or changes in agency budgets, could limit future funding and new contract awards or delay or prolong contract performance. We recognize sales under long term contracts in the aerospace and technologies segment using the cost to cost, percentage of completion method of accounting. Our present contract mix consists of approximately two thirds cost type contracts, which are billed at our costs plus an agreed upon and or earned profit component, and approximately one third fixed price contracts. We include time and material contracts in the fixed price category because such contracts typically provide for the sale of engineering labor at fixed hourly rates. Page 21 of 98 Throughout the period of contract performance, we regularly reevaluate and, if necessary, revise our estimates of total contract revenue, total contract cost and progress toward completion. Because of contract payment schedules, limitations on funding and other contract terms, our sales and accounts receivable for this segment include amounts that have been earned but not yet billed. Management uses various measures to evaluate company performance. The primary financial metric we use is economic valued added (operating earnings, as defined by the company, less a charge for net operating assets employed). Our goal is to increase economic valued added on an annual basis. Other financial metrics we use are earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow and free cash flow (generally defined by the company as cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures). These financial measures may be adjusted at times for items that affect comparability between periods. Nonfinancial measures in the packaging segments include production spoilage rates, quality control figures, safety statistics and production and shipment volumes. Additional measures used to evaluate performance in the aerospace and technologies segment include contract revenue realization, award and incentive fees realized, proposal win rates and backlog (including awarded, contracted and funded backlog). We recognize that attracting and retaining quality employees is essential to the success of Ball and, because of this, we strive to pay employees competitively and encourage their ownership of the companys common stock as part of a diversified portfolio. For most management employees, a meaningful portion of compensation is at risk as an incentive, dependent upon economic value added operating performance. For more senior positions, more compensation is at risk. Through our employee stock purchase plan and 401(k) plan, which matches employee contributions with Ball common stock, employees, regardless of organizational level, have opportunities to own Ball shares. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS On March 27, 2006, Ball acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of U.S. Can Corporation (U.S. Can) for consideration of 444,756 common shares of Ball Corporation (valued at $44.28 per share for a total of $19.7 million). In connection with the acquisition, Ball refinanced $598.2 million of U.S. Can debt, including $26.8 million of bond redemption premiums and fees, and over the next several years expects to realize approximately $42 million for acquired net operating tax loss carryforwards. As a result of this acquisition, Ball became the largest manufacturer of aerosol cans in North America and now manufactures aerosol cans, paint cans, plastic containers and custom and specialty cans in 10 plants in the U.S. and aerosol cans in two plants in Argentina. In October 2006 the company announced it would close an acquired plant in Alliance, Ohio. The acquired operations have annual sales of approximately $600 million. The acquired business forms part of Balls metal food and household products packaging, Americas, segment and its results have been included since the date of acquisition. Effective January 1, 2007, responsibility for the U.S. Can plastics business was transferred to our plastic packaging, Americas, segment. On March 28, 2006, Ball acquired North American plastic bottle container assets from Alcan Packaging (Alcan) for $184.7 million cash. This acquisition strengthens the companys plastic container business and complements its food container business. The acquired assets included two plastic container manufacturing plants in the U.S. and one in Canada, as well as certain manufacturing equipment and other assets from other Alcan facilities. The acquired business primarily manufactures and sells barrier polypropylene plastic bottles used in food packaging and, to a lesser extent, barrier PET plastic bottles used for beverages and food. The acquired operations have annual sales of approximately $150 million. The operations form part of Balls plastic packaging, Americas, segment and their results have been included since the date of acquisition. The company refinanced U.S. Cans debt at the time of the acquisition with significantly lower interest rates through the issuance by Ball Corporation of $450 million of new senior notes and a $500 million increase in bank debt under the senior credit facilities put in place in the fourth quarter of 2005. The proceeds of these financings were also used to acquire the Alcan operations and to reduce seasonal working capital debt. On April 1, 2006, a fire in the metal beverage can plant in Hassloch, Germany, damaged the majority of the building and machinery and equipment. In November 2006 the company reached final agreement with the insurance carrier on property insurance and business interruption recoveries. Additional details are available in the Consolidated Sales and Earnings section for the Metal Beverage Packaging, Europe/Asia segment. Page 22 of 98 In June 2006 the companys U.S. defined benefit plans for salaried employees were amended to provide more flexibility for future pension benefits by allowing portability and changing the benefit to a career average pay scheme that grows by a prescribed amount annually. The annual accounting expense under the amended plans will be lower and more predictable. The amendments, which were effective January 1, 2007, reduced 2006 pension expense by approximately $7 million. We intend to reduce our current return on asset assumption for the U.S. pension plans to 8.25 percent for 2007, based upon current market conditions and anticipated long term rate of return on plan assets, while increasing the discount rate assumption to 6 percent. Based on these assumptions and the 2006 salaried plan design changes, U.S. pension expense for 2007 is anticipated to increase $4 million compared to 2006, most of which will be included in cost of sales. Pension expense in Europe and Canada combined is expected to be slightly higher than the 2006 expense. A reduction of the plan asset return assumption by one quarter of a percentage point would result in additional expense of approximately $2.2 million while a quarter of a percentage point reduction in the discount rate would result in approximately $1.9 million of additional expense. Additional information regarding the companys pension plans is provided in Note 14 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. CONSOLIDATED SALES AND EARNINGS The company has five reportable segments organized along a combination of product lines and geographic areas: (1) metal beverage packaging, Americas, (2) metal beverage packaging, Europe/Asia, (3) metal food and household products packaging, Americas, (4) plastic packaging, Americas, and (5) aerospace and technologies. We also have investments in companies in the U.S., the PRC and Brazil, which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, those results are not included in segment sales or earnings. We expect a strong first quarter in 2007 as elevated raw material inventories are reduced to more normal levels. During the fourth quarter of 2006, Balls management changed its method of inventory accounting for certain invnetories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method in the metal beverage, Americas, and the metal food and household products packaging, Americas, segments. All periods presented have been retrospectively adjusted on a FIFO basis. In the third quarter of 2006, the company changed its expense allocation method by allocating to each of the packaging segments stock based compensation expense previously included in corporate undistributed expenses. The change did not have a significant impact on any segment for the current or prior years. Prior periods have been conformed to the current presentation of the segments and the change in expense allocation. Metal Beverage Packaging, Americas The metal beverage packaging, Americas, segment consists of operations located in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, which manufacture products used primarily in beverage packaging. This segment accounted for 39 percent of consolidated net sales in 2006 (42 percent in 2005). Sales were 9 percent higher in 2006 than in 2005 due to more than 4 percent higher beverage can shipments coupled with higher aluminum prices passed through to our customers. The increased sales over 2005 were also driven by favorable weather in many parts of the U.S. and Canada, as well as the promotion of 12 ounce can packages by beer and soft drink companies. Sales in 2005 were slightly higher than in 2004 as lower 2005 sales volumes were offset by the pass through of higher aluminum prices. Metal beverage container volumes in 2005 were 2.5 percent below the previous years levels as a result of poor weather in the first quarter, temporary volume reductions and general softness in the beer and carbonated soft drink markets. Based on publicly available information, we estimate that our shipments of metal beverage containers were approximately 32 percent of total U.S. and Canadian shipments in 2006. We continue to focus efforts on the growing custom beverage can business, which includes cans of different shapes, diameters and fill volumes, and cans with added functional attributes for new products and product line extensions. During the first quarter of 2006, we completed the conversion of a line in our Monticello, Indiana, plant from 12 ounce can manufacturing to a line capable of producing other sizes. Earnings in the segment were $269.4 million in 2006 compared to $234.8 million in 2005 and $275.7 million in 2004. The third quarter of 2005 included a pretax charge of $19.3 million ($11.7 million after tax) related to a project to significantly upgrade and streamline our North American beverage can end manufacturing capabilities. The charge included the write off of obsolete equipment spare parts and tooling, as well as employee termination costs. Over time, this capital project is expected to result in productivity improvements and reduced manufacturing Page 23 of 98 costs. We have installed and are operating three of eight production modules in this multi year project and the fourth and fifth modules are in the installation phase. The project is expected to be completed in 2008. In connection with this project, the can end manufacturing operations at the Reidsville, North Carolina, plant were shut down during the fourth quarter of 2006. Despite higher sales in 2006, segment earnings growth was constrained by product mix and continued year over year cost growth, particularly higher energy, other direct material and freight costs, which were $21 million more than in 2005. While contract price escalations have commenced for many of our customers, cost growth has continued to outpace price increases. Energy, freight and other direct material costs were $32 million higher in 2005 than in 2004, partially offset by efficiency gains, cost controls and lower selling, general and administrative costs in 2005. While pricing pressures continue on our raw materials, other direct materials, and freight and utility costs, we continue to work with both customers and suppliers to maintain our volumes, as well as preserve our margins. Metal Beverage Packaging, Europe/Asia The metal beverage packaging, Europe/Asia, segment includes the production and sale of metal beverage container products manufactured and sold in Europe and Asia as well as plastic containers manufactured and sold in Asia. This segment accounted for 23 percent of consolidated net sales in 2006 (24 percent in 2005). Ball Packaging Europe, which represents an estimated 29 percent of the total European metal beverage container manufacturing capacity, has manufacturing plants located in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Poland and Serbia. Due to strong demand, segment can shipments were more than 9 percent higher in 2006 than in 2005. Higher segment sales volumes were aided by favorable European weather and Germany hosting the World Cup soccer championship during June and July 2006, as well as by continued growth in the China market. Segment sales, which grew 12 percent in 2006, also benefited from the strength of the euro. Segment sales were approximately 9 percent higher in 2005 than in 2004 primarily as a result of an increase in sales volumes. The slow return of the can to the German market, as a result of the mandatory deposit legislation previously reported on, is being more than offset by stronger demand elsewhere in Europe, including southern and eastern Europe. We expect PRC demand for aluminum beverage cans to grow in the coming years, as both multinational and Chinese beverage fillers expand their markets. The construction of a new beverage can plant in Belgrade, Serbia, was completed near the end of the second quarter of 2005 to serve the growing demand for beverage cans in southern and eastern Europe. The plant became fully operational during the third quarter of 2005. The Serbian plant was constructed to accommodate a second can production line and a can end manufacturing module for future growth. Earnings in the segment were $268.7 million in 2006, $180.5 million in 2005 and $195.1 million in 2004. Segment earnings in 2006 included a $75.5 million property insurance gain related to a fire at the companys Hassloch, Germany, metal beverage can plant (further details are provided in the Recent Developments section). The third quarter of 2006 also included a gain of $5.5 million related to the change in an estimated liability. The fourth quarter of 2005 included a $9.3 million gain primarily resulting from the final settlement of all tax obligations related to liquidated China operations for amounts less than originally estimated. First quarter 2005 segment earnings included a $3.4 million expense for the write off of the remaining carrying value of an equity investment in the PRC. Earnings in 2004 included income of $13.7 million related to the realization of proceeds on assets in the PRC being in excess of amounts previously estimated, and costs of liquidation being less than anticipated in a prior year business consolidation charge. Segment earnings in 2006 were higher than in 2005 due to the property insurance gain, higher volumes, price recovery initiatives and effective manufacturing and selling, general and administrative cost controls; partially offset by higher raw material, freight and energy costs, and price/cost compression in the PRC. Higher material, energy and transportation costs, as well as second and third quarter start up costs related to a line conversion in the Netherlands and the new Serbia plant, had a negative effect on 2005 segment earnings compared to 2004. Partially offsetting these higher costs were lower selling, general and administrative costs. Page 24 of 98 On April 1, 2006, a fire in the metal beverage can plant in Hassloch, Germany, damaged the majority of the building, machinery and equipment. The property insurance proceeds recorded for the year ended December 31, 2006, which are based on replacement cost, were 86.3 million ($109.3 million), of which 26 million ($32.4 million) was received in April 2006, 22.7 million ($28.9 million) was received in October 2006 and the remainder of 37.6 million ($49.6 million), which was recorded in other long term assets, was received in January 2007. A 26.7 million ($33.8 million) fixed asset write down was recorded to reflect the estimated impairment of the assets damaged as a result of the fire. As a result, a gain of 59.6 million ($75.5 million pretax) was recorded in the 2006 consolidated statement of earnings to reflect the difference between the net book value of the impaired assets and the property insurance proceeds. An additional 15 million ($19 million), 13 million ($16.5 million) and 12 million ($15.5 million) were recorded in cost of sales in the second, third and fourth quarters, respectively, for insurance recoveries related to business interruption costs, as well as 11.3 million ($14.3 million) to offset clean up costs. An additional 27 million of business interruption recoveries has been agreed upon with the insurance carrier and will be recognized in 2007. In June 2006 the company announced its intention to rebuild the Hassloch plant with two steel lines and to add an aluminum line in its Hermsdorf, Germany, plant. All three lines are expected to be operational during the second quarter of 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we acquired the minority interest in our two PRC high density plastic joint ventures for $4.6 million in cash. During the fourth quarter of 2004, Sanshui Jianlibao FTB Packaging Limited (Sanshui JFP), a 35 percent owned PRC joint venture, experienced a greater than customary seasonal production slowdown caused by cash flow difficulties. In response, we recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts in respect of Sanshui JFPs receivable from the joint venture partner for $15.2 million, which was included in the 2004 consolidated statement of earnings as equity in results of affiliates. Information learned late in the first quarter of 2005 led the company to record expense of $3.4 million to write off the remaining carrying value of this investment. Earnings of $9.3 million and $13.7 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, were recognized as PRC restructuring activities that commenced in 2001 were completed, resulting in realization on assets in excess of amounts previously estimated, as well as costs incurred being less than estimated, including settlement of tax matters. All costs and transactions related to the PRC restructuring have been concluded. Additional details regarding business consolidation activities are available in Note 4 accompanying the consolidated financial statements included within Item 8 of this Annual Report. Metal Food and Household Products Packaging, Americas The metal food and household products packaging, Americas, segment consists of operations located in the U.S., Canada and Argentina. With the acquisition of U.S. Can (discussed in the Recent Developments section), the segment added to its metal food can manufacturing the production of aerosol cans, paint cans, certain plastic containers and custom and specialty cans. Segment sales in 2006 comprised 18 percent of consolidated net sales (14 percent in 2005) and were 44 percent higher than 2005 sales. The primary reason for the increase was the acquisition of U.S. Can. The favorable impact on 2006 sales of the pass through of higher raw material costs was offset by lower third quarter food can volumes. Sales in 2005 were 6 percent higher than in 2004, reflecting higher prices from the pass through of higher raw material costs. Sales volumes were flat compared to 2004 levels including, in the first quarter of 2005, the inclusion of a full quarters results from our Oakdale, California, facility, which was acquired in March 2004. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, we were able to pass through the majority of the steel price increases and surcharges levied by steel producers. Based on publicly available trade information, we estimate our 2006 shipments of more than 6 billion steel food containers and 1.7 billion aerosol containers to be approximately 20 percent and 53 percent of total U.S. and Canadian metal food container and steel aerosol container shipments, respectively. Segment earnings were $6 million in 2006 compared to $19.1 million in 2005 and $46.4 million in 2004. The fourth quarter of 2006 included a pretax charge of $33.8 million, primarily for the closure of a metal food can manufacturing plant in Burlington, Ontario, as part of the realignment of the segment following the U.S. Can acquisition (discussed in more detail below). The first six months of 2006 included a net pretax charge of $1.7 million primarily related to the shut down of a metal food can manufacturing line in the Whitby, Ontario, plant. Page 25 of 98 The fourth quarter of 2005 included a pretax charge of $4.6 million ($3.1 million after tax) for pension, severance and other employee benefit costs related to a reduction in force in the Burlington plant. The second quarter of 2005 included a pretax charge of $8.8 million ($5.9 million after tax) for the closure of a three piece food can manufacturing plant in Quebec. The Quebec plant was closed and ceased operations in the third quarter of 2005 and an agreement was reached to sell the land and building, which resulted in the second quarter charge being offset by a $2.2 million gain ($1.5 million after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2006 to adjust the plant to net realizable value. Higher sales volumes related to the U.S. Can acquisition helped improve segment earnings in the last nine months of 2006, despite the negative impact of lower food can volumes attributable to the loss of a customer in late 2005 and a poor salmon harvest in 2006. Additionally, segment earnings in 2006 were reduced by purchase accounting adjustments of $6.1 million, which increased cost of sales due to inventory valuations associated with the acquired U.S. Can finished goods inventory. Contributing to lower segment earnings in 2005 compared to 2004 were higher freight costs from fuel surcharges and higher other direct material and utility costs. Energy, freight and other direct material costs were $16 million higher in 2005 than in 2004, partially offset by efficiency gains, cost controls and lower selling, general and administrative costs in 2005. While pricing pressures continue on all of our raw materials, other direct materials and freight and utility costs, we continue to work with both customers and suppliers to maintain our volumes, as well as to preserve our margins. In October 2006 the company announced plans to close two manufacturing facilities in North America by the end of 2006 as part of the realignment of the metal food and household products packaging, Americas, segment following the acquisition of U.S. Can earlier in the year. The company closed a leased facility in Alliance, Ohio, which was one of 10 manufacturing locations acquired from U.S. Can, and a plant in Burlington, Ontario, which was part of the metal food can operations prior to the U.S. Can acquisition. A pretax charge of $33.8 million ($27.5 million after tax) was recorded in the fourth quarter, primarily related to the Burlington closure for employee termination and pension costs, plant decommissioning costs and fixed asset impairment. The closure of the Ohio plant has been treated as an opening balance sheet item. The estimated costs of the closures will be cash flow neutral after tax benefits and anticipated proceeds from the sale of fixed assets. The company continues to evaluate the segments manufacturing structure and expects to identify other opportunities to improve efficiencies. Additional details regarding business consolidation activities are available in Note 4 accompanying the consolidated financial statements included within Item 8 of this Annual Report. Plastic Packaging, Americas The plastic packaging, Americas, segment consists of operations located in the U.S. and Canada which manufacture polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene plastic container products used mainly in beverage and food packaging. Segment sales in 2006 comprised 10 percent of consolidated sales (8 percent in 2005) and increased 32 percent compared to 2005 due largely to the plant and other asset acquisitions from Alcan and higher PET bottle volumes. We continue to focus PET development efforts in the custom hot fill, beer, wine, flavored alcoholic beverage and specialty container markets, and we are adding specialty container production capacity to accommodate new demand. In the food and specialty area, development efforts are focused on custom markets as well. The 22 percent sales increase in 2005 compared to 2004 was largely due to the pass through to our customers of higher resin prices, as well as 7.5 percent higher sales volumes in 2005 compared to 2004 as a result of higher demand for barrier and heat set containers that provide longer shelf life for products, combined with strong demand for plastic water bottles. Although only a small percentage of our total volume, sales of juice, sports drink and beer containers increased in 2006. These sales are expected to grow in the future as more focus is placed on such specialty markets and the development of our Heat Tek(TM) business. We estimate our 2006 shipments of more than 5.7 billion PET plastic containers to be approximately 9 percent of total U.S. and Canadian PET container shipments. In addition, the plastic packaging, Americas, segment produced more than 640 million food and specialty containers during 2006. Page 26 of 98 Segment earnings were $24.7 million in 2006 compared to $16.7 million in 2005 and $9.6 million in 2004. Segment earnings in 2006 were higher than in 2005 largely due to the incremental sales from the Alcan acquisition, but were partially offset by energy cost increases of approximately $6 million, the timing of resin cost increases and costs incurred for a litigation claim that was favorably resolved in July 2006. Earnings in the second quarter of 2006 also included purchase accounting adjustments of $1.2 million, which increased cost of sales due to the valuation of inventories associated with the acquired Alcan finished goods inventory. In 2007 the plastic packaging, Americas, segment will include the sales and earnings of a plastic pail business which was recorded in the 2006 operating results of the metal food and household products packaging, Americas, segment. The improvement in earnings in 2005 over 2004 was the result of higher sales and production volumes and growth in specialty products. Partially offsetting these improvements in 2005 were higher utility costs. Segment earnings in 2004 were reduced by $1.3 million, primarily related to costs associated with the relocation of the plastics offices and research and development facility from Atlanta, Georgia, to Colorado. Earnings in 2004 were also negatively impacted by continued pricing pressures on plastic containers for carbonated soft drink and water customers. Aerospace and Technologies Aerospace and technologies segment sales represented 10 percent of 2006 consolidated net sales (12 percent in 2005) and were 3 percent lower than in 2005. Sales in 2005 were 6 percent higher than in 2004. The lower 2006 sales were largely due to contracts being completed during the period, as well as the impact of government funding reductions and program delays. Higher sales in 2005 compared to 2004 resulted from a combination of newly awarded contracts and additions to previously awarded contracts. The aerospace and technologies business won a number of large, strategic contracts and delivered a considerable amount of sophisticated space and defense instrumentation throughout the three year period. Segment earnings were $50 million in 2006, $54.7 million in 2005 and $48.7 million in 2004. The first quarter of 2005 included expense of $3.8 million for the write down to net realizable value of an equity investment in an aerospace company. This investment was sold in October 2005 for approximately its carrying value. Earnings in 2006 were negatively affected by the lower sales due to program delays and unfavorable contract mix. The improvement in 2005 earnings compared to 2004 was primarily the result of higher sales and improved program performance. Some of the segments high profile contracts include: WorldView 1 and WorldView 2, advanced commercial remote sensing satellites; the James Webb Space Telescope, a successor to the Hubble Space Telescope; the Space Based Space Surveillance System, which will detect and track space objects such as satellites and orbital debris; NPOESS, the next generation satellite weather monitoring system; and a number of antennas for the Joint Strike Fighter. Sales to the U.S. government, either directly as a prime contractor or indirectly as a subcontractor, represented 90 percent of segment sales in 2006, 87 percent in 2005 and 82 percent in 2004. Contracted backlog for the aerospace and technologies segment at December 31, 2006 and 2005, was $886 million and $761 million, respectively. Year to year comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of the trend of future operations. Additional Segment Information For additional information regarding the companys segments, see the summary of business segment information in Note 2 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. The charges recorded for business consolidation activities were based on estimates by Ball management, actuaries and other independent parties and were developed from information available at the time. If actual outcomes vary from the estimates, the differences will be reflected in current period earnings in the consolidated statement of earnings and identified as business consolidation gains and losses. Additional details about our business consolidation activities and associated costs are provided in Note 4 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. Page 27 of 98 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $287.2 million, $233.8 million and $268.8 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in SG&A expenses in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily the result of $20 million of incremental SG&A (after realized synergies) from the acquired U.S. Can operations, a $5.8 million out of period adjustment (discussed below), higher expense of $6.3 million associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), $2 million for higher rates associated with the companys receivables sales agreement, $5 million of increased legal fees related to patent litigation, $6.7 million for an initial mark to market adjustment to one of the companys deferred compensation stock plans due to a plan amendment and normal compensation and benefit increases. Expenses in 2005 were lower than 2004 in all areas of the company due largely to lower employee compensation and benefit costs, including the companys deposit share program and economic value added based incentive compensation plans. These lower costs were partially offset by higher pension costs, higher accounts receivable securitization fees and the write down of the PRC and aerospace equity investments in the first quarter of 2005. Subsequent to the issuance of its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, the company determined that certain foreign currency exchange losses had been inadvertently deferred for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003. Since the amounts were not material, individually or in the aggregate, to any previously issued financial statements or to our full year results of operations for 2006, a cumulative $5.8 million out of period adjustment was included in SG&A expenses in the first quarter of 2006. On October 26, 2005, Balls board of directors approved the accelerated vesting of the out of the money, unvested nonqualified stock options granted in April 2005. The acceleration affected approximately 665,000 options granted to approximately 290 employees at an exercise price of $39.74. The accelerated vesting of these nonqualified options allowed the company to eliminate approximately $5 million of pretax expense (approximately $3 million after tax) combined for 2006 to 2009. Interest and Taxes Consolidated interest expense was $134.4 million in 2006; $116.4 million, including debt refinancing costs of $19.3 million, in 2005 and $103.7 million in 2004. The higher expense in 2006 was primarily due to the additional borrowings used to finance the acquisitions of U.S. Can and the Alcan assets. The lower expense in 2005 compared to 2004 was due to lower average borrowings and higher capitalized interest. The debt refinancing costs in 2005 of $19.3 million were costs associated with the refinancing of the companys senior credit facilities and the redemption in the last half of 2005 of the companys 7.75% senior notes, which were due in August 2006. Balls consolidated effective income tax rate for 2006 was 29.4 percent compared to 29.2 percent in 2005 and 32.2 percent in 2004. While the effective tax rates for 2006 and 2005 are similar, the 2006 rate was impacted by a one time tax benefit of $8.1 million associated with a foreign exchange loss as a result of the change in the functional currency of a European subsidiary in the local statutory accounts. The one time benefit was somewhat offset by a higher foreign tax rate differential due to taxation of the German property insurance gain at the marginal rate of 39% and a valuation allowance on a Canadian net operating loss resulting from the 2006 business consolidation costs. The 2005 rate was impacted by the tax benefit recorded on the repatriation of foreign earnings (see further discussion below) plus the tax benefit on business consolidation costs applied at the higher marginal rate. The decrease in the 2005 effective tax rate compared to 2004 is primarily due to the net tax benefit recorded on the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (Jobs Act), the tax benefit on business consolidation costs applied at the marginal tax rate, increased research and development tax credits and the manufacturing deduction effective in 2005 under the Jobs Act. (Further details of the amounts repatriated under the Jobs Act are available in Note 13 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report.) These benefits were somewhat offset by the fact that no tax benefit was provided in respect of the equity investment write downs in the first quarter of 2005. The $3.8 million write down of the aerospace investment is not tax deductible while the realization of tax deductibility of the $3.4 million PRC write down, which will be a capital loss, is not reasonably assured as the company does not have, nor does it anticipate, any capital gains to offset the capital losses. Page 28 of 98 In connection with the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) examination of Balls consolidated income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2004, the IRS has proposed to disallow Balls deductions of interest expense incurred on loans under a company owned life insurance plan that has been in place for more than 20 years. Ball believes that its interest deductions will be sustained as filed and, therefore, no provision for loss has been recorded. The total potential liability for the audit years 1999 through 2004, unaudited year 2005 and an estimate of the impact on 2006 is approximately $31 million, excluding related interest. The IRS has withdrawn its proposed adjustments for any penalties. See Note 13 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report. Results of Equity Affiliates Equity in the earnings of affiliates in 2006 is primarily attributable to our 50 percent ownership in packaging investments in the U.S. and Brazil. Earnings in 2004 included the results of a minority owned aerospace business, which was sold in October 2005, and a $15.2 million loss representing Balls share of a provision for doubtful accounts relating to its 35 percent interest in Sanshui JFP (discussed above in Metal Beverage Packaging, Europe/Asia). After consideration of the PRC loss, earnings were $14.7 million in 2006 compared to $15.5 million in 2005 and $15.8 million in 2004. CRITICAL AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For information regarding the companys critical and significant accounting policies, as well as recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows and Capital Expenditures Cash flows from operating activities were $401.4 million in 2006 compared to $558.8 million in 2005 and $535.9 million in 2004. Management internally uses a free cash flow measure: (1) to evaluate the companys operating results, (2) for planning purposes, (3) to evaluate strategic investments and (4) to evaluate the companys ability to incur and service debt. Free cash flow is not a defined term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and it should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as cash flow from operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment (capital spending). Free cash flow is typically derived directly from the companys cash flow statements; however, it may be adjusted for items that affect comparability between periods. An example of such an item included in 2006 is the property insurance proceeds for the replacement of the fire damaged assets in our Hassloch, Germany, plant, which is included in capital spending amounts. Based on this, our consolidated free cash flow is summarized as follows: ($ in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Cash flows from operating activities $ 401.4 $ 558.8 $ 535.9 Capital spending (279.6 ) (291.7 ) (196.0 ) Proceeds for replacement of fire damaged assets 61.3 Free cash flow $ 183.1 $ 267.1 $ 339.9 Cash flows from operating activities in 2006 were negatively affected by higher cash pension funding and higher working capital levels compared to the prior year. The higher working capital was a combination of higher than planned raw material inventory levels, higher income tax payments and higher accounts receivable balances, the latter resulting primarily from the repayment of a portion of the accounts receivable securitization program and late payments from customers in Europe. Management expects the increase in working capital to be temporary and that working capital levels will return to normal levels by the end of the first half of 2007. Page 29 of 98 Cash flow in 2005 compared to 2004 was negatively impacted by higher cash taxes. This resulted in a decrease in deferred income taxes payable of $51.6 million in 2005 compared to an estimated increase in deferred taxes of $47 million in 2004. The primary causes of the increase in current income taxes and decrease in deferred income taxes were the reduction in 2005 of tax deductible pension costs versus 2004, the impact in 2005 of the repatriation of foreign earnings and a reduction of tax versus book depreciation expense as tax depreciation was accelerated in prior years, primarily due to bonus tax depreciation permitted in the tax laws after September 11, 2001. Cash flows from operating activities were positively affected in 2005 by lower accounts receivable, higher accounts payable and lower pension contributions. Based on information currently available, we estimate cash flows from operating activities for 2007 to be approximately $600 million, capital spending (net of property insurance recoveries) to be approximately $250 million and free cash flow to be in the $350 million range. Capital spending of $218.3 million (net of $61.3 million in insurance recoveries) in 2006 was below depreciation and amortization expense of $252.6 million. We continue to invest capital in our best performing operations, including projects to increase custom can capabilities, improve beverage can end making productivity and convert lines from steel to aluminum in Europe, as well as expenditures in the aerospace and technologies segment. Debt Facilities and Refinancing Interest bearing debt at December 31, 2006, increased $862 million to $2,451.7 million from $1,589.7 million at December 31, 2005. This increase includes the issuance by Ball Corporation in March 2006 of $450 million of 6.625% senior notes due in 2018 and a $500 million increase in bank debt under Ball Corporations senior credit facilities put in place in the fourth quarter of 2005. The proceeds from these financings were used to refinance existing U.S. Can debt at lower interest rates, acquire certain net assets of Alcan and reduce seasonal working capital debt. Other than acquisition related debt, the 2006 debt increase from 2005 was primarily attributed to changes in foreign exchange rates. At December 31, 2006, $675 million was available under the companys multi currency revolving credit facilities. The company also had $329 million of short term uncommitted credit facilities available at the end of the year, of which $140.1 million was outstanding. On October 13, 2005, Ball refinanced its senior secured credit facilities and during the third and fourth quarters of 2005, Ball redeemed its 7.75% senior notes due August 2006 primarily through the drawdown of funds under the new credit facilities. The refinancing and redemption resulted in a pretax debt refinancing charge of $19.3 million ($12.3 million after tax) to reflect the call premium associated with the senior notes and the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs. During the first quarter of 2004, Ball repaid 31 million ($38 million) of its previous euro denominated Term Loan B and reduced the interest rate by 50 basis points. During the fourth quarter of 2003, Ball repaid $160 million of its previous U.S. dollar denominated Term Loan B and 25 million of its previous euro denominated Term Loan B. At the time of the early repayment, the interest rate on the U.S. portion of the Term Loan B was reduced by 50 basis points. Interest expense during the first quarter of 2004 included $0.5 million for the write off of the unamortized financing costs associated with the repaid loans. The company has a receivables sales agreement that provides for the ongoing, revolving sale of a designated pool of trade accounts receivable of Balls North American packaging operations, up to $225 million. The agreement qualifies as off balance sheet financing under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140, as amended by SFAS No. 156. Net funds received from the sale of the accounts receivable totaled $201.3 million and $210 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and are reflected as a reduction of accounts receivable in the consolidated balance sheets. The company was not in default of any loan agreement at December 31, 2006, and has met all payment obligations. The U.S. note agreements, bank credit agreement and industrial development revenue bond agreements contain certain restrictions relating to dividends, investments, financial ratios, guarantees and the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Page 30 of 98 Additional details about the companys receivables sales agreement and debt are available in Notes 6 and 12, respectively, accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. Other Liquidity Items Cash payments required for long term debt maturities, rental payments under noncancellable operating leases and purchase obligations in effect at December 31, 2006, are summarized in the following table: Payments Due By Period (a) ($ in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years Long term debt $ 2,301.6 $ 38.5 $ 278.4 $ 972.9 $ 1,011.8 Capital lease obligations 7.6 2.7 2.4 0.4 2.1 Interest payments on long term debt (b) 826.5 138.8 259.4 204.8 223.5 Operating leases 185.9 45.0 58.5 38.7 43.7 Purchase obligations (c) 7,450.4 2,682.5 3,169.4 1,524.6 73.9 Total payments on contractual obligations $ 10,772.0 $ 2,907.5 $ 3,768.1 $ 2,741.4 $ 1,355.0 (a) Amounts reported in local currencies have been translated at the year end exchange rates. (b) For variable rate facilities, amounts are based on interest rates in effect at year end. (c) The companys purchase obligations include contracted amounts for aluminum, steel, plastic resin and other direct materials. Also included are commitments for purchases of natural gas and electricity, aerospace and technologies contracts and other less significant items. In cases where variable prices and or usage are involved, managements best estimates have been used. Depending on the circumstances, early termination of the contracts may not result in penalties and, therefore, actual payments could vary significantly. Contributions to the companys defined benefit pension plans, not including the unfunded German plans, are expected to be $69.1 million in 2007. This estimate may change based on plan asset performance. Benefit payments related to these plans are expected to be $62.6 million, $65.1 million, $68.9 million, $73.9 million and $75.1 million for the years ending December 31, 2007 through 2011, respectively, and $436.7 million combined for 2012 through 2016. Payments to participants in the unfunded German plans are expected to be $24.6 million, $25.1 million, $25.5 million, $25.9 million and $26.1 million in the years 2007 through 2011, respectively, and a total of $136.6 million thereafter. We reduced our share repurchase program in 2006 to $45.7 million, net of issuances, compared to $358.1 million net repurchases in 2005 and $50 million in 2004. The net repurchases in 2006 did not include a forward contract entered into in December 2006 for the repurchase of 1,200,000 shares. The contract was settled on January 5, 2007, for $51.9 million in cash. In 2007 we expect to repurchase approximately $175 million, net of issuances, and to reduce debt levels by more than $125 million. Annual cash dividends paid on common stock were 40 cents per share in 2006 and 2005 and 35 cents per share in 2004. Total dividends paid were $41 million in 2006, $42.5 million in 2005 and $38.9 million in 2004. Page 31 of 98 Contingencies The company is subject to various risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business due, in part, to the competitive nature of the industries in which we participate, our operations in developing markets outside the U.S., changing commodity prices for the materials used in the manufacture of our products and changing capital markets. Where practicable, we attempt to reduce these risks and uncertainties through the establishment of risk management policies and procedures, including, at times, the use of derivative financial instruments as explained in Item 7A of this report. From time to time, the company is subject to routine litigation incident to its business. Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has designated Ball as a potentially responsible party, along with numerous other companies, for the cleanup of several hazardous waste sites. Our information at this time does not indicate that these matters will have a material adverse effect upon the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the company. Due to political and legal uncertainties in Germany, no nationwide system for returning beverage containers was in place at the time a mandatory deposit was imposed in January 2003, and nearly all retailers stopped carrying beverages in non refillable containers. We responded to the resulting lower demand for beverage cans with several measures including reducing capacity and converting production lines from steel to aluminum to facilitate exports from Germany to other European countries. Since May 1, 2006, all retailers have been required to redeem all returned one way containers as long as they sell such containers. Many retailers in Germany have begun the process of implementing a returnable system for one way containers. The retailers and the filling and packaging industries have formed a committee to design a nationwide recollection system and several retailers have ordered and installed reverse vending machines in order to streamline the recollection system. One way packaging sales by German retailers have increased significantly since May 1, 2006 (albeit off a low base). We believe it will take some time to recover from the significant decrease experienced beginning in 2003. Usage will increase as one way collection systems are more fully developed and consumers become educated regarding the systems and the reintroduction of one way packaging. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Future events could affect these estimates. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report for a summary of the companys critical and significant accounting policies. The U.S. and European economies have experienced minor general inflation during the past several years. Management believes that evaluation of Balls performance during the periods covered by these consolidated financial statements should be based upon historical financial statements. As described in Note 13 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report, the IRS has proposed to disallow Balls deductions of interest expense for the tax years 2000 through 2004 incurred on loans under a company owned life insurance plan that was established in 1986. Ball has disputed the IRSs claims and the company believes the interest deductions will be sustained as filed. Page 32 of 98 Forward Looking Statements The company has made or implied certain forward looking statements in this report which are made as of the end of the time frame covered by this report. These forward looking statements represent the companys goals, and results could vary materially from those expressed or implied. From time to time we also provide oral or written forward looking statements in other materials we release to the public. As time passes, the relevance and accuracy of forward looking statements may change. Some factors that could cause the companys actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements include, but are not limited to: fluctuation in customer and consumer growth, demand and preferences; loss of one or more major customers or changes to contracts with one or more customers; insufficient production capacity; overcapacity in foreign and domestic metal and plastic container industry production facilities and its impact on pricing; failure to achieve anticipated productivity improvements or production cost reductions, including those associated with capital expenditures such as our beverage can end project; changes in climate and weather; fruit, vegetable and fishing yields; power and natural resource costs; difficulty in obtaining supplies and energy, such as gas and electric power; availability and cost of raw materials, as well as the recent significant increases in resin, steel, aluminum and energy costs, and the ability or inability to include or pass on to customers changes in raw material costs; changes in the pricing of the companys products and services; competition in pricing and the possible decrease in, or loss of, sales resulting therefrom; insufficient or reduced cash flow; transportation costs; the number and timing of the purchases of the companys common shares; regulatory action or federal and state legislation including mandated corporate governance and financial reporting laws; the German mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging legislation such as recycling laws; interest rates affecting our debt; labor strikes; increases and trends in various employee benefits and labor costs, including pension, medical and health care costs; rates of return projected and earned on assets and discount rates used to measure future obligations and expenses of the companys defined benefit retirement plans; boycotts; antitrust, intellectual property, consumer and other litigation; maintenance and capital expenditures; goodwill impairment; changes in generally accepted accounting principles or their interpretation; accounting changes; local economic conditions; the authorization, funding, availability and returns of contracts for the aerospace and technologies segment and the nature and continuation of those contracts and related services provided thereunder; delays, extensions and technical uncertainties, as well as schedules of performance associated with such segment contracts; international business and market risks such as the devaluation or revaluation of certain currencies and the activities of foreign subsidiaries; international business risks (including foreign exchange rates and activities of foreign subsidiaries) in Europe and particularly in developing countries such as the PRC and Brazil; changes in the foreign exchange rates of the U.S. dollar against the European euro, British pound, Polish zloty, Serbian dinar, Hong Kong dollar, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Brazilian real and Argentine peso, and in the foreign exchange rate of the European euro against the British pound, Polish zloty and Serbian dinar; terrorist activity or war that disrupts the companys production or supply; regulatory action or laws including tax, environmental and workplace safety; technological developments and innovations; successful or unsuccessful acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures and the integration activities associated therewith; changes to unaudited results due to statutory audits of our financial statements or managements evaluation of the companys internal controls over financial reporting; and loss contingencies related to income and other tax matters, including those arising from audits performed by U.S. and foreign tax authorities. If the company is unable to achieve its goals, then the companys actual performance could vary materially from those goals expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. The company currently does not intend to publicly update forward looking statements except as it deems necessary in quarterly or annual earnings reports. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10 K, 10 Q and 8 K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Page 33 of 98 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instruments and Risk Management In the ordinary course of business, we employ established risk management policies and procedures to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currencies and prices of the companys common stock in regard to common share repurchases. Although the instruments utilized involve varying degrees of credit, market and interest risk, the counterparties to the agreements are expected to perform fully under the terms of the agreements. We have estimated our market risk exposure using sensitivity analysis. Market risk exposure has been defined as the changes in fair value of derivative instruments, financial instruments and commodity positions. To test the sensitivity of our market risk exposure, we have estimated the changes in fair value of market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in market prices or rates. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. Commodity Price Risk We manage our commodity price risk in connection with market price fluctuations of aluminum primarily by entering into container sales contracts which generally include aluminum based pricing terms that consider price fluctuations under our commercial supply contracts for aluminum purchases. Such terms generally include a fixed price, floating price or an upper limit to the aluminum component pricing. This matched pricing affects substantially all of our metal beverage packaging, Americas, net sales. We also, at times, use certain derivative instruments such as option and forward contracts as cash flow and fair value hedges of commodity price risk where there is not a pass through arrangement in the sales contract. Most of the plastic packaging, Americas, sales contracts negotiated through the end of 2006 include provisions to pass through resin cost changes. As a result, we believe we have minimal, if any, exposure related to changes in the cost of plastic resin. Most of our metal food and household products packaging, Americas, sales contracts negotiated through the end of 2006 either include provisions permitting us to pass through some or all steel cost changes we incur, or they incorporate annually negotiated steel costs. We anticipate that we will be able to pass through the majority of the steel price increases that occur through the end of 2007. In Europe and Asia, the company manages aluminum and steel raw material commodity price risks through annual and long term contracts for the purchase of the materials, as well as certain sales of containers, that reduce the companys exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices within the current year. These purchase and sales contracts include fixed price, floating and pass through pricing arrangements. We also use forward and option contracts as cash flow hedges to minimize the companys exposure to significant price changes for those sales contracts where there is not a pass through arrangement. Considering the effects of derivative instruments, the markets ability to accept price increases and the companys commodity price exposures, a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the companys steel, aluminum and resin prices could result in an estimated $16 million after tax reduction in net earnings over a one year period. Additionally, if foreign currency exchange rates were to change adversely by 10 percent, we estimate there could be a $10.2 million after tax reduction in net earnings over a one year period for foreign currency exposures on raw materials. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates. Sensitivity to foreign currency exposures related to metal increased over prior years due to an increase in metal purchases and related payables at our foreign operations, which are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. The company is also exposed to fluctuations in prices for utilities such as natural gas and electricity, as well as the cost of diesel fuel as a component of freight cost. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in our utility prices could result in an estimated $8.4 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in our diesel fuel surcharge could result in an estimated $1.9 million after tax reduction of net earnings over the same period. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates. Page 34 of 98 Interest Rate Risk Our objective in managing exposure to interest rate changes is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we use a variety of interest rate swaps and options to manage our mix of floating and fixed rate debt. Interest rate instruments held by the company at December 31, 2006 and 2005, included pay fixed interest rate swaps. Pay fixed swaps effectively convert variable rate obligations to fixed rate instruments. Based on our interest rate exposure at December 31, 2006, assumed floating rate debt levels throughout 2007 and the effects of derivative instruments, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates could result in an estimated $9.1 million after tax reduction in net earnings over a one year period. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates and the timing of these changes. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to protect foreign cash flows and earnings associated with foreign exchange rate changes through the use of cash flow hedges. In addition, we manage foreign earnings translation volatility through the use of foreign currency options. Our foreign currency translation risk results from the European euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi, Brazilian real, Argentine peso and Serbian dinar. We face currency exposures in our global operations as a result of purchasing raw materials in U.S. dollars and, to a lesser extent, in other currencies. Sales contracts are negotiated with customers to reflect cost changes and, where there is not a foreign exchange pass through arrangement, the company uses forward and option contracts to manage foreign currency exposures. Considering the companys derivative financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2006, and the currency exposures, a hypothetical 10 percent reduction in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. dollar could result in an estimated $19.2 million after tax reduction in net earnings over a one year period. This amount includes the $10.2 million currency exposure discussed above in the Commodity Price Risk section. This hypothetical adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates would also reduce our forecasted average debt balance by $75.7 million. Actual changes in market prices or rates may differ from hypothetical changes. Common Share Repurchases In connection with the companys ongoing share repurchases, the company periodically sells put options which give the purchasers of those options the right to sell shares of the companys common stock to the company on specified dates at specified prices upon the exercise of those options. Our objective in selling put options is to lower the average purchase price of acquired shares. There were no put option contracts outstanding at the end of 2006. Page 35 of 98 
 
