Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Ball Corporation and its subsidiaries are referred to collectively as Ball or the company or we or our in the following discussion and analysis. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Ball Corporation is one of the worlds leading suppliers of metal and plastic packaging to the beverage, food and household products industries. Our packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are manufactured in plants around the world. We also supply aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers. We sell our packaging products primarily to major beverage and food companies and producers of household products with which we have developed long term customer relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and our large number of long term supply contracts. While we have diversified our customer base, we do sell a majority of our packaging products to relatively few major companies in North America, Europe, the Peoples Republic of China (PRC) and Argentina, as do our equity joint ventures in Brazil, the U.S. and the PRC. We also purchase raw materials from relatively few suppliers. Because of our customer and supplier concentration, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the loss of a major customer or supplier or a change in a supply agreement with a major customer or supplier, although our long term relationships and contracts mitigate these risks. In the rigid packaging industry, sales and earnings can be improved by reducing costs, developing new products, expanding volume and increasing prices. In 2009 we expect to complete a project to upgrade and streamline our North American beverage can end manufacturing capabilities, a project that in 2007 began to generate productivity gains and cost reductions in the metal beverage packaging, Americas, segment. While the U.S. and Canadian beverage container manufacturing industry is relatively mature, the European, Asian and Brazilian beverage can markets are growing and are expected to continue to grow. We are capitalizing on this growth by increasing capacity in some of our European can manufacturing facilities and by announcing plans to establish a plant in India. To better position the company in the European market, the capacity from the fire damaged Hassloch, Germany, plant was replaced with a mix of steel beverage can manufacturing capacity in the Hassloch plant and aluminum beverage can manufacturing capacity in the companys Hermsdorf, Germany, plant. All three lines were in commercial production by the end of the second quarter of 2007. Additionally, the company has announced plans for speeding up certain lines in Europe and building a new plant in Poland. We are also considering additional can and end manufacturing capacity there and in the PRC. The company regularly evaluates expansion opportunities in growing international markets, including existing and developing markets in Europe, the PRC, Brazil and other parts of the world. We recently announced our intention to build a beverage can manufacturing plant in India, as well as the new plant in Poland to meet the rapidly growing demand for beverage cans there and in central and eastern Europe. We also recently announced the companys participation in a one line metal beverage can plant in Brazil. This plant will be owned by Balls unconsolidated 50 percent owned joint venture, Latapack Ball Embalagens, Ltda., and its construction will be financed by cash flows from the joint venture. As part of our packaging strategy, we are focused on developing and marketing new and existing products that meet the needs of our customers and the ultimate consumer. These innovations include new shapes, sizes, opening features and other functional benefits of both metal and plastic packaging. This packaging development activity helps us maintain and expand our supply positions with major beverage, food and household products customers. As part of this focus, we are installing a new 24 ounce can production line in our Monticello, Indiana, facility expected to be operational in mid 2008. Balls consolidated earnings are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We attempt to mitigate this exposure through the use of derivative financial instruments, as discussed in Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk within Item 7A of this report. Page 22 of 94 The primary customers for the products and services provided by our aerospace and technologies segment are U.S. government agencies or their prime contractors. It is possible that federal budget reductions and priorities, or changes in agency budgets, could limit future funding and new contract awards or delay or prolong contract performance. We recognize sales under long term contracts in the aerospace and technologies segment using the cost to cost, percentage of completion method of accounting. Our present contract mix consists of approximately 70 percent cost type contracts, which are billed at our costs plus an agreed upon and or earned profit component, while the remainder are fixed price contracts. We include time and material contracts in the fixed price category because such contracts typically provide for the sale of engineering labor at fixed hourly rates. Failure to be awarded certain key contracts could adversely affect segment performance during 2008 compared to 2007. Throughout the period of contract performance, we regularly reevaluate and, if necessary, revise our estimates of total contract revenue, total contract cost and progress toward completion. Because of contract payment schedules, limitations on funding and other contract terms, our sales and accounts receivable for this segment include amounts that have been earned but not yet billed. Management uses various measures to evaluate company performance. The primary financial metric we use is economic value added (tax effected operating earnings, as defined by the company, less a charge for net operating assets employed). Our goal is to increase economic value added on an annual basis. Other financial metrics we use are earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT); earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA); diluted earnings per share; operating cash flow and free cash flow (generally defined by the company as cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures). These financial measures may be adjusted at times for items that affect comparability between periods. Nonfinancial measures in the packaging segments include production efficiency and spoilage rates, quality control figures, environmental, health and safety statistics and production and shipment volumes. Additional measures used to evaluate performance in the aerospace and technologies segment include contract revenue realization, award and incentive fees realized, proposal win rates and backlog (including awarded, contracted and funded backlog). We recognize that attracting and retaining highly talented employees are essential to the success of Ball and, because of this, we strive to pay employees competitively and encourage their ownership of the companys common stock as part of a diversified portfolio. For most management employees, a meaningful portion of compensation is at risk as an incentive, dependent upon economic value added operating performance. For more senior positions, more compensation is at risk through economic value added performance and various stock compensation plans. Through our employee stock purchase plan and 401(k) plan, which matches employee contributions with Ball common stock, employees, regardless of organizational level, have opportunities to own Ball stock. CONSOLIDATED SALES AND EARNINGS The company has five reportable segments organized along a combination of product lines and geographic areas: (1) metal beverage packaging, Americas; (2) metal beverage packaging, Europe/Asia; (3) metal food and household products packaging, Americas; (4) plastic packaging, Americas; and (5) aerospace and technologies. We also have investments in companies in the U.S., the PRC and Brazil, which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, those results are not included in segment sales or earnings. Effective January 1, 2007, a plastic pail product line with 2007 net sales of $52.1 million was transferred from the metal food and household products packaging, Americas, segment to the plastic packaging, Americas, segment. Prior periods have been retroactively adjusted to the current presentation. Page 23 of 94 Metal Beverage Packaging, Americas The metal beverage packaging, Americas, segment consists of operations located in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, which manufacture metal container products used in beverage packaging. During the second quarter of 2007, Miller Brewing Company (Miller), a U.S. customer, asserted various claims against a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, primarily related to the pricing of the aluminum component of the containers supplied by the subsidiary, and on October 4, 2007, the dispute was settled in mediation. Miller received $85.6 million ($51.8 million after tax) on settlement of the dispute and Ball retained all of Millers beverage can and end supply through 2015. Miller received a one time payment of approximately $70 million ($42 million after tax) in January 2008 (recorded on the December 31, 2007, consolidated balance sheet in other current liabilities) with the remainder of the settlement to be recovered over the life of the supply contract through 2015. Including the reduction in net sales resulting from the legal settlement, this segment accounted for 37 percent of consolidated net sales in 2007 (39 percent in 2006). Sales were 6 percent higher in 2007 than in 2006 with flat volumes being offset by higher sales prices, which were primarily due to rising aluminum prices and the pass through of various cost increases to customers. These favorable factors were offset by the legal settlement, which decreased sales by 3 percent in 2007 as compared to 2006. Sales were 9 percent higher in 2006 than in 2005 due to an increase in beverage can shipments in excess of 4 percent coupled with higher aluminum prices passed through to our customers. The higher can shipments over 2005 were driven by favorable weather in many parts of the U.S. and Canada, as well as the promotion of 12 ounce can packages by beer and soft drink companies. Based on publicly available information, we estimate that our shipments of metal beverage containers were approximately 31 percent of total U.S. and Canadian shipments in 2007. We continue to focus efforts on the growing custom beverage can business, which includes cans of different shapes, diameters and fill volumes, and cans with added functional attributes for new products and product line extensions. Including the effect of the legal settlement, earnings in the segment were $213.6 million in 2007 compared to $269.4 million in 2006 and $234.8 million in 2005. Contributing to the higher segment earnings in 2007, before the legal settlement, compared to 2006 were gains from sourcing of raw materials that totaled approximately $30 million. Also contributing were approximately $9 million of lower manufacturing costs related to the new end technology project and improved production efficiencies. These gains were offset by increased repairs and maintenance costs and higher labor and other conversion costs, a portion of which could not be passed through to our customers. The third quarter of 2005 included a pretax charge of $19.3 million ($11.7 million after tax) related to a project to significantly upgrade and streamline our North American beverage can end manufacturing capabilities. The project is expected to be largely completed in 2009. Segment earnings growth in 2006 compared to 2005 (before the end project charge), although aided by 9 percent higher sales in 2006, was constrained by product mix and continued year over year cost growth, particularly higher energy, other direct material and freight costs, which, combined, were approximately $20 million higher than in 2005. Metal Beverage Packaging, Europe/Asia The metal beverage packaging, Europe/Asia, segment includes metal beverage packaging products manufactured and sold in Europe and Asia, as well as plastic containers manufactured and sold in Asia. This segment accounted for 26 percent of consolidated net sales in 2007 (23 percent in 2006). Ball Packaging Europe, which represents an estimated 29 percent of total European metal beverage container manufacturing capacity, has manufacturing plants located in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Poland and Serbia. Segment sales in 2007 were 26 percent higher than in 2006, due to over 9 percent sales volume growth, higher pricing and a 9 percent year over year impact from the increase in the euro. Higher segment volumes were aided by overall market dynamics in Europe that favor beverage cans, as well as growth in Europe of custom can volumes. Offsetting these favorable volume trends were the impacts of the colder and wetter than normal summer weather in many parts of Europe. Page 24 of 94 Segment can shipments were more than 9 percent higher in 2006 than in 2005. Higher segment sales volumes were aided by strong European demand, favorable European weather, Germany hosting the World Cup soccer championship during June and July 2006 and continued growth in the PRC market. Segment sales, which grew 12 percent in 2006, also benefited slightly from the strength of the euro. The new beverage can plant in Belgrade, Serbia, built to serve the growing demand for beverage cans in southern and eastern Europe, became fully operational during the third quarter of 2005. The Serbian plant was constructed to accommodate a second can production line and a can end manufacturing module for future growth. Ball has announced its intention to increase capacity in this segment through the construction of a beverage can manufacturing plant in India, as well as a second beverage can plant in Poland. Earnings in the segment were $256.1 million in 2007, $268.7 million in 2006 and $180.5 million in 2005. Segment earnings in 2006 included a $75.5 million property insurance gain related to a fire at the companys Hassloch, Germany, metal beverage can plant (further details are provided below). The fourth quarter of 2005 included a $9.3 million gain primarily resulting from the final settlement of all tax obligations related to liquidating PRC operations for amounts less than originally estimated. First quarter 2005 segment earnings included a $3.4 million expense for the write off of the remaining carrying value of an equity investment in the PRC. Segment earnings in 2007 compared to 2006, excluding the $75.5 million property insurance gain, increased due to a combination of $76 million in net margin increases from higher sales volumes and price recovery initiatives, $16 million from cost control programs and $13 million due to a stronger euro. These earnings improvements were partially offset by $15.9 million of lower business interruption insurance recognition in 2007 and $26 million of other higher costs. Segment earnings in 2006 were higher than in 2005 due largely to 9 percent sales higher volumes, certain price recovery initiatives and effective manufacturing and selling, general and administrative cost controls. These gains were partially offset by higher raw material, freight and energy costs, and price/cost compression in the PRC. On April 1, 2006, a fire in the metal beverage can plant in Hassloch, Germany, damaged a significant portion of the building and machinery and equipment. The property insurance proceeds recorded for the year ended December 31, 2006, which were based on replacement cost, were 86.3 million ($109.3 million), of which 26 million ($32.4 million) was received in April 2006, 22.7 million ($28.9 million) was received in October 2006 and the remainder of 37.6 million ($48.6 million), which was recorded in other long term assets at December 31, 2006, was received in January 2007. A 26.7 million ($33.8 million) fixed asset write down was recorded to reflect the estimated impairment of the assets damaged as a result of the fire. As a result, a pretax gain of 59.6 million ($75.5 million) was recorded in the 2006 consolidated statement of earnings to reflect the difference between the net book value of the impaired assets and the property insurance proceeds. An additional 27.2 million ($35.1 million) and 40 million ($51 million) were recorded in cost of sales in 2007 and 2006, respectively, for insurance recoveries related to business interruption costs, as well as 11.3 million ($14.3 million) in 2006 to offset clean up costs. Metal Food and Household Products Packaging, Americas The metal food and household products packaging, Americas, segment consists of operations located in the U.S., Canada and Argentina. The company acquired U.S. Can Corporation (U.S. Can) on March 27, 2006, and with that acquisition, added to its metal food can business the production and sale of aerosol cans, paint cans, plastic pails and decorative specialty cans. Effective January 1, 2007, responsibility for the plastic pail product line with 2007 net sales of $52.1 million was transferred to the plastic packaging, Americas, segment. Accordingly, 2006 segment amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the transfer. Segment sales in 2007 constituted 16 percent of consolidated net sales (17 percent in 2006) and were 4 percent higher than 2006 sales. The higher 2007 sales were impacted by 10 percent for the inclusion of a full years sales from the acquisition of U.S. Can, partially offset by lost business that resulted in a 2007 sales decline of 3 percent, as well as customer operating issues in food cans, including a fire in a customers factory, and unfavorable weather conditions in the Midwest. Page 25 of 94 Segment sales in 2006 were 38 percent higher than 2005 sales. The primary reason for the increase was 45 percent higher sales due to the acquisition of U.S. Can, combined with the pass through of higher raw material costs, partially offset by 12 percent lower third quarter food can volumes. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, we were not able to pass through all of the steel price increases and surcharges levied by steel producers and this resulted in margin compression. Based on publicly available trade information, we estimate our 2007 shipments of 5.6 billion steel food containers and 1.6 billion aerosol containers to be approximately 18 percent and 51 percent of total U.S. and Canadian metal food container and steel aerosol container shipments, respectively. A segment loss of $8 million was incurred in 2007 compared to earnings of $2.4 million in 2006 and $19.1 million in 2005. These amounts included pretax charges of $44.2 million in 2007, $35.5 million in 2006 and $11.2 million in 2005, respectively, for business consolidation activities. The 4 percent lower earnings in 2007 compared to 2006 (before the business consolidation activity charges) were due to increased steel and coating material costs, partially offset by improved manufacturing performance in 2007 and higher cost of sales in the second quarter of 2006 related to $6.1 million of purchase accounting adjustments for inventory valuations associated with the acquired U.S. Can finished goods inventory. Higher sales volumes related to the U.S. Can acquisition helped improve segment earnings in the last nine months of 2006, despite the negative impact of lower food can volumes attributable to the loss of a customer in late 2005 and a poor salmon harvest in 2006. Additionally, segment earnings in 2006 were reduced by the $6.1 million of purchase accounting adjustments discussed previously, partially offset by lower freight and other direct material costs of $4 million. While pricing pressures continue on all of our raw materials, other direct materials and freight and utility costs, we continue to seek price increases in the market place to improve our margins. On October 24, 2007, Ball announced plans to close two manufacturing facilities and to exit the custom and decorative tinplate can business located in Baltimore, Maryland. Ball will close its food and household products packaging facilities in Tallapoosa, Georgia, and Commerce, California, both of which manufacture aerosol and general line cans. The two plant closures will result in a net reduction in manufacturing capacity of 10 production lines, including the relocation of two high speed aerosol lines into existing Ball facilities, and will allow us to supply customers from a consolidated asset base. When completed throughout 2008, the actions are expected to yield annualized pretax cost savings in excess of $15 million and improve the aerosol plant utilization rate to more than 85 percent from about 70 percent. The cash costs of these actions are expected to be offset by proceeds on asset dispositions and tax recoveries. A pretax charge of $41.9 million ($25.4 million after tax) was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007 related to these closures. We also recorded a $2.3 million ($1.4 million after tax) pension annuity expense related to a previously closed plant. In October 2006 the company announced plans to close two manufacturing facilities in North America by the end of that year as part of the realignment of the metal food and household products packaging, Americas, segment following the acquisition of U.S. Can earlier in the year. The company closed a leased facility in Alliance, Ohio, which was one of 10 manufacturing locations acquired from U.S. Can, and a plant in Burlington, Ontario, which was part of the metal food can operations prior to the U.S. Can acquisition. The closure of the Ohio plant was treated as an opening balance sheet item. A pretax charge of $35.5 million ($28.7 million after tax) was recorded in 2006, primarily related to the Burlington closure, for employee termination and pension costs, plant decommissioning costs and fixed asset impairment, as well as the shut down of a metal food can manufacturing line in the Whitby, Ontario, plant. When the Burlington building is sold, the estimated costs of the closures will be cash flow neutral after tax benefits and anticipated proceeds. The year ended December 31, 2005, included a net pretax charge of $11.2 million ($7.5 million after tax) for pension, severance and other employee benefit costs related to a reduction in force in the Burlington plant combined with the closure of a three piece food can manufacturing plant in Quebec. The company continues to evaluate the segments manufacturing structure and expects to identify other opportunities to improve efficiencies. Additional details regarding business consolidation activities are available in Note 5 accompanying the consolidated financial statements included within Item 8 of this Annual Report. Page 26 of 94 Plastic Packaging, Americas The plastic packaging, Americas, segment consists of operations located in the U.S. and Canada that manufacture polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene plastic container products used mainly in beverage and food packaging, as well as high density polyethylene and polypropylene containers for industrial and household product applications. On March 28, 2006, Ball acquired certain North American plastic bottle container assets from Alcan Packaging (Alcan), including two plastic container manufacturing plants in the U.S. and one in Canada, as well as certain manufacturing equipment and other assets from other Alcan facilities. Effective January 1, 2007, the plastic packaging, Americas, segment assumed responsibility for plastic pail assets acquired as part of the U.S. Can acquisition. Accordingly, 2006 segment amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the transfer. Segment sales in 2007 comprised 10 percent of consolidated net sales (10 percent in 2006) and increased 8 percent compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase of 7 percent related to the March 2006 acquisition of Alcan and the inclusion of the acquired U.S. Can plastic pail business, as well as an increase of 3 percent for higher sales volumes. Segment sales in 2006 increased 42 percent compared to 2005, including 34 percent related to plant and other asset acquisitions from Alcan and U.S. Can and 6 percent related to higher sales volumes. In view of the substandard performance related to our PET soft drink margins, we continue to focus on price recovery initiatives, as well as our PET development efforts in the custom hot fill, beer, wine, flavored alcoholic beverage, and specialty container markets. In the polypropylene plastic container arena, development efforts are primarily focused on custom packaging markets. Segment earnings were $25.9 million in 2007, $28.3 million in 2006 and $16.7 million in 2005. Earnings were lower in 2007 than in 2006 primarily due to lower sales margins related to approximately $5 million of customer pricing concessions and $2 million of higher labor and overhead costs. The earnings inhibitors were partially offset by approximately $2 million from volume growth in specialty PET sales combined with the incremental margin impact of sales in the first quarter of 2007 related to the acquired Alcan and U.S. Can plants. Segment earnings in 2006 were higher than in 2005 largely due to the margin impact of the incremental sales related to the Alcan and U.S. Can acquisitions, partially offset by $9 million of higher energy and labor costs and approximately $2 million incurred for a litigation claim that was favorably resolved in July 2006. Earnings in the second quarter of 2006 also included purchase accounting adjustments of $1.2 million, which increased cost of sales due to the valuation of inventories associated with the acquired Alcan finished goods inventory. We estimate our 2007 shipments of 6 billion PET plastic bottles to be approximately 9 percent of total U.S. and Canadian PET container shipments. In addition, the plastic packaging, Americas, segment produced approximately 900 million food and specialty containers during 2007. Aerospace and Technologies Aerospace and technologies segment sales represented 11 percent of 2007 consolidated net sales (10 percent in 2006) and were 17 percent higher than in 2006. Sales in 2006 were 3 percent lower than in 2005. The higher sales in 2007 were due to new programs, cost overruns and increased scope on previously awarded contracts, with $58 million attributable to the WorldView and other commercial space operations contracts. Lower sales in 2006 compared to 2005 were largely due to contracts being completed during the period, as well as the impact of government funding reductions and program delays. The aerospace and technologies business won a number of large, strategic contracts and delivered a considerable amount of sophisticated space and defense instrumentation throughout the three year period. Segment earnings were $64.6 million in 2007, $50 million in 2006 and $54.7 million in 2005. Earnings improvement in 2007 was primarily due to higher net sales, particularly $12 million related to the WorldView and other commercial space contracts, an improved contract mix and better program execution. Earnings in 2006 were negatively affected by lower sales due to program delays and unfavorable contract mix. The first quarter of 2005 included expense of $3.8 million for the write down to net realizable value of an equity investment in an aerospace company. This investment was sold in October 2005 for approximately its carrying value. Page 27 of 94 Some of the segments high profile contracts include: the WorldView 1 and WorldView 2 advanced commercial remote sensing satellites; the James Webb Space Telescope, a successor to the Hubble Space Telescope; the Space Based Space Surveillance System, which will detect and track space objects such as satellites and orbital debris; NPOESS, the next generation satellite weather monitoring system; and a number of antennas for the Joint Strike Fighter. Sales to the U.S. government, either directly as a prime contractor or indirectly as a subcontractor, represented 84 percent of segment sales in 2007, 90 percent of segment sales in 2006 and 87 percent in 2005. Contracted backlog for the aerospace and technologies segment at December 31, 2007 and 2006, was $774 million and $886 million, respectively. Year to year comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of the trend of future operations. Additional Segment Information For additional information regarding the companys segments, see the summary of business segment information in Note 2 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. The charges recorded for business consolidation activities were based on estimates by Ball management, actuaries and others and were developed from information available at the time. If actual outcomes vary from the estimates, the differences will be reflected in current period earnings in the consolidated statement of earnings and identified as business consolidation gains and losses. Additional details about our business consolidation activities and associated costs are provided in Note 5 accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $323.7 million, $287.2 million and $233.8 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contributing to higher expenses in 2007 compared to 2006 were $4.5 million of additional SG&A from the U.S. Can acquisition, higher research and development costs and aerospace bid and proposal costs of $9.4 million, increased sales and marketing efforts of $5.4 million and $15.8 million of compensation and benefit increases, including year over year incentive compensation costs. Also, a $5.8 million out of period foreign currency adjustment was included in SG&A expenses in the first quarter of 2006 (discussed in further detail in Note 19 accompanying the consolidated financial statements included within Item 8 of this report). The increase in SG&A expenses in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily the result of $20 million of incremental SG&A (after realized synergies) from the acquired U.S. Can operations, the $5.8 million out of period foreign currency adjustment, higher expense of $6.3 million associated with the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), $2 million for higher rates associated with the companys receivables sales agreement, $5 million of increased legal fees related to patent litigation, $6.7 million for an initial mark to market adjustment to one of the companys deferred compensation stock plans due to a plan amendment, as well as compensation and benefit increases. Interest and Taxes Consolidated interest expense was $149.4 million in 2007; $134.4 million in 2006 and $116.4 million, including debt refinancing costs of $19.3 million, in 2005. The higher expense for each successive year was primarily due to the additional borrowings used to finance the acquisitions of U.S. Can and the Alcan assets, combined with higher interest rates in 2007. The debt refinancing costs in 2005 of $19.3 million were costs associated with the refinancing of the companys senior credit facilities and the redemption in the last half of 2005 of the companys 7.75% senior notes, which were due in August 2006. Balls consolidated effective income tax rate for 2007 was 26.3 percent compared to 29.4 percent in 2006 and 29.2 percent in 2005. The lower effective rate in 2007 was the result of earnings mix (higher foreign earnings taxed at lower rates) and net tax benefit adjustments of $17.2 million recorded in the third quarter of 2007, as compared to $6.4 million in 2006. These net tax benefit adjustments were the result of enacted income tax rate reductions in Germany and the United Kingdom and a tax loss related to the companys Canadian operations. These benefits were offset by a tax provision to adjust for the final settlement negotiations concluded in the quarter with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) related to a company owned life insurance plan (discussed below). Based on current estimates, the 2008 effective income tax rate is expected to be around 33 percent. Page 28 of 94 During 2007 the company concluded final settlement negotiations with the IRS on the deductibility of interest expense on incurred loans from a company owned life insurance plan. An additional accrual of $7 million was made in the third quarter to adjust the accrued liability to the final settlement of $18.4 million, including interest, for the years 2000 2004, which were under examination, and for the unaudited years 2005 2007. This settlement included agreement on the prospective treatment of interest deductibility on the policy loans, which will not have a significant impact on earnings per share, cash flow or liquidity in future periods. Further details are available in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. While the effective tax rates for 2006 and 2005 are similar, the 2006 rate was impacted by a tax benefit of $8.1 million associated with a foreign exchange loss as a result of the change in the functional currency of a European subsidiary in the local statutory accounts. The one time benefit was somewhat offset by a higher foreign tax rate differential due to taxation of the German property insurance gain at the marginal rate of 39 percent and a valuation allowance on a Canadian net operating loss resulting from the 2006 business consolidation costs. The 2005 rate was impacted by the tax benefit recorded on the repatriation of foreign earnings at legislated reduced rates plus the tax benefit on business consolidation costs applied at the higher marginal rate. Results of Equity Affiliates Equity in the earnings of affiliates is primarily attributable to our 50 percent ownership in packaging investments in the U.S. and Brazil. Earnings were $12.9 million in 2007, $14.7 million in 2006 and $15.5 million in 2005. CRITICAL AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For information regarding the companys critical and significant accounting policies, as well as recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows and Capital Expenditures Our primary sources of liquidity are cash provided by operating activities and external borrowings. We believe that cash flows from operations and cash provided by short term and revolver borrowings, when necessary, will be sufficient to meet our ongoing operating requirements, scheduled principal and interest payments on debt, dividend payments and anticipated capital expenditures. However, our liquidity could be impacted significantly by a decrease in demand for our products, which could arise from competitive circumstances, or any of the other factors we describe in Item 1A, Risk Factors. Cash flows from operating activities were $673 million in 2007 compared to $401.4 million in 2006 and $558.8 million in 2005. The improvement over 2006 was primarily due to higher net earnings before the legal settlement in 2007 and the insurance gain in 2006 related to the Hassloch fire. The improvement in 2007 was also the result of reduced changes in working capital components and lower income tax payments, partially offset by higher pension contributions. Cash flows from operating activities in 2006 were negatively affected by higher cash pension funding and higher working capital levels compared to the prior year. The higher working capital was a combination of higher than planned raw material inventory levels, higher income tax payments and higher accounts receivable balances, the latter resulting primarily from the repayment of a portion of the accounts receivable securitization program and late payments from customers in Europe. Management internally uses a free cash flow measure: (1) to evaluate the companys operating results, (2) to plan stock buy back levels, (3) to evaluate strategic investments and (4) to evaluate the companys ability to incur and service debt. Free cash flow is not a defined term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and it should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as cash flow from operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment (capital spending). Free cash flow is typically derived directly from the companys cash flow statements; however, it may be adjusted for items that affect comparability between periods. An example of such an item included in 2006 is the property insurance proceeds for the replacement of the fire damaged assets in our Hassloch, Germany, plant, which Page 29 of 94 are included in capital spending amounts. Another example is the companys decision in 2007 to contribute an additional $44.5 million ($27.3 million) to its pension plans as part of its overall debt reduction plan. Based on this, our consolidated free cash flow is summarized as follows: ($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Cash flows from operating activities $ 673.0 $ 401.4 $ 558.8 Incremental pension funding, net of tax 27.3 Capital spending (308.5 ) (279.6 ) (291.7 ) Proceeds for replacement of fire damaged assets 48.6 61.3 Free cash flow $ 440.4 $ 183.1 $ 267.1 Based on information currently available, we estimate cash flows from operating activities for 2008 to be approximately $650 million, capital spending to be approximately $350 million and free cash flow to be in the $300 million range. Capital spending of $259.9 million (net of $48.6 million in insurance recoveries) in 2007 was below depreciation and amortization expense of $281 million. We continue to invest capital in our best performing operations, including projects to increase custom can capabilities, improve beverage can and end making productivity and add more beverage can capacity in Europe, as well as expenditures in the aerospace and technologies segment. Of the $350 million of planned capital spending for 2008, approximately $180 million will be spent on top line sales growth projects. Debt Facilities and Refinancing Interest bearing debt at December 31, 2007, decreased $93.1 million to $2,358.6 million from $2,451.7 million at December 31, 2006. The 2007 debt decrease from 2006 was primarily attributed to debt payments offset by higher foreign exchange rates. At December 31, 2007, $705 million was available under the companys multi currency revolving credit facilities. The company also had $345 million of short term uncommitted credit facilities available at the end of the year, of which $49.7 million was outstanding. On October 13, 2005, Ball refinanced its senior secured credit facilities and during the third and fourth quarters of 2005, Ball redeemed its 7.75% senior notes due August 2006 primarily through the drawdown of funds under the new credit facilities. The refinancing and redemption resulted in a pretax debt refinancing charge of $19.3 million ($12.3 million after tax) to reflect the call premium associated with the senior notes and the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs. The company has a receivables sales agreement that provides for the ongoing, revolving sale of a designated pool of trade accounts receivable of Balls North American packaging operations, up to $250 million. The agreement qualifies as off balance sheet financing under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140, as amended by SFAS No. 156. Net funds received from the sale of the accounts receivable totaled $170 million and $201.3 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and are reflected as a reduction of accounts receivable in the consolidated balance sheets. The company was not in default of any loan agreement at December 31, 2007, and has met all payment obligations. The U.S. note agreements, bank credit agreement and industrial development revenue bond agreements contain certain restrictions relating to dividends, investments, financial ratios, guarantees and the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Additional details about the companys receivables sales agreement and debt are available in Notes 7 and 13, respectively, accompanying the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report. Page 30 of 94 Other Liquidity Items Cash payments required for long term debt maturities, rental payments under noncancellable operating leases, purchase obligations and other commitments in effect at December 31, 2007, are summarized in the following table: Payments Due By Period (a) ($ in millions) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years Long term debt $ 2,302.6 $ 126.1 $ 547.6 $ 1,174.9 $ 454.0 Capital lease obligations 4.4 1.0 0.8 0.5 2.1 Interest payments on long term debt (b) 698.6 142.9 246.3 152.5 156.9 Operating leases 218.5 49.9 71.7 42.5 54.4 Purchase obligations (c) 6,092.6 2,397.2 3,118.8 576.6 Common stock repurchase agreements 131.0 131.0 Legal settlement 70.0 70.0 Total payments on contractual obligations $ 9,517.7 $ 2,918.1 $ 3,985.2 $ 1,947.0 $ 667.4 (a) Amounts reported in local currencies have been translated at the year end exchange rates. (b) For variable rate facilities, amounts are based on interest rates in effect at year end and do not contemplate the effects of hedging instruments. (c) The companys purchase obligations include contracted amounts for aluminum, steel, plastic resin and other direct materials. Also included are commitments for purchases of natural gas and electricity, aerospace and technologies contracts and other less significant items. In cases where variable prices and or usage are involved, managements best estimates have been used. Depending on the circumstances, early termination of the contracts may not result in penalties and, therefore, actual payments could vary significantly. Contributions to the companys defined benefit pension plans, not including the unfunded German plans, are expected to be $49 million in 2008. This estimate may change based on plan asset performance. Benefit payments related to these plans are expected to be $66 million, $70 million, $74 million, $77 million and $82 million for the years ending December 31, 2008 through 2012, respectively, and a total of $473 million for the years 2013 through 2017. Payments to participants in the unfunded German plans are expected to be approximately $26 million in each of the years 2008 through 2012 and a total of $136 million for the years 2013 through 2017. In accordance with United Kingdom pension regulations, Ball has provided an 8 million guarantee to the plan for its defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom. If the companys credit rating falls below specified levels, Ball will be required to either: (1) contribute an additional 8 million to the plan; (2) provide a letter of credit to the plan in that amount or (3) if imposed by the appropriate regulatory agency, provide a lien on company assets in that amount for the benefit of the plan. The guarantee can be removed upon approval by both Ball and the pension plan trustees. Our share repurchase program in 2007 was $211.3 million, net of issuances, compared to $45.7 million net repurchases in 2006 and $358.1 million in 2005. The net repurchases included the $51.9 million settlement on January 5, 2007, of a forward contract entered into in December 2006 for the repurchase of 1,200,000 shares. However, the 2007 net repurchases did not include a forward contract entered into in December 2007 for the repurchase of 675,000 shares. The contract was settled on January 7, 2008, for $31 million in cash. On December 12, 2007, in a privately negotiated transaction, Ball entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement to buy $100 million of its common shares using cash on hand and available borrowings. The company advanced the $100 million on January 7, 2008, and received approximately 2 million shares, which represented 90 percent of the total shares as calculated using the previous days closing price. The exact number of shares to be repurchased under the agreement, which will be determined on the settlement date (no later than June 5, 2008), is subject to an adjustment based on a weighted average price calculation for the period between the initial purchase date and the settlement date. The company has the option to settle the contract in either cash or shares. Including the settlements of the forward share purchase contract and the accelerated share repurchase agreement, we expect to repurchase approximately $300 million of our common shares, net of issuances, in 2008. Annual cash dividends paid on common stock were 40 cents per share in 2007, 2006 and 2005. Total dividends paid were $40.6 million in 2007, $41 million in 2006 and $42.5 million in 2005. Page 31 of 94 Contingencies The company is subject to various risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business due, in part, to the competitive nature of the industries in which we participate, our operations in developing markets outside the U.S., changing commodity prices for the materials used in the manufacture of our products and changing capital markets. Where practicable, we attempt to reduce these risks and uncertainties through the establishment of risk management policies and procedures, including, at times, the use of derivative financial instruments as explained in Item 7A of this report. From time to time, the company is subject to routine litigation incident to its business. Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has designated Ball as a potentially responsible party, along with numerous other companies, for the cleanup of several hazardous waste sites. Our information at this time does not indicate that these matters will have a material adverse effect upon the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the company. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Future events could affect these estimates. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this report for a summary of the companys critical and significant accounting policies. The U.S. and European economies have experienced minor general inflation during the past several years. Management believes that evaluation of Balls performance during the periods covered by these consolidated financial statements should be based upon historical financial statements. Page 32 of 94 Forward Looking Statements The company has made or implied certain forward looking statements in this report, which are made as of the end of the time frame covered by this report. These forward looking statements represent the companys goals, and results could vary materially from those expressed or implied. From time to time we also provide oral or written forward looking statements in other materials we release to the public. As time passes, the relevance and accuracy of forward looking statements may change. Some factors that could cause the companys actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements include, but are not limited to: fluctuation in customer and consumer growth, demand and preferences; loss of one or more major customers or changes to contracts with one or more customers; insufficient production capacity; overcapacity in foreign and domestic metal and plastic container industry production facilities and its impact on pricing; failure to achieve anticipated productivity improvements or production cost reductions, including those associated with capital expenditures such as our beverage can end project; changes in climate and weather; fruit, vegetable and fishing yields; power and natural resource costs; difficulty in obtaining supplies and energy, such as gas and electric power; availability and cost of raw materials, as well as the recent significant increases in resin, steel, aluminum and energy costs, and the ability or inability to include or pass on to customers changes in raw material costs; changes in the pricing of the companys products and services; competition in pricing and the possible decrease in, or loss of, sales resulting therefrom; insufficient or reduced cash flow; transportation costs; the number and timing of the purchases of the companys common shares; regulatory action or federal and state legislation including mandated corporate governance and financial reporting laws; mandatory deposit or restrictive packaging legislation such as recycling laws; interest rates affecting our debt; labor strikes; increases and trends in various employee benefits and labor costs, including pension, medical and health care costs; rates of return projected and earned on assets and discount rates used to measure future obligations and expenses of the companys defined benefit retirement plans; boycotts; antitrust, intellectual property, consumer and other litigation; maintenance and capital expenditures; goodwill impairment; changes in generally accepted accounting principles or their interpretation; accounting changes; local economic conditions; the authorization, funding, availability and returns of contracts for the aerospace and technologies segment and the nature and continuation of those contracts and related services provided thereunder; delays, extensions and technical uncertainties, as well as schedules of performance associated with such segment contracts; international business and market risks such as the devaluation or revaluation of certain currencies and the activities of foreign subsidiaries; international business risks (including foreign exchange rates and activities of foreign subsidiaries) in Europe and particularly in developing countries such as the PRC and Brazil; changes in the foreign exchange rates of the U.S. dollar against the European euro, British pound, Polish zloty, Serbian dinar, Hong Kong dollar, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Brazilian real and Argentine peso, and in the foreign exchange rate of the European euro against the British pound, Polish zloty and Serbian dinar; terrorist activity or war that disrupts the companys production or supply; regulatory action or laws including tax, environmental and workplace safety; technological developments and innovations; successful or unsuccessful acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures and the integration activities associated therewith; changes in senior management; changes to unaudited results due to statutory audits of our financial statements or managements evaluation of the companys internal controls over financial reporting; and loss contingencies related to income and other tax matters, including those arising from audits performed by U.S. and foreign tax authorities. If the company is unable to achieve its goals, then the companys actual performance could vary materially from those goals expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. The company currently does not intend to publicly update forward looking statements except as it deems necessary in quarterly or annual earnings reports. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10 K, 10 Q and 8 K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Page 33 of 94 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Financial Instruments and Risk Management In the ordinary course of business, we employ established risk management policies and procedures to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currencies and prices of the companys common stock in regard to common share repurchases. Although the instruments utilized involve varying degrees of credit, market and interest risk, the counterparties to the agreements are expected to perform fully under the terms of the agreements. We have estimated our market risk exposure using sensitivity analysis. Market risk exposure has been defined as the changes in fair value of derivative instruments, financial instruments and commodity positions. To test the sensitivity of our market risk exposure, we have estimated the changes in fair value of market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in market prices or rates. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below. Commodity Price Risk We manage our North American commodity price risk in connection with market price fluctuations of aluminum primarily by entering into container sales contracts that include aluminum based pricing terms that generally reflect price fluctuations under our commercial supply contracts for aluminum purchases. The terms include fixed, floating or pass through aluminum component pricing. This matched pricing affects substantially all of our metal beverage packaging, Americas, net sales. We also, at times, use certain derivative instruments such as option and forward contracts as cash flow and fair value hedges of commodity price risk where there is not a pass through arrangement in the sales contract. Most of the plastic packaging, Americas, sales contracts include provisions to fully pass through resin cost changes. As a result, we believe we have minimal exposure related to changes in the cost of plastic resin. Most metal food and household products packaging, Americas, sales contracts either include provisions permitting us to pass through some or all steel cost changes we incur, or they incorporate annually negotiated steel costs. In 2007 and 2006, we were able to pass through to our customers the majority of steel cost increases. We anticipate that we will be able to pass through the majority of the steel price increases that occur through the end of 2008. In Europe and Asia, the company manages the aluminum and steel raw material commodity price risks through annual and long term contracts for the purchase of the materials, as well as certain sales of containers, that reduce the companys exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices within the current year. These purchase and sales contracts include fixed price, floating and pass through pricing arrangements. We also use forward and option contracts as cash flow hedges to manage future aluminum price risk and foreign exchange exposures for those sales contracts where there is not a pass through arrangement to minimize the companys exposure to significant price changes. We also use option contracts to limit the impacts of European inflation in certain multi year contracts. Considering the effects of derivative instruments, the markets ability to accept price increases and the companys commodity price exposures, a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the companys steel, aluminum and resin prices could result in an estimated $6 million after tax reduction in net earnings over a one year period. Additionally, if foreign currency exchange rates were to change adversely by 10 percent, we estimate there could be a $12 million after tax reduction in net earnings over a one year period for foreign currency exposures on raw materials. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates. Sensitivity to foreign currency exposures related to metal increased over prior years due to an increase in metal purchases and related payables at our foreign operations, which are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. The company is also exposed to fluctuations in prices for utilities such as natural gas and electricity, as well as the cost of diesel fuel as a component of freight cost. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in our utility prices could result in an estimated $10 million after tax reduction of net earnings over a one year period. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in our diesel fuel surcharge could result in an estimated $2 million after tax reduction of net earnings over the same period. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates. Page 34 of 94 Interest Rate Risk Our objective in managing our exposure to interest rate changes is to manage the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we use a variety of interest rate swaps, collars and options to manage our mix of floating and fixed rate debt. Interest rate instruments held by the company at December 31, 2007, included pay fixed interest rate swaps and interest rate collars. Pay fixed swaps effectively convert variable rate obligations to fixed rate instruments. Collars create an upper and lower threshold within which interest rates will fluctuate. Based on our interest rate exposure at December 31, 2007, assumed floating rate debt levels throughout 2008 and the effects of derivative instruments, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates could result in an estimated $8 million after tax reduction in net earnings over a one year period. Actual results may vary based on actual changes in market prices and rates and the timing of these changes. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to protect foreign cash flows and earnings from changes associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes through the use of cash flow hedges. In addition, we manage foreign earnings translation volatility through the use of foreign currency options. Our foreign currency translation risk results from the European euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi, Brazilian real, Argentine peso and Serbian dinar. We face currency exposures in our global operations as a result of purchasing raw materials in U.S. dollars and, to a lesser extent, in other currencies. Sales contracts are negotiated with customers to reflect cost changes and, where there is not a foreign exchange pass through arrangement, the company uses forward and option contracts to manage foreign currency exposures. Considering the companys derivative financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2007, and the currency exposures, a hypothetical 10 percent reduction (U.S. dollar strengthening) in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. dollar could result in an estimated $23 million after tax reduction in net earnings over a one year period. This amount includes the $12 million currency exposure discussed above in the Commodity Price Risk section. This hypothetical adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates would also reduce our forecasted average debt balance by $84 million. Actual changes in market prices or rates may differ from hypothetical changes. Common Share Repurchases In connection with the companys ongoing share repurchases, the company periodically sells put options, which give the purchasers of those options the right to sell shares of the companys common stock to the company on specified dates at specified prices upon the exercise of those options. Our objective in selling put options is to lower the average purchase price of acquired shares. There were no put option contracts outstanding at the end of 2007. On December 3, 2007, Ball entered into a forward repurchase agreement for the purchase of 675,000 shares of its common stock. This agreement was settled for $31 million on January 7, 2008, and the shares were delivered that day. On December 12, 2007, we also entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement for approximately $100 million. The agreement provided for the delivery of approximately 2 million shares, which represented 90 percent of the total estimated shares to ultimately be delivered. The $100 million was paid on January 7, 2008, at the time the shares were delivered. The remaining shares and average price per share will be determined at the conclusion of the contract, which is expected to occur no later than June 5, 2008. Page 35 of 94 
 
