FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20050510150551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 5, 2005 Commission Registrant, State of Incorporation, I.R.S. Employer File Number Address and Telephone Number Identification No. 1-8809 SCANA Corporation 57-0784499 (a South Carolina corporation) 1426 Main Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201 (803) 217-9000 1-3375 South Carolina Electric & Gas Company 57-0248695 (a South Carolina corporation) 1426 Main Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201 (803) 217-9000 1-11429 Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated 56-2128483 (a South Carolina corporation) 1426 Main Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201 (803) 217-9000 Not applicable - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): / / Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) / / Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) / / Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) / / Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) This combined Form 8-K is separately furnished by SCANA Corporation, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated. Information contained herein relating to any individual company is furnished by such company on its own behalf. Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other companies.
Item 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT. On May 5, 2005, the shareholders of SCANA Corporation (SCANA) approved the Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated as of January 1, 2005 (the Plan). The Plan was first approved by SCANA's shareholders in 2000, but under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, continued deductibility of compensation relating to certain Plan awards requires that the Plan be approved by the shareholders every five years. Plan awards may be comprised of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights (either alone or in tandem with a related option), restricted stock, performance units and performance shares. The Plan is administered by the Human Resources Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors, except that, with respect to awards to non-employee directors, the full Board administers the Plan. Employees of SCANA and its subsidiaries (the Company) who are anticipated to be significant contributors to the Company's success and non-employee directors of SCANA are eligible to participate in the Plan. The Committee may grant awards under the Plan subject to the attainment of certain specified performance measures. The performance measures will be chosen from among earnings per share measures, return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, equity or sales), cash flow return on investment, which equals net cash flow divided by owners' equity, earnings before or after taxes, gross revenues and share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total shareholder return). The performance measures with respect to eligible employees may be measured at the SCANA level, at a subsidiary level or at an operating unit level. The Committee has the discretion to adjust the determinations of the degree of attainment of the pre-established performance goals; provided, however, that certain awards may not be adjusted upward (the Committee has the discretion to adjust such awards downward). There have been no material amendments to the Plan since it was first approved by shareholders in 2000. Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. 10.01 SCANA Corporation Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated as of January 1, 2005
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. The signature of each registrant shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such registrant and any subsidiaries thereof. SCANA Corporation South Carolina Electric & Gas Company Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated (Registrants) May 10, 2005 By: s/James E. Swan, IV ------------------------------------- James E. Swan, IV Controller
EXHIBIT INDEX Number 10.01 SCANA Corporation Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated as of January 1, 2005

EXHIBIT 10.01 Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan SCANA Corporation January 1, 2000 (Amended and Restated as of January 1, 2005)
Contents - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Article 1. Establishment, Objectives, and Duration.........................1 Article 2. Definitions.....................................................1 Article 3. Administration..................................................5 Article 4. Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards...................5 Article 5. Eligibility and Participation...................................7 Article 6. Stock Options...................................................7 Article 7. Stock Appreciation Rights.......................................8 Article 8. Restricted Stock................................................10 Article 9. Performance Units and Performance Shares........................11 Article 10. Performance Measures...........................................12 Article 11. Beneficiary Designation........................................13 Article 12. Deferrals......................................................13 Article 13. Rights of Employees/Directors..................................13 Article 14. Change in Control..............................................14 Article 15. Amendment, Modification, and Termination.......................14 Article 16. Withholding....................................................15 Article 17. Indemnification................................................15 Article 18. Successors.....................................................15 Article 19. Legal Construction.............................................16
SCANA Corporation Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan Article 1. Establishment, Objectives and Duration 1.1......Establishment of the Plan. SCANA Corporation, a South Carolina corporation (hereinafter referred to as "SCANA"), hereby establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as the "SCANA Corporation Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan" (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"), as set forth in this document. The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Performance Shares and Performance Units. The Plan became effective January 1, 2000 (the "Effective Date") and subject to approval by SCANA's shareholders at the 2005 Annual Meeting, is hereby amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005 and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof. Any Awards which are made under the Plan prior to its approval by SCANA's shareholders are expressly contingent upon such approval and shall become null and void in the event such approval is not obtained. 1.2 Objectives of the Plan. The objectives of the Plan are to optimize the profitability and growth of the Company through long-term incentives which are consistent with the Company's goals and which link the personal interests of Participants to those of SCANA's shareholders; to provide Participants with an incentive for excellence in individual performance; and to promote teamwork among Participants. The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Participants who make significant contributions to the Company's success and to allow Participants to share in the success of the Company. 1.3 Duration of the Plan. The Plan shall commence on the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1 hereof, and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Committee to amend or terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article 15 hereof, until all Shares subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the Plan's provisions. However, in no event may an Award be granted under the Plan more than ten (10) years after the Effective Date of the Plan. Article 2. Definitions Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized: 2.1 "Award" means, individually or collectively, a grant under this Plan of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Performance Shares or Performance Units. 2.2 "Award Agreement" means an agreement entered into by SCANA and each Participant setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted under this Plan. 2.3 "Beneficial Owner" or "Beneficial Ownership" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.
2.4 "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of SCANA. 2.5 "Change in Control" means a change in control of SCANA of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not SCANA is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided that, without limitation, such a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if: (a) Any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock of SCANA; (b) During any period of two (2) consecutive years (not including any period prior to December 18, 1996) there shall cease to be a majority of the Board comprised as follows: individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board and any new director(s) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by SCANA's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved; (c) The issuance of an Order by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), under Section 9(a)(2) of the Public Utility Holding Act of 1935 (the "1935 Act"), authorizing a third party to acquire more than five percent (5%) of SCANA's voting shares of capital stock; (d) The shareholders of SCANA approve a merger or consolidation of SCANA with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting shares of capital stock of SCANA outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting shares of capital stock of the surviving entity) at least eighty percent (80%) of the combined voting power of the voting shares of capital stock of SCANA or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or the shareholders of SCANA approve a plan of complete liquidation of SCANA or an agreement for the sale or disposition by SCANA of all or substantially all of SCANA's assets; or (e) The shareholders of SCANA approve a plan of complete liquidation, or the sale or disposition of South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (hereinafter SCE&G), South Carolina Pipeline Corporation, or any subsidiary of SCANA designated by the Board of Directors as a "Material Subsidiary," but such event shall represent a Change in Control only with respect to a Participant who has been exclusively assigned to SCE&G, South Carolina Pipeline Corporation, or the affected "Material Subsidiary". 2.6 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
2.7 "Committee" means any committee appointed by the Board to administer Awards to Employees, as specified in Article 3 herein. Any such committee shall be comprised entirely of Directors who satisfy the "outside director" requirements of Code Section 162(m) and who are "Non-Employee Directors" as defined in Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. 2.8 "Company" means SCANA and all of its Subsidiaries. 2.9 "Covered Employee" means a Participant who, as of the date of vesting and/or payout of an Award, as applicable, is one of the group of "covered employees," as defined in the regulations promulgated under Code Section 162(m), or any successor statute. 2.10 "Director" means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors of SCANA; provided, however, that any Director who is employed by the Company shall be considered an Employee under the Plan. 2.11 "Disability" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Participant's governing long-term disability plan, or if no such plan exists, by the Committee. 2.12 "Effective Date" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 1.1 hereof. 2.13 "Employee" means any employee of the Company. Directors who are employed by the Company shall be considered Employees under this Plan. 2.14 "Eligible Employee" means an Employee who is anticipated to be a significant contributor to the success of the Company as determined by the Committee upon or without the recommendation of officers of the Company. 2.15 "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto. 2.16 "Fair Market Value" shall be determined on the basis of the opening sale price on the principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded or, if there is no such sale on the relevant date, then on the last previous day on which a sale was reported, except that as to the "cashless" exercise of Nonqualified Stock Options pursuant to Section 6.6 of the Plan, the "Fair Market Value" of Shares for determining the compensation amount recognized by the Participant shall be the actual trade price on the principal securities exchange of Shares sold to provide cash to Participants. 2.17 "Freestanding SAR" means an SAR that is granted independently of any Options, as described in Article 7 herein. 2.18 "Incentive Stock Option" or "ISO" means an option to purchase Shares granted under Article 6 herein and which is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and which is intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 422.
2.19 "Nonqualified Stock Option" or "NQSO" means an option to purchase Shares granted under Article 6 herein and which is not intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 422. 2.20 "Option" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option, as described in Article 6 herein. 2.21 "Option Price" means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option. 2.22 "Participant" means an Eligible Employee or a Director and who, in either case, has been selected to receive an Award or who has outstanding an Award granted under the Plan. 2.23 "Performance-Based Exception" means the performance-based exception from the tax deductibility limitations of Code Section 162(m). 2.24 "Performance Share" means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Article 9 herein, that shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. 2.25 "Performance Unit" means an Award granted to a Participant, as described in Article 9 herein, that shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee on the date of grant. 2.26 "Period of Restriction" means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock is limited in some way (based on the passage of time, the achievement of performance goals, or the occurrence of other events as determined by the Committee, at its discretion), and the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as provided in Article 8 herein. 2.27 "Person" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a) (9) of the Exchange Act and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d) thereof. 2.28 "Restricted Stock" means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Article 8 herein. 2.29 "Retirement" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the SCANA Corporation Retirement Plan. 2.30 "Shares" means the shares of common stock of SCANA. 2.31 "Stock Appreciation Right" or "SAR" means an Award, granted alone or in connection with a related Option, designated as an SAR, pursuant to the terms of Article 7 herein. 2.32 "Subsidiary" means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, or other entity in which SCANA has a majority voting interest.
2.33 "Tandem SAR" means an SAR that is granted in connection with a related Option pursuant to Article 7 herein, the exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to purchase a Share under the related Option (and when a Share is purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall similarly be canceled). Article 3. Administration 3.1 General. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. However, the full Board of Directors shall administer the Plan with respect to Awards granted to Directors and, in such cases, all applicable references to the Committee in the Plan shall be to the Board. The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the discretion of, the Board of Directors. The Committee shall have the authority to delegate administrative duties to officers of the Company or Directors. 3.2 Authority of the Committee. Except as limited by law or by the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of SCANA, and subject to the provisions herein, the Committee shall have full power to select Eligible Employees and Directors who shall participate in the Plan; determine the sizes and types of Awards; determine the terms and conditions of Awards in a manner consistent with the Plan; construe and interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan's administration; and (subject to the provisions of Article 15 herein) amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award as provided in the Plan. Further, the Committee shall make all other determinations which may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. 3.3 Decisions Binding. All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders and resolutions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including SCANA, its stockholders, Directors, Eligible Employees, Participants and their estates and beneficiaries. Article 4. Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards 4.1 Number of Shares Available for Grants. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for issuance to Participants under the Plan shall be five million (5,000,000), no more than one million (1,000,000) of which may be granted in the form of Restricted Stock. The following rules shall apply to grants of Awards under the Plan: (a) Stock Options: The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the form of Stock Options, pursuant to any Award granted in any one fiscal year to any one single Participant shall be three hundred thousand (300,000) Shares. (b) SARs: The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the form of Stock Appreciation Rights, pursuant to any Award granted in any one fiscal year to any one single Participant shall be three hundred thousand (300,000) Shares. (c) Restricted Stock: The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock granted in any one fiscal year to any one Participant shall be one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) Shares.
(d) Performance Shares: The maximum aggregate payout (determined as of the end of the applicable performance period) with respect to Awards of Performance Shares granted in any one fiscal year to any one Participant shall be equal to the value of two hundred thousand (200,000) Shares. (e) Performance Units: The maximum aggregate payout (determined as of the end of the applicable performance period) with respect to Awards of Performance Units granted in any one fiscal year to any one Participant shall be equal to the value of one million dollars ($1,000,000). 4.2 Adjustments for Awards and Payouts. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, the following Awards and Payouts shall reduce, on a one-for-one basis, the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan: (a) An Award of an Option; (b) An Award of an SAR (except a Tandem SAR); (c) An Award of Restricted Stock; (d) A payout of a Performance Share Award in Shares; and (e) A payout of a Performance Unit Award in Shares. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, unless a Participant has received a benefit of ownership such as dividend or voting rights with respect to the Award, the following transactions shall restore, on a one-for-one basis, the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan: (a) A payout of an SAR, Tandem SAR, or Restricted Stock Award in the form of cash; and (b) A cancellation, termination, expiration, forfeiture or lapse for any reason (with the exception of the termination of a Tandem SAR upon exercise of the related Options, or the termination of a related Option upon exercise of the corresponding Tandem SAR) of any Award payable in Shares. 4.3 Adjustments in Authorized Shares. In the event of any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, or a corporate transaction, such as any merger, consolidation, separation, including a spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of SCANA, any reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Code Section 368) or any partial or complete liquidation of SCANA, such adjustment shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered under Section 4.1, in the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan, and in the Award limits set forth in Section 4.1, as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number.
Article 5. Eligibility and Participation 5.1 Eligibility. Persons eligible to participate in this Plan include all Eligible Employees and Directors. In no event, however, shall any ISOs be granted to any person who owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of SCANA. 5.2 Actual Participation. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select in its sole and broad discretion, upon or without the recommendation of officers of the Company, from all Eligible Employees and Directors, those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and amount of each Award. Article 6. Stock Options 6.1 Grant of Options. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. 6.2 Award Agreement. Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO within the meaning of Code Section 422, or an NQSO whose grant is intended not to fall under the provisions of Code Section 422. 6.3 Option Price. The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Option is granted. 6.4 Duration of Options. Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, that no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date of its grant. 6.5 Exercise of Options. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant. 6.6 Payment. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise to SCANA, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares. The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to SCANA in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent, or (b) if permitted by the Award Agreement, by tendering previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price (provided that the Shares which are tendered must have been held by the Participant for at least six (6) months prior to their tender to satisfy the Option Price), or (c) if permitted by the Award Agreement, by a combination of (a) and (b).
The Committee also may allow cashless exercise as permitted under the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation T, subject to applicable securities law restrictions, or by any other means which the Committee determines to be consistent with the Plan's purpose and applicable law. Subject to any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of a written notification of exercise and full payment, SCANA shall deliver to the Participant, in the Participant's name, certificates evidencing the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s). 6.7 Restrictions on Share Transferability. The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares. 6.8 Termination of Employment/Directorship. Each Participant's Option Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's employment or directorship with the Company. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 6.9 Nontransferability of Options. (a) Incentive Stock Options. No ISO granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, all ISOs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant. (b) Nonqualified Stock Options. Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, no NQSO granted under this Article 6 may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, all NQSOs granted to a Participant under this Article 6 shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant. Article 7. Stock Appreciation Rights 7.1 Grant of SARs. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs or any combination of these forms of SAR. The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs. The grant price of a Freestanding SAR shall equal the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of the SAR. The grant price of Tandem SARs shall equal the Option Price of the related Option.
7.2 Exercise of Tandem SARs. Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then exercisable. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO: (i) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (ii) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (iii) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO. 7.3 Exercise of Freestanding SARs. Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes upon them. 7.4 SAR Agreement. Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the grant price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine. 7.5 Term of SARs. The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion; provided, however, that such term shall not exceed ten (10) years. 7.6 Payment of SAR Amount. Upon exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying: (a) The difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the grant price; by (b) The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in Shares of equivalent value, or in some combination thereof. The Committee's determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR. 7.7 Termination of Employment/Directorship. Each SAR Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant's employment or directorship with the Company. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 7.8 Nontransferability of SARs. Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, no SAR granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.
Article 8. Restricted Stock 8.1......Grant of Restricted Stock. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Participants in such amounts as the Committee shall determine. 8.2 Restricted Stock Agreement. Each Restricted Stock grant shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine. 8.3 Nontransferability. Except as provided in this Article 8, the Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement, or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement. All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant for the Period of Restriction. 8.4 Other Restrictions. Subject to Article 10 herein, the Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals (Company-wide, divisional, and/or individual), time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals, and/or restrictions under applicable federal or state securities laws. The Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied. Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall become freely transferable by the Participant after the last day of the applicable Period of Restriction. 8.5 Voting Rights. Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be granted the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction. 8.6 Dividends and Other Distributions. During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be credited or paid regular cash dividends with respect to such Shares or the Committee may apply any restrictions to the payment of dividends that the Committee deems appropriate. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, if the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock granted to a Covered Employee is designed to comply with the requirements of the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may apply any restrictions it deems appropriate to the payment of dividends declared with respect to such Restricted Stock, such that the dividends and/or the Restricted Stock maintain eligibility for the Performance-Based Exception.
8.7 Termination of Employment/Directorship. Each Restricted Stock Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive nonvested Restricted Stock following termination of the Participant's employment or directorship with the Company. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination; provided, however that, except in the cases of terminations connected with a Change in Control and terminations by reason of death or Disability, the vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock which qualify for the Performance-Based Exception and which are held by Covered Employees shall occur at the time they otherwise would have, but for the termination. Article 9. Performance Units and Performance Shares 9.1 Grant of Performance Units/Shares. Subject to the terms of the Plan, Performance Units, and/or Performance Shares may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee. 9.2 Value of Performance Units/Shares. Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number and/or value of Performance Units/Shares that will be paid out to the Participant. For purposes of this Article 9, the time period during which the performance goals must be met shall be called a "Performance Period." 9.3 Earning of Performance Units/Shares. Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units/Shares shall be entitled to receive payout on the number and value of Performance Units/Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved. 9.4 Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Shares. Payment of earned Performance Units/Shares shall be made in a single lump sum following the close of the applicable Performance Period. Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Shares in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) which have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Shares at the close of the applicable Performance Period. Such Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. At the discretion of the Committee, Participants may be entitled to receive any dividends declared with respect to Shares which have been earned in connection with grants of Performance Shares which have been earned, but not yet distributed to Participants. 9.5 Termination of Employment/Directorship Due to Death, Disability or Retirement. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee and set forth in the Participant's Award Agreement, in the event the employment or directorship of a Participant is terminated by reason of death, Disability, or Retirement during a Performance Period, the Participant shall receive a payout of the Performance Units/Shares which is prorated, as specified by the Committee in its discretion. Payment of earned Performance Units/Shares shall be made at a time specified by the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Participant's Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Covered Employees who retire during a Performance Period, payments shall be made at the same time as payments are made to Participants who did not terminate employment during the applicable Performance Period.
9.6 Termination of Employment/Directorship for Other Reasons. In the event that a Participant's employment or directorship terminates for any reason other than those reasons set forth in Section 9.5 herein, all Performance Units/Shares shall be forfeited by the Participant to the Company unless determined otherwise by the Committee, as set forth in the Participant's Award Agreement. 9.7 Nontransferability. Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, Performance Units/Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement, a Participant's rights under the Plan with respect to Performance Units/Shares shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the Participant or the Participant's legal representative. Article 10. Performance Measures Unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder vote and shareholders approve a change in the general performance measures set forth in this Article 10, the attainment of which may determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to Awards to Covered Employees which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the performance measure(s) to be used for purposes of such grants may be measured at the SCANA level, at a subsidiary level, or at an operating unit level and shall be chosen from among: (a) Earnings per share; (b) Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, equity, or sales); (c) Cash flow return on investments which equals net cash flow divided by owners equity; (d) Earnings before or after taxes; (e) Gross revenues; and (f) Share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total shareholder return). The Committee shall have the discretion to adjust the determinations of the degree of attainment of the preestablished performance goals; provided, however, that Awards which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, and which are held by a Covered Employee, may not be adjusted upward (the Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward).
In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit the Committee discretion to alter the governing performance measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards which shall not qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m). In the case of any Award which is granted subject to the condition that a specified performance measure be achieved, no payment under such Award shall be made prior to the time that the Committee certifies in writing that the performance measure has been satisfied. For this purpose, approved minutes of the Committee meeting at which the certification is made will be treated as a written certification. No such certification is required, however, in the case of an Award that is based solely on an increase in the value of a Share from the date such Award was made. Article 11. Beneficiary Designation Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate. Article 12. Deferrals The Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant's receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant by virtue of the exercise of an Option or SAR, the lapse or waiver of restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock, or the satisfaction of any requirements or goals with respect to Performance Units/Shares. If any such deferral election is required or permitted, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for such payment deferrals. Article 13. Rights of Employees/Directors 13.1 Employment. Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate any Participant's employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company. 13.2 Participation. No Eligible Employee or Director shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
Article 14. Change in Control 14.1 Outstanding Awards. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, any and all Options and SARs granted hereunder shall become immediately exercisable, and shall remain exercisable throughout their entire term; and any restriction periods and restrictions imposed on Restricted Stock which are not performance-based shall lapse. The treatment of any other Awards which are performance-based shall be addressed in the Participant's Award Agreement. 14.2 Termination, Amendment, and Modifications of Change-in-Control Provisions. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan (but subject to the limitations of Section 15.3 hereof) or any Award Agreement provision, the provisions of this Article 14 and the "change in control" provisions of any Award Agreement may not be terminated, amended, or modified on or after the date of a Change in Control to affect adversely any Award theretofore granted under the Plan without the prior written consent of the Participant with respect to said Participant's outstanding Awards; provided, however, the Committee may terminate, amend, or modify this Article 14 at any time and from time to time prior to the date of a Change in Control. Article 15. Amendment, Modification and Termination 15.1 Amendment, Modification and Termination. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee may at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part for any purpose which the Committee deems appropriate; provided, however, no amendment shall without shareholder approval (i) increase the total number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan or the maximum awards thereunder as set forth in Section 4.1 (ii) modify the requirements as to eligibility for benefits under the Plan or (iii) reduce the exercise price of an outstanding Option, whether through direct amendment to the exercise price, through cancellation and replacement of the Option, or otherwise. 15.2 Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events. The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 4.3 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan; provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise at the time such adjustment is considered, no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the Plan's meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, as from time to time amended. 15.3 Awards Previously Granted. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary (but subject to Section 14.3 hereof), no termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award. 15.4 Compliance with Code Section 162(m). At all times when Code Section 162(m) is applicable, all Awards granted under this Plan to Covered Employees shall comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m); provided, however, that in the event the Committee determines that such compliance is not desired with respect to any Award or Awards available for grant under the Plan, then compliance with Code Section 162(m) will not be required. In addition, in the event that changes are made to Code Section 162(m) to permit greater flexibility with respect to any Award or Awards available under the Plan, the Committee may, subject to this Article 15, make any adjustments it deems appropriate.
Article 16. Withholding 16.1 Tax Withholding. The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan. 16.2 Share Withholding. With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock, or upon any other taxable event arising as a result of Awards granted hereunder, Participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having SCANA withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax which could be imposed on the transaction. All such elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing, and signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. Article 17. Indemnification Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by SCANA against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with SCANA's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give SCANA an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under SCANA's Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that SCANA may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless. Article 18. Successors All obligations of SCANA under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to SCANA.
Article 19. Legal Construction 19.1 Gender and Number. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural. 19.2 Severability. In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. 19.3 Requirements of Law. The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. 19.4 Securities Law Compliance. With respect to officers and directors of the Company subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, transactions under this Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the Exchange Act. To the extent any provision of the Plan or action by the Committee fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Committee. 19.5 Governing Law. To the extent not preempted by federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of South Carolina.


