FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20060427082927.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
       240.14d-2(b))
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
      240.13e-4(c))
This combined Form 8-K is separately furnished by SCANA Corporation, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated. Information contained herein relating to any individual company is furnished by such company on its own behalf. Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other companies.
Item 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On April 27, 2006, SCANA Corporation (SCANA, and together with its subsidiaries, the Company) issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The press release discloses a non-GAAP measure, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations, which in 2006 excludes from net income the effect of the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards  123(R) The Companys management believes that GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provides a meaningful representation of the Companys fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data. In managements opinion, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Companys primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for managements provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it.
Share-Based Payment.
 
Item 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated April 27, 2006.
       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. The signature of each registrant shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such registrant and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
 
 
Number
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   Exhibit 99.1
   
   
   
 
 
   
                             For Immediate Release
                     Media Contact:
 
 
                   
Investor Contact:
                     Eric Boomhower
  
 
John Winn
                     (803) 217-7701
 
 
                   (803) 217-9240
                     
eboomhower@scana.com
           
jwinn@scana.com
Columbia, SC, April 27, 2006...
SCANA Corporation (NYSE: SCG) today reported consolidated earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2006 of $98 million, or $.85 per share, compared to $101 million, or $.89 per share, for the same period in 2005. Results for the current period include a net after-tax gain of $6 million, or $.05 per share, reflecting the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for equity based compensation resulting from the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. Excluding that gain, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations for the first quarter of 2006 were $92 million, or $.80 per share.
January saw record warm temperatures across the nation, and South Carolina was no different, said Kevin Marsh, senior vice president and chief financial officer. The impact of the milder weather in our electric business compared to last year accounted for $.07 per share of the $.09 per share decline in first quarter GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations. In our natural gas businesses, the extremely mild weather early in the quarter, combined with customer conservation efforts in response to high natural gas commodity prices, contributed to a $.05 per share decline in our consolidated sales margin.
Marsh noted that first quarter earnings per share were also impacted by dilution reflecting the issuance of new shares of common stock through the Companys stock plans. The lower electric and natural gas sales margins and share dilution more than offset the favorable impact on earnings of the 5.69 percent retail natural gas rate increase at South Carolina Electric & Gas Company that was effective in November of last year and continued growth in our electric and natural gas customer base.
SCANAs reported earnings are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). SCANAs management believes that, in addition to reported earnings under GAAP, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provides a meaningful representation of the Companys fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data.
In managements opinion, the GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Companys primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for managements provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it.
 
A reconciliation of reported (GAAP) earnings per share to GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations per share for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 is provided in the following table:
 
Milder weather was the principal factor contributing to a 3.0 percent decline in total kilowatt-hour sales of electricity in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the same quarter in 2005. As measured by heating degree days, temperatures across the Companys electric service territory were 5 percent warmer than last year. As a result, residential sales, which are particularly weather-sensitive, were down 5.8 percent. Sales to industrial customers declined 3.8 percent while commercial sales rose 1.4 percent. Wholesale, or off-system, sales were down 4.3 percent, also due in part to milder weather.
The impact of milder weather compared to last year was also a primary contributor to a 10.8 percent decline in retail dekatherm sales of natural gas in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the same quarter in 2005. Residential sales declined 14.7 percent, while commercial and industrial sales were down 8.4 percent and 7.8 percent, respectively. Total dekatherm sales of natural gas, which include sales for resale and transportation volumes, were down 14.3 percent.
 
As of March 31, 2006, SCANA was serving approximately 1.2 million natural gas customers in its three-state service area, up 1.8 percent over the past year.
FINANCIAL RESULTS BY MAJOR LINES OF BUSINESS
South Carolina Electric & Gas Company
South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G), SCANAs principal subsidiary, reported earnings in the first quarter of 2006 of $48 million, or $.42 per share, down from $52 million, or $.46 per share, in the same quarter last year. That decline was due mainly to lower sales of electricity and natural gas reflecting milder weather, and to higher operating expenses. At March 31, 2006, SCE&G was serving approximately 613,000 electric customers and approximately 294,000 natural gas customers, representing increases of 2.8 percent and 2.9 percent, respectively, from the same time last year.
PSNC Energy
PSNC Energy, SCANAs retail natural gas subsidiary headquartered in Gastonia, North Carolina, reported earnings of $23 million, or $.20 per share, in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $24 million, or $.21 per share, in the first quarter of 2005. The decline was due primarily to milder weather
.
At March 31, 2006, PSNC Energy was serving approximately 428,000 natural gas customers, an increase of 3.4 percent over the last twelve months.
South Carolina Pipeline Corporation
South Carolina Pipeline Corporation, SCANAs intrastate natural gas transmission subsidiary, reported earnings in the first quarter of 2006 of $3 million, or $.03 per share, compared to earnings of $4 million, or $.03 per share, in the first quarter of 2005. Increased transportation revenues were offset by lower industrial sales volumes.
 
SCANA Energy - Georgia
SCANA Energy, the Companys retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia, reported earnings of $21 million, or $.19 per share, in the first quarter of 2006, compared to earnings of $22 million, or $.20 per share, in the first quarter of 2005. A lower sales margin resulting primarily from milder weather was partially offset by lower operating expenses. At March 31, 2006, SCANA Energy was serving more than 475,000 customers, maintaining its position as the number two natural gas marketer in Georgia.
Corporate and Other
SCANAs corporate and other businesses, which include Primesouth, SCANA Communications, ServiceCare, SCANA Energy Marketing, SCG Pipeline, SCANA Services and the holding company, reported earnings of $1 million, or $.01 per share, in the first quarter of 2006, compared to a reported loss of $1 million, or $.01 per share, in the first quarter of 2005.
EXPLANATION OF ITEMS INCLUDED IN REPORTED (GAAP) EARNINGS BUT EXCLUDED FROM GAAP-ADJUSTED NET EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS
On January 1, 2006, SCANA adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),
Share-Based Payment [SFAS 123(R)],
an accounting standard that changes the way the cost of equity based compensation is recorded. For many years, SCANA has annually granted long-term equity based compensation awards, the ultimate payout value of which has been dependent upon the Companys performance against pre-determined measures of total shareholder return and growth in earnings per share over a three year plan cycle.  Because of the annual pattern of those awards, and pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No 25,
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
, the bulk of each annual plans compensation cost has traditionally been recorded in such plans respective grant year. Under SFAS 123(R), compensation is required to be recorded ratably over each plans full three year performance cycle.  As such, the cumulative effect of the adoption of SFAS 123(R) on January 1, 2006 resulted in a $ .05 per share (net of tax) gain in the first quarter of 2006 based on a reduction of prior compensation accruals for awards granted in 2004 and 2005.
APPLICATION FILED TO MERGE NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION COMPANIES
In response to changes in the natural gas marketplace, on February 27, 2006, South Carolina Pipeline Corporation (SCPC) and SCG Pipeline, Inc. filed an application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) requesting approval to merge into a single company named Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation. Instead of providing bundled natural gas procurement and delivery services, this new company would operate as a Federally-regulated, transportation-only natural gas transmission company that sells capacity on its pipeline but would no longer purchase and sell natural gas, thereby allowing SCPCs large natural gas customers to manage their own purchasing strategies. The combination of these two companies would help reduce future earnings volatility and broaden opportunities for growth in this segment of SCANAs business. The application requests that the FERC approve the merger in time for the new company to commence operations prior to the 2006-2007 winter heating season, which begins November 1, 2006.
RETAIL NATURAL GAS RATE FILING IN NORTH CAROLINA
On April 3, 2006, PSNC Energy filed an application with the North Carolina Utilities Commission requesting an increase of approximately $28 million, or 4.9 percent, in the companys retail natural gas base rates. In addition, the application requests a reduction of $7.5 million in the fixed-cost portion of its cost of gas. The net effect is a requested increase of $20.9 million, or 3.6 percent, in PSNC Energys base rates. Hearings on the companys request are expected to be held this fall. If approved, the requested rates would go into effect in November 2006 and would represent the first increase in PSNC Energys retail base rates since 1998.
2006 EARNINGS OUTLOOK
The Company reaffirms its previous guidance that 2006 earnings are expected to be in the range of $2.80 - $2.95 per share. The 2006 guidance assumes normal weather in the Companys electric and natural gas service areas for the remainder of the year and excludes any gains or losses from litigation, changes in accounting principles or sales of certain assets. Other factors that may impact future earnings are discussed in the Companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Companys goal is to achieve average annual earnings growth of 4-6 percent over the next 3-5 years.
CONFERENCE CALL NOTICE
SCANA will host its quarterly conference call for security analysts at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Friday, April 28, 2006. The call-in numbers for the conference call are 1-866-831-6234 (US/Canada) and 1-617-213-8854 (International). The event code is 86820648. Participants should call in 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available approximately 2 hours after conclusion of the call through May 12, 2006. The telephone replay numbers are 1-888-286-8010 (US/Canada) and 1-617-801-6888 (International). The event code for the telephone replay is 81306652. A replay and transcript of the conference call will also be available on the Investor Information section of the Companys web site.
All interested persons, including investors, media and the general public, may listen to a live web cast of the conference call at the Companys web site at
www.scana.com
. Participants should go to the web site at least 5 to 10 minutes prior to the call start time and follow the instructions.
PROFILE
 
SCANA Corporation, a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Columbia, SC, is an energy-based holding company principally engaged, through subsidiaries, in electric and natural gas utility operations and other energy-related businesses. The Company serves approximately 613,000 electric customers in South Carolina and more than 1.2 million natural gas customers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. Information about SCANA and its businesses is available on the Companys website at
www.scana.com
.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Statements included in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are
intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward-looking statements" for purposes of the
safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and/or continuing review and adjustment, (2) regulatory actions or changes in the utility and nonutility regulatory environment, (3) current and future litigation, (4) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by the Company's subsidiaries, (5) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, including competition from alternate fuels in industrial interruptible markets, (6) growth opportunities for the Company's regulated and diversified subsidiaries, (7) the results of financing efforts, (8) changes in accounting principles, (9) weather conditions, especially in areas served by the Company's subsidiaries, (10) performance of the Company's pension plan assets, (11) inflation, (12) changes in environmental regulations, (13) volatility in commodity natural gas markets and (14) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the Company's periodic reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
Note (1): In January 2005, the South Carolina Public Service Commission approved an accounting methodology
which allows the Company to recover the cost of the Lake Murray back-up dam project through the application of
net synthetic fuel tax credits generated from its synthetic fuel partnerships. Under this methodology, beginning
January 1, 2005, the Company recognized its accumulated synthetic fuel tax credits to offset an equal amount of
accelerated depreciation on the dam project, net of partnership losses and income tax benefits. Recognition of
accelerated depreciation related to the back-up dam costs will continue quarterly to the extent net synthetic fuel
tax credits are available. While these entries result in a reduction in operating income, there is no impact on net income. However, the Company is allowed to record non-cash carrying costs on the unrecovered investment. The impact of these entries in the Income Statement and Balance Sheet is shown in the tables below:
 
 
Note (2): Excludes the impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) that resulted
in a net after-tax gain of $.05 per share in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Note (3): This variance analysis reflects earnings per share (EPS) components on an after-tax basis,
with income tax benefits applied as per the January 6, 2005 electric rate order. See Note (1) to the
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
 
 
 
Note (4): The current periods reflect a reclassification and realignment of customers effective in 2005. Prior periods have been restated to conform to the current year presentation.
 
 
 
 
 


