FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20060728090724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
240.13e-4(c))
 
This combined Form 8-K is separately furnished by SCANA Corporation, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated. Information contained herein relating to any individual company is furnished by such company on its own behalf. Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other companies.
 
 
Item 2.02
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On July 28, 2006, SCANA Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the Company) issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The press release discloses a non-GAAP measure, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations, which in 2006 excludes from net income the effects of the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards  123(R), Share-Based Payment, and
the favorable settlement of certain litigation and in 2005 excludes from net income the effects of sales of certain investments.
The Companys management believes that GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provides a meaningful representation of the Companys fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data. In managements opinion, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Companys primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for managements provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it.
Item 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)
 
Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1
 
Press release dated July 28, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. The signature of each registrant shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such registrant and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
 
 
Number
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Columbia, SC, July 28, 2006...
SCANA Corporation (NYSE: SCG) reported earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, of $58 million, or 50 cents per share, compared to $44 million, or 39 cents per share for the same period in 2005. Reported earnings for the current quarter include approximately $5 million, or 4 cents per share, related to the favorable settlement of litigation associated with the sale of the Companys propane assets in 1999, as more fully discussed below. Reported earnings for the second quarter of 2005 include an after-tax gain of $4 million, or 3 cents per share, related to monetization of the Companys telecommunications investments. Excluding these items in both periods, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations for the second quarter of 2006 were $53 million, or 46 cents per share, compared to $40 million, or 36 cents per share, for the same period in 2005.
SCANAs reported earnings are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). SCANAs management believes that, in addition to reported earnings under
GAAP, the GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provides a meaningful representation of
the Companys fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data. In managements opinion, the GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Companys primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for managements provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it. A reconciliation of reported (GAAP) earnings per share to GAAP-adjusted net earnings per share from operations for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 is provided in the following table:
 
The improvement in earnings was primarily attributable to 28 percent warmer weather across the Companys electric service area during the second quarter, as measured by cooling degree days, compared to the same period last year,  said Jimmy Addison, senior vice president and chief financial officer. We also recorded a small increase in margins on sales of natural gas to industry during the quarter. 
At June 30, 2006, the Company was serving approximately 1.2 million natural gas customers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia, a 2.2 percent increase compared to the same date last year.
For the first six months of 2006, SCANA reported GAAP earnings of $156 million, or $1.35 per share, compared to $145 million, or $1.28 per share, for the same period in 2005. The 2006 year- to- date results include an after- tax gain of $6 million, or 5 cents per share, reflecting the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for equity based compensation [SFAS 123(R)] recorded in the first quarter, and the reduced accrual of $5 million, or 4 cents per share, related to the propane litigation settlement in the second quarter. The 2005 year- to - date results include the after- tax gain of $4 million, or 3 cents per share, related to the sale of the Companys telecommunications investment in the second quarter. Excluding these items, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations for the first six months of 2006 were $145 million, or $1.26 per share compared to $141 million, or $1.25 per share, for the same period last year.
The one cent per share improvement in year- to- date GAAP- adjusted net earnings per share from operations reflects a higher electric margin driven by customer growth and off-system sales, offset by a lower natural gas margin principally reflecting the impact of milder weather and customer conservation efforts in the first quarter, said Addison.
RESULTS BY MAJOR LINES OF BUSINESS
 
South Carolina Electric & Gas Company
Reported earnings in the second quarter of 2006 at South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G) were $52 million, or 45 cents per share, compared to $39 million, or 34 cents per share, in the second quarter of 2005. The increase was due primarily to higher electric sales arising from warmer weather, and to customer growth. At June 30, 2006, SCE&G was serving approximately 617,000 electric customers and 292,000 natural gas customers, up 2.8 percent and 3.1 percent, respectively, over the past year.
PSNC Energy
PSNC Energy, the Companys North Carolina-based retail natural gas distribution subsidiary, reported a seasonal loss of $4 million, or 3 cents per share, in the second quarter of 2006, compared to a loss of $2 million, or 1 cent per share, in the second quarter of 2005. Lower sales of natural gas due primarily to warmer weather more than offset the favorable impact of customer growth. At June 30, 2006, PSNC Energy was serving approximately 421,000 customers, an increase of 4.1 percent over the last twelve months.
South Carolina Pipeline Corporation
South Carolina Pipeline, SCANAs intrastate natural gas transmission subsidiary, reported earnings of $4 million, or 4 cents per share, in the second quarter of 2006, compared to earnings of $2 million, or 2 cents per share, in the same quarter last year. The increase was due primarily to improved margins on competitive sales of natural gas to industrial interruptible customers combined with higher transportation revenues.
SCANA Energy - Georgia
SCANA Energy, the Companys retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia, reported earnings of $2 million, or 2 cents per share, in the second quarter of 2006, compared to $1 million, or 1 cent per share, in the second quarter of 2005. That increase was due primarily to slightly higher margins on sales driven by a lower cost of gas. At June 30, 2006, SCANA Energy was serving approximately 475,000 customers, maintaining the companys position as the second largest natural gas marketer in Georgia with about a 30 percent market share.
Corporate and Other
SCANAs corporate and other businesses, which include Primesouth, SCANA Communications, ServiceCare, SCANA Energy Marketing, SCG Pipeline, SCANA Services and the holding company, reported combined earnings of $3 million, or 2 cents per share, in the second quarter of 2006, compared to earnings of $4 million, or 3 cents per share, in the same quarter last year. Excluding the previously mentioned impact of the propane litigation settlement in the second quarter of this year and the sale of telecommunications assets in the second quarter of last year, these companies recorded a GAAP-adjusted loss in the second quarter of 2006 of $2 million, or 2 cents per share, compared to breakeven results in the second quarter of 2005. That decline was primarily attributable to a reduction in estimated royalties earned by
Primesouth for its operation of a non-affiliated synthetic fuel production facility.
FERC APPROVES APPLICATION TO MERGE NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION
SUBSIDIARIES
O
n July 20, 2006, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) approved the merger of SCG Pipeline, Inc. into South Carolina Pipeline Corporation to form Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation. The merger of the Companys two wholly-owned natural gas transmission subsidiaries is expected to be effective by October 1, 2006. 
 
South Carolina Pipeline is an intrastate company that purchases, transports and sells natural gas to distribution companies and industrial customers through an extensive pipeline system in South Carolina. SCG Pipeline is an interstate pipeline that transports natural gas in Georgia and South Carolina. Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation will operate as an open access, interstate pipeline company that provides only transportation services rather than bundled services, and its operations and rates will be subject to FERC regulation.
We are pleased that the FERC approved our application to merge these two companies into a single interstate natural gas transportation company, said Paul Fant, president and chief operating officer of South Carolina Pipeline and SCG Pipeline. We believe the combination of these companies will give our customers increased control and flexibility over their natural gas supply options while helping to stabilize future earnings and broaden opportunities for growth in this segment of our business.
PROPANE LITIGATION SETTLED
In 1999, an unsuccessful bidder for the purchase of certain propane gas assets of the Company filed suit against SCANA in Circuit Court, seeking unspecified damages. Following a jury verdict in October 2004, and in accordance with GAAP, the Company had accrued a liability of $18 million dollars, or 10 cents per share after- tax. In the second quarter of 2006, SCANA reached a settlement agreement under which the Company paid $11 million, or 6 cents per share after - tax, to settle the lawsuit. Because the consideration ultimately paid under the settlement agreement is less than what was accrued, the Company reduced that accrual by $5 million, or 4 cents per share, in the second quarter of 2006. The Courts procedural process for disposing of the litigation is underway.
2006 EARNINGS OUTLOOK
The Company currently expects that GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations in 2006 will be within the previously announced range of $2.80 - $2.95 per share. Taking into consideration the gain of 5 cents per share from an accounting change in the first quarter and the reduced accrual of 4 cents per share related to the propane litigation settlement in the second quarter, the Company anticipates that reported (GAAP) earnings in 2006 will be 9 cents per share higher than the GAAP-adjusted net earnings per share from operations. The 2006 guidance assumes normal weather in the Companys electric and natural gas service areas during the remainder of the year. Other factors that may impact future earnings are discussed in the Companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings and below under the Safe Harbor Statement. The Companys goal is to achieve average annual earnings growth of 4-6 percent over the next 3-5 years.
CONFERENCE CALL NOTICE
SCANA will host its quarterly conference call for security analysts at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time
today. The call-in numbers for the conference call are
1-866-831-6267
 
(US/Canada) and
1-617-213-8857
 
(International). The event code is
75607234
. Participants should call in 5 to 10
minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available
approximately 2 hours after conclusion of the call through August 11, 2005. To access the telephone replay, call 1-888-286-8010 (US/Canada) or 1-617-801-6888 (International) and enter the event code
42332005
.
 
All interested persons, including investors, media and the general public, may listen to a live web cast of the conference call at the Companys web site at
www.scana.com
. Participants should go to the web site at least 5 to 10 minutes prior to the call start time and follow the instructions. A replay of the web cast will also be available on the Companys web site approximately 2 hours after conclusion of the call through August 11, 2006.
PROFILE
 
SCANA Corporation, a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Columbia, SC, is an energy-based holding company principally engaged, through subsidiaries, in electric and natural gas utility operations and other energy-related businesses. Information about SCANA and its businesses is available on the Companys web site at
www.scana.com.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
 
Statements included in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward-looking statements" for purposes of the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and/or continuing review and adjustment, (2) regulatory actions or changes in the utility and non-utility regulatory environment, (3) current and future litigation, (4) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by the Company's subsidiaries, (5) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, including competition from alternate fuels in industrial interruptible markets, (6) growth opportunities for the Company's regulated and diversified subsidiaries, (7) the results of financing efforts, (8) changes in accounting principles, (9) weather conditions, especially in areas served by the Company's subsidiaries, (10) performance of the Company's pension plan assets, (11) inflation, (12) changes in environmental regulations, (13) volatility in commodity natural gas markets and (14) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the Company's periodic reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements
.
 
Note (1): In January 2005, the South Carolina Public Service Commission approved an accounting methodology which allows the Company to recover the cost of the Lake Murray back-up dam project through the application of net synthetic fuel tax credits generated from its synthetic fuel partnerships. Under this methodology, beginning January 1, 2005, the Company recognized its accumulated synthetic fuel tax credits to offset an equal amount of accelerated depreciation on the dam project, net of partnership losses and income tax benefits. Recognition of accelerated depreciation related to the back-up dam costs will continue quarterly to the extent net synthetic fuel tax credits are available. While these entries result in a reduction in operating income, there is no impact on net income. The Company is allowed to record non-cash carrying costs on the un-recovered investment. The impact of these entries in the Income Statement and Balance Sheet is shown in the tables below:
 
Income Statement Impact (millions):
Balance Sheet Impact (millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


