FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20070426094856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
     (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
This combined Form 8-K is separately furnished by SCANA Corporation and South Carolina Electric & Gas Company. Information contained herein relating to any individual company is furnished by such company on its own behalf. Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other company.
Item 2.02
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On April 26, 2007, SCANA Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the Company) issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The press release discloses a non-GAAP measure, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations, which in 2006 excludes from net income the effects of the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R), Share-Based Payment.
 
The Companys management believes that GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provides a meaningful representation of the Companys fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data. In managements opinion, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Companys primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for managements provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it.
Item 9.01
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)
 
Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1
 
Press release dated April 26, 2007.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. The signature of each registrant shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such registrant and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
 
 
Number
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                 For Immediate Release
                                               Media Contact:
 
 
         
Investor Contact:
                                               Eric Boomhower
 
 
        Bryan Hatchell
                                               (803) 217-7701
 
 
           (803) 217-7458
                                               
eboomhower@scana.com
   
bhatchell@scana.com
Columbia, SC, April 26, 2007...
SCANA Corporation (NYSE: SCG) today reported consolidated earnings for the first quarter of 2007 of $86 million, or $.73 per share, compared to $98 million, or $.85 per share, for the first quarter of 2006.
Excluding from the prior years results a net after-tax gain of $6 million, or $.05 per share, reflecting the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for equity based compensation resulting from the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations for the first quarter of 2006 were $92 million, or $.80 per share.
The $.07 per share decline in GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations reflects several factors, said Jimmy Addison, senior vice president and chief financial officer. In our regulated businesses, we recorded increases in operating and maintenance expenses, depreciation expense and property taxes and lower total sales of electricity. These negative variances more than offset improved sales margins in our natural gas operations in South Carolina and North Carolina principally reflecting customer growth and general rate increases that went into effect in November 2006. We also had slightly lower earnings in our non-regulated retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia reflecting milder weather and higher expenses.
Driven by a 4.2 percent increase in sales to residential and commercial customers, retail kilowatt-hour sales of electricity in the first quarter of 2007 were up nearly 3 percent compared to the first quarter of 2006. Industrial sales were down about 1 percent, primarily reflecting the impact of some plant closings in mid- 2006. Wholesale, or off-system, sales were down 37 percent, reflecting lower regional demand for power driven by milder weather and ongoing maintenance at several of the Companys base load electric generating facilities during the quarter. As a result, total kilowatt-hour sales of electricity for the quarter were down 3 percent compared to the first quarter of 2006.
Addison said that the decline in off-system sales of electricity more than offset the favorable impact of nearly 3 percent overall customer growth and accounted for a decrease in the electric margin compared to the first quarter of 2006. He noted that weather was not much of a factor year-over-year. Although the weather across our electric service area in the first quarter was pretty similar to the same quarter last year, it was about 7 percent milder than normal as measured by heating degree days. Had we experienced normal weather during the quarter, our electric margin would have been about $.03 per share higher.
Total dekatherm sales of natural gas in the first quarter of 2007 were up 43 percent compared to the same period in 2006. Residential sales were up 12 percent, reflecting customer growth and more
favorable weather in portions of the Companys three-state natural gas service area. Sales to
commercial and industrial customers also showed year-over-year improvement. Transportation volumes more than doubled for the quarter, primarily reflecting the new business model resulting from the November 2006 merger of South Carolina Pipeline Corporation and SCG Pipeline to form Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation, a transportation-only pipeline company. During the past year, the Companys overall natural gas customer base increased 2.9 percent to approximately 1,240,000 as of March 31, 2007.
SCANAs reported earnings are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). SCANAs management believes that, in addition to reported earnings under GAAP, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provides a meaningful representation of the Companys fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data.
In managements opinion, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Companys primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for managements provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it.
 
A reconciliation of reported (GAAP) earnings per share to GAAP-adjusted net earnings per share from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 is provided in the following table:
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS BY MAJOR LINES OF BUSINESS
South Carolina Electric & Gas Company
South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G), SCANAs principal subsidiary, reported earnings in the first quarter of 2007 of $37 million, or $.32 per share, compared to $49 million, or $.42 per share, in the same quarter last year. The lower earnings were attributable to increases in operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation expense and property taxes and a lower margin on sales of electricity. These negative variances more than offset growth in SCE&Gs electric customer base and an improved margin on sales of natural gas reflecting customer growth and a general rate increase that went into effect in November 2006. At March 31, 2007, SCE&G was serving approximately 630,000 electric customers and approximately 301,000 natural gas customers, up 2.8 percent and 2.3 percent, respectively, from the same time last year.
PSNC Energy
PSNC Energy, SCANAs retail natural gas subsidiary headquartered in Gastonia, North Carolina, reported earnings of $27 million, or $.23 per share, in the first quarter of 2007, compared to $23 million, or $.20 per share, in the first quarter of 2006.
Customer growth, more favorable weather and a general rate increase that went into effect in November of 2006 contributed to that improvement.
At March 31, 2007, PSNC Energy was serving approximately 446,000 natural gas customers, an increase of 4.1 percent over the last twelve months.
Carolina Gas Transmission
Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation, which was created from the merger of South Carolina Pipeline Corporation and SCG Pipeline in November 2006, reported earnings in the first quarter of 2007 of $3 million, or $.02 per share. Earnings for these companies on a combined basis in the first quarter of 2006 were $4 million, or $.04 per share. The decline was primarily attributable to lower margins associated with the companys new transportation-only business model.
 
SCANA Energy
SCANA Energy, the Companys retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia, reported earnings of $18 million, or $.16 per share, in the first quarter of 2007, compared to $21 million, or $.19 per share, in the first quarter of 2006. A slightly lower sales margin due in part to milder weather, combined with higher operating expenses, contributed to the reduced earnings. At March 31, 2007, SCANA Energy was serving more than 490,000 customers in Georgia, maintaining its position as the second largest natural gas marketer in the state.
Corporate and Other Non-Regulated
SCANAs corporate and other non-regulated businesses, which include Primesouth, SCANA Communications, ServiceCare, SCANA Energy Marketing, and the holding company, reported breakeven results for the first quarter of 2007, unchanged compared to the first quarter of 2006.
2007 EARNINGS OUTLOOK
The Company reaffirms its previous guidance that 2007 earnings are expected to be in the range of $2.70 - $2.85 per share. The 2007 guidance assumes normal weather in the Companys electric and natural gas service areas for the remainder of the year and excludes any potential impact from changes in accounting principles and gains or losses from certain investing activities, litigation, and sales of assets. Other factors that may impact future earnings are discussed in the Companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Companys goal is to achieve average annual earnings growth of 4-6 percent over the next 3-5 years.
CONFERENCE CALL NOTICE
SCANA will host its quarterly conference call for security analysts at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Friday, April 27, 2007. The call-in numbers for the conference call are 1-888-396-2386 (US/Canada) and 1-617-847-8712 (International). The passcode is 84448908. Participants should call in 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available approximately 2 hours after conclusion of the call through May 11, 2007. The telephone replay numbers are 1-888-286-8010 (US/Canada) and 1-617-801-6888 (International). The passcode for the telephone replay is 17430763.
All interested persons, including investors, media and the general public, may listen to a live web cast of the conference call at the Companys web site at
www.scana.com
. Participants should go to the web site at least 5 to 10 minutes prior to the call start time and follow the instructions. A replay of the web cast will also be available on the Companys web site approximately 2 hours after conclusion of the call through May 11, 2007.
PROFILE
 
SCANA Corporation, a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Columbia, SC, is an energy-based holding company principally engaged, through subsidiaries, in electric and natural gas utility operations and other energy-related businesses. The Company serves approximately 630,000 electric customers in South Carolina and more than 1.2 million natural gas customers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. Information about SCANA and its businesses is available on the Companys website at
www.scana.com
.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Statements included in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward-looking statements" for purposes of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning key earnings drivers, customer growth, environmental regulations and expenditures, leverage ratio, projections for pension fund contributions, financing activities, access to sources of capital, impacts of the adoption of new accounting rules, estimated construction and other expenditures and factors affecting the availability of synthetic fuel tax credits. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, could, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, projects, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and/or continuing review and adjustment; (2) regulatory actions, particularly changes in rate regulation and environmental regulations; (3) current and future litigation; (4) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by subsidiaries of SCANA Corporation (SCANA, and together with its subsidiaries, the Company); (5) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, including competition from alternate fuels in industrial interruptible markets; (6) growth opportunities for the Companys regulated and diversified subsidiaries; (7) the results of financing efforts; (8) changes in accounting principles and in the Companys accounting policies; (9) weather conditions, especially in areas served by the Companys subsidiaries; (10) payment by counterparties as and when due; (11) the availability of fuels such as coal, natural gas and enriched uranium used to produce electricity; the availability of purchased power and natural gas for distribution; the level and volatility of future market prices for such fuels and purchased power; and the ability to recover the costs for such fuels and purchased power; (12) performance of the Company's pension plan assets; (13) inflation; (14) compliance with regulations; and (15) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the Companys periodic reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
Note (1): In January 2005, the South Carolina Public Service Commission approved an accounting methodology
    which allows the Company to recover the cost of the Lake Murray back-up dam project through the application of
    net synthetic fuel tax credits generated from its synthetic fuel partnerships. Under this methodology, beginning
    January 1, 2005, the Company recognized its accumulated synthetic fuel tax credits to offset an equal amount of
    accelerated depreciation on the dam project, net of partnership losses and income tax benefits. Recognition of
    accelerated depreciation related to the back-up dam costs will continue quarterly to the extent net synthetic fuel
    tax credits are available. While these entries result in a reduction in operating income, there is no impact on net income.  
    However, the Company is allowed to record non-cash carrying costs on the unrecovered investment. The impact of
    these  entries in the Income Statement and Balance Sheet is shown in the tables below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note (2): Prior period reflects earnings for South Carolina Pipeline Corporation and SCG Pipeline, Inc., which merged to
              form Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation effective November 1, 2006
Note (3): Excludes impact of SFAS No. 123 (R) accounting change
 
Note (4): This variance analysis reflects earnings per share (EPS) components on an after-tax basis,
with income tax benefits applied as per the January 6, 2005 electric rate order. See Note (1) to the
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
 


