FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20080215085241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
This combined Form 8-K is separately furnished by SCANA Corporation and South Carolina Electric & Gas Company.  Information contained herein relating to any individual company is furnished by such company on its own behalf.  Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other company.
 
 
 
Item 2.02         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On February 15, 2008, SCANA Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the Company) issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  The press release discloses a non-GAAP measure, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations, which in 2006 excludes from net income the effects of the Companys adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R), Share-Based Payment and the favorable settlement of certain litigation. The Companys management believes that GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provides a meaningful representation of the Companys fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data. In managements opinion, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Companys primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for managements provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it.
Item 8.01         OTHER EVENTS
On February 15, 2008, the Company posted information titled2008 - 2010 Projections for Capital Expenditures to its website at www.scana.com.  The information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)           Exhibits
      Exhibit 99.1       Press release dated February 15, 2008.
      Exhibit 99.2       2008  2010 Projections for Capital Expenditures
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  The signature of each registrant shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such registrant and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
 
 
Number
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
        
 
 
 
                       
For Immediate Release
 
 
 
 
SCANA Corporation (NYSE: SCG) today announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2007and affirmed its previous guidance for 2008 earnings.
Columbia, SC, February 15, 2008...
 
 
FULL YEAR RESULTS
 
For the year ended December 31, 2007, SCANA reported earnings on a GAAP basis of $320 million, or $2.74 per share, compared to $310 million, or $2.68 per share, in 2006. GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations for 2006, which excludes certain items listed in the table below, were $299 million, or $2.59 per share.
 
 
We are pleased with the financial results we achieved in 2007, said Jimmy Addison, senior vice president and chief financial officer. The Companys 2007 earnings of $2.74 per share were up 5.8 percent from 2006 GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations and in-line with our guidance.
 
 
The improvement in SCANAs earnings was primarily attributable to higher margins on sales of electricity and natural gas and charges in 2006 related to the FERC settlement agreement, which more than offset higher operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation and property taxes and lower synthetic fuel royalties related to the Companys former subsidiary, Primesouth. The higher electric margin was primarily due to increased kilowatt-hour sales of electricity driven by solid customer growth. The higher natural gas margin was due to customer growth and rate increases at South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and PSNC Energy.
 
 
In 2008, we expect to deliver continued improvement in our financial results and increased value for our shareholders by remaining focused on activities that have always made us successful, including providing safe, reliable electric and natural gas services and outstanding customer care, said Addison.
 
 
SCANAs reported earnings are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). SCANAs management believes that, in addition to reported earnings under GAAP, the GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations provide a meaningful representation of the Companys fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data. In managements opinion, GAAP-adjusted net earnings from operations is a useful indicator of the financial results of the Companys primary businesses. This measure is also a basis for managements provision of earnings guidance and growth projections, and it is used by management in making resource allocation and other budgetary and operational decisions. This non-GAAP performance measure is not intended to replace the GAAP measure of net earnings, but is offered as a supplement to it. A reconciliation of reported (GAAP) earnings per share to GAAP-adjusted net earnings per share from operations for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2007, and 2006 is provided in the following table:
FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS
SCANAs reported (GAAP) earnings in the fourth quarter of 2007 were $88 million, or 75 cents per share, compared to $65 million, or 57 cents per share for the same quarter in 2006.
The 18 cents per share increase in fourth quarter earnings was due in part to higher electric sales driven by customer growth and increased wholesale sales, said Addison. In addition, earnings were higher compared to the previous year due to the sale of a bankruptcy claim related to a long-term pipeline capacity contract at Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation and the charges in 2006 related to the FERC settlement agreement.
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS BY MAJOR LINES OF BUSINESS
South Carolina Electric & Gas Company
Reported earnings for 2007 at South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G), SCANAs principal subsidiary, were $245 million, or $2.10 per share, compared to $234 million, or $2.02 per share, in 2006.  For the fourth quarter of 2007, SCE&G had reported earnings of $56 million, or 48 cents per share, compared to $40 million, or 34 cents per share in the same quarter in 2006. The improvement of per share earnings in both periods was due primarily to higher electric margins driven by customer growth and the charges related to the FERC settlement agreement in 2006.  At year-end 2007, SCE&G was serving approximately 639,000 electric and 303,000 natural gas customers, representing increases of 2.6 percent and 1.8 percent, respectively, over the past year.
PSNC Energy
PSNC Energy, the Companys North Carolina-based retail natural gas distribution subsidiary, reported 2007 earnings of $35 million, or 30 cents per share, compared to $26 million, or 23 cents per share, in 2006. Reported earnings in the fourth quarter of 2007 were $16 million, or 13 cents per share, compared to $13 million, or 12 cents per share, in the fourth quarter of 2006. Improvements in both periods were due primarily to higher sales margin driven by customer growth and an increase in base rates that was effective November 1, 2006. At year end, PSNC Energy was serving approximately 457,000 customers, an increase of 3.6 percent over the last twelve months.
Carolina Gas Transmission
Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation, which was created from the merger of South Carolina Pipeline Corporation and SCG Pipeline in November 2006, reported earnings of $14 million, or 12 cents per share, in 2007, compared to $15 million, or 13 cents per share, in 2006. For the fourth quarter of 2007, CGTC reported earnings of $7 million, or 6 cents per share, compared to $2 million, or 2 cents per share in the fourth quarter of 2006. The decline in full year earnings is due to lower margins associated with the companys new transportation-only business model which more than offset the recognition of interest income and amortization in the fourth quarter resulting from the sale of a bankruptcy claim related to a long-term pipeline capacity contract.
SCANA Energy  Georgia
SCANA Energy, the Companys retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia, reported 2007 earnings of $27 million, or 24 cents per share, compared to $30 million, or 27 cents per share, in 2006. Earnings in the fourth quarter of 2007 were $8 million, or 7 cents per share, compared to $9 million, or 8 cents per share in the fourth quarter of 2006. The lower per share earnings in both periods reflect reduced sales margins due to milder weather in the fourth quarter and higher operating expenses. SCANA Energy was serving more than 475,000 customers at year-end 2007, maintaining its position as the second largest natural gas marketer in Georgia with about a 30 percent market share.
Corporate and Other Non-Regulated
SCANAs corporate and other businesses, which include SCANA Communications, ServiceCare, SCANA Energy Marketing and the holding company, reported a GAAP loss of $2 million, or 2 cents per share in 2007, compared to a gain of $4 million, or 3 cents per share, in 2006. Excluding from reported earnings the impact of the propane litigation described below, these companies recorded a GAAP-adjusted net loss from operations of The decline in full year earnings is due to the reduction of synthetic fuel royalties related to the Companys former subsidiary, Primesouth.
$1 million, or 1 cent per share, in 2006.  For the fourth quarter of 2007, these businesses reported combined earnings of $1 million, or 1 cent per share,
unchanged compared to 2006.
 
 
EXPLANATION OF ITEMS INCLUDED IN REPORTED (GAAP) EARNINGS BUT EXCLUDED FROM GAAP-ADJUSTED NET EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS
In the first quarter of 2006, the Company recorded an after-tax gain of $6 million, or 5 cents per share, reflecting the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for equity-based compensation resulting from the Companys adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). In the second quarter of 2006, the Company reduced a prior loss accrual by $5 million, or 4 cents per share, upon the favorable settlement of litigation associated with the 1999 sale of the Companys propane assets.
2008 EARNINGS OUTLOOK
The Company affirms its previous guidance that 2008 earnings will be in the range of $2.90 to $3.05 per share. This estimate assumes normal weather in the Companys electric and natural gas service areas and excludes any potential impacts from changes in accounting principles and gains or losses from certain investing activities, litigation, and sales of assets. Other factors and risks that could impact future earnings are discussed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and below under the Safe Harbor Statement. The Company expects an average annual earnings growth rate of 4 to 6 percent over the next 3 to 5 years.
CONFERENCE CALL NOTICE
SCANA will host its quarterly conference call for security analysts at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time today. The call-in numbers for the conference call are 1-800-706-7748 (US/Canada) and 1-617-614-3473 (International). The event code is 93684963. Participants should call in 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available approximately 2 hours after conclusion of the call through February 29, 2008. To access the telephone replay, call 1-888-286-8010 (US/Canada) or 1-617-801-6888 (International) and enter the event code 36391992.
All interested persons, including investors, media and the general public, may listen to a live web cast of the conference call at the Companys web site at .  A copy of this press release and other presentation materials related to projected capital expenditures will be available on the website. Participants should go to the web site at least 5 to 10 minutes prior to the call start time and follow the instructions. A replay of the web cast and a transcript of the call will be available on the Companys web site approximately 2 hours after conclusion of the call through February 29, 2008.
www.scana.com
PROFILE
SCANA Corporation, a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Columbia, SC, is an energy-based holding company principally engaged, through subsidiaries, in electric and natural gas utility operations and other energy-related businesses. Information about SCANA and its businesses is available on the Companys web site at www.scana.com.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
Statements included in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, forward-looking statements for purposes of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning key earnings drivers, customer growth, environmental regulations and expenditures, leverage ratio, projections for pension fund contributions, financing activities, access to sources of capital, impacts of the adoption of new accounting rules, estimated construction and other expenditures and factors affecting the availability of synthetic fuel tax credits. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, could, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, projects, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and/or continuing review and adjustment; (2) regulatory actions, particularly changes in rate regulation and environmental regulations; (3) current and future litigation; (4) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by subsidiaries of SCANA Corporation (SCANA); (5) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, including competition from alternate fuels in industrial interruptible markets; (6) growth opportunities for SCANAs regulated and diversified subsidiaries; (7) the results of financing efforts; (8) changes in SCANAs or its subsidiaries accounting rules and accounting policies; (9)  the effects of weather, including drought, especially in areas where the Companys generation and transmission facilities are located and in areas served by SCANA's subsidiaries (10) payment by counterparties as and when due; (11) the results of efforts to license, site and construct facilities for baseload electric generation; (12) the availability of fuels such as coal, natural gas and enriched uranium used to produce electricity; the availability of purchased power and natural gas for distribution; the level and volatility of future market prices for such fuels and purchased power; and the ability to recover the costs for such fuels and purchased power; (13) performance of SCANAs pension plan assets; (14)  inflation; (15) compliance with regulations; and (16) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the periodic reports filed by SCANA or South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G) with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
Note (1): In January 2005, the Public Service Commission of South Carolina approved an accounting methodology which allows the Company to recover the cost of the Lake Murray back-up dam project through the application of net synthetic fuel tax credits generated from its synthetic fuel partnerships. Under this methodology, beginning January 1, 2005, the Company recognized its accumulated synthetic fuel tax credits to offset an equal amount of accelerated depreciation on the dam project, net of partnership losses and income tax benefits. While these entries result in a
reduction in operating income, there is no impact on net income. The Company is allowed to record non-cash carrying costs on the un-recovered investment. The impact of these entries in the Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet is shown in the tables below:
 
 
 
 
Note (2):  Prior periods reflect earnings for South Carolina Pipeline Corporation and SCG Pipeline, Inc., which
                  merged 
to form Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation effective November 1, 2006
Note (3):  Excludes impact of SFAS No. 123 (R) accounting change
Note (4):  Excludes impact of propane litigation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
SCANA Corporation
2008  2010 Projections for Capital Expenditures
Projected Capital Expenditures (CAPEX)
(millions of dollars)
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
This presentation includes projections that are considered "forward-looking statements" for purposes of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning key earnings drivers, customer growth, environmental regulations and expenditures, leverage ratio, projections for pension fund contributions, financing activities, access to sources of capital, impacts of the adoption of new accounting rules, estimated construction and other expenditures and factors affecting the availability of synthetic fuel tax credits. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, could, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, projects, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and/or continuing review and adjustment; (2) regulatory actions, particularly changes in rate regulation and environmental regulations; (3) current and future litigation; (4) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by subsidiaries of SCANA Corporation (SCANA); (5) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, including competition from alternate fuels in industrial interruptible markets; (6) growth opportunities for SCANAs regulated and diversified subsidiaries; (7) the results of financing efforts; (8) changes in SCANAs or its subsidiaries accounting rules and accounting policies; (9)  the effects of weather, including drought, especially in areas where the Companys generation and transmission facilities are located and in areas served by SCANA's subsidiaries (10) payment by counterparties as and when due; (11) the results of efforts to license, site and construct facilities for baseload electric generation; (12) the availability of fuels such as coal, natural gas and enriched uranium used to produce electricity; the availability of purchased power and natural gas for distribution; the level and volatility of future market prices for such fuels and purchased power; and the ability to recover the costs for such fuels and purchased power; (13) performance of SCANAs pension plan assets; (14)  inflation; (15) compliance with regulations; and (16) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the periodic reports filed by SCANA or South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G) with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 


