FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20090223172920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.03    AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS;
CHANGES IN FISCAL YEAR.
Effective February 19, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of SCANA Corporation (the Company) amended the second sentence of Article II, Section 2 of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company adopted December 13, 2000 (the "Bylaws") to change the minimum share ownership requirement for Company directors from the current requirement of at least 100 shares of the Company's common stock to a requirement that directors must own a number of shares of the Company's common stock equal to the number of shares granted in the five most recent annual retainers for directors.  This section of the Bylaws was further amended to provide that (a) persons serving as independent directors as of February 1, 2009 are required to meet the minimum share ownership requirement by the last day of February 2014, and persons who are subsequently elected as directors are required to meet such requirement within six years following the date of their election to the Board and (b) the Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors, or such other Board committee as the Board shall designate, has the discretion to grant a temporary waiver of such minimum share ownership requirements upon demonstration by a director that, due to a financial hardship or other good reason, he or she cannot meet the minimum share ownership requirements. 
Item 9.01     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.01
 
 
 
ARTICLE I.  SHAREHOLDERS
 
Section 1.  .   An annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held each fiscal year for the purpose of electing
Annual Meeting
 
Directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting.   The exact time and place of the
 
annual meeting shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
 
 Section 2.  .   Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Chief Executive Officer, or by the
   
Special Meetings
 
Chairman of the Board of Directors, or by a majority of the Board of Directors.  Business transacted at a special meeting shall be
 
confined to the specific purpose or purposes of the persons authorized to request such special meeting as set forth in this Section
 
and only such purpose or purposes shall be set forth in the notice of such meeting.
 
 Section 3.  .   The Board of Directors may designate any place, either within or without the State of South
   
Place of Meeting
 
Carolina, as the place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting.
 
 Section 4.  .  Meetings of shareholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board or, in the
   
Conduct of Meetings
 
absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, or in the absence of the Chairman of the
 
Executive Committee, a chairman designated by the Board of Directors or, in the absence of such designation, by a chairman
 
chosen at the meeting by the vote of a majority in interest of the shareholders present in person or represented by proxy and entitled
 
to vote thereat.  The Secretary or, in the Secretarys absence, an Assistant Secretary or, in the absence of the Secretary and all
 
Assistant Secretaries, a person whom the chairman of the meeting shall appoint shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep a
 
record of the proceedings thereof.
 
 
The Board of Directors shall be entitled to make such rules, regulations and procedures
 
 
 
for the conduct of meetings of shareholders as it shall deem necessary, appropriate or convenient.  Subject to such rules,
 
regulations and procedures of the Board of Directors, if any, the chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to
 
prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary,
 
appropriate or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, establishing (a) an agenda or order of
 
business for the meeting, (b) rules, regulations and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present,
 
(c) limitations on participation in such meeting to shareholders of record of the Corporation and their duly authorized and
 
constituted proxies and such other persons as the chairman shall permit, (d) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed
 
for the commencement thereof, (e) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants and (f) rules,
 
regulations and procedures governing the opening and closing of the polls for balloting and matters which are to be voted on by
 
ballot.  Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of shareholders shall
 
not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
 
 
 Section 5.  .  Nominations of persons for election
   
Nominations by Shareholders and Shareholder Proposals  Annual Meeting
 
to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of
 
shareholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any shareholder of the Corporation who was a
 
shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice by such shareholder provided for in this Section, who is entitled to vote at the
 
meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth below in this Section.
 
 
 For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a
   
 
 
 
 
shareholder pursuant to clause (b) of 
the foregoing paragraph of this Section 5, the shareholder
must have given timely notice
 
thereof in writing to the Secretary of the 
Corporation.  To be timely, a shareholders notice shall be delivered to and received by the
 
Secretary at the principal office of the
Corporation not less than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the proxy
 
statement sent to shareholders in
connection with the preceding years annual meeting; provided, however, that if the date of the
 
annual meeting is advanced by more
than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from the anniversary date of the preceding
 
 years annual meeting, notice by the
shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not later than the close of business on the later
 
of (i) the 120 day prior to such
th
annual meeting or (ii) the 10 day following the day on which public announcement of the date of
th
 
such meeting is first made.
 
 
 Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of the preceding paragraph to the contrary, if the number of directors to be
  
 
elected to the Board of Directors is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or
 
specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 120 days prior to the first anniversary of
 
the date of the proxy statement sent to shareholders in connection with the preceding years annual meeting, a shareholders notice
 
required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such
 
increase, if it shall be delivered to and received by the Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation not later than the close of
 
business on the 10 day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
th
 
 
 Such shareholders notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or
   
 
reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election
 
of directors, or is
 
 
 
 
 
otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the
 
Exchange Act) (including such persons written consent to being
named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to
 
serving as a director if elected) and a description of all arrangements and understandings between the nominating shareholder and
 
the nominee or any other person (naming such person) relating to the nomination; (b) as to any other business that the shareholder
 
proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for
 
conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if
 
any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (c) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose
 
behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Corporations
 
books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of
 
record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner.
 
 
 Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Bylaws shall be eligible to serve as
   
 
directors and only such business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the
 
meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section.  The chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to
 
determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the
 
procedures set forth in this Section and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section, to declare
 
that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
 
 
 For purposes of this Section, public announcement shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones
   
 
News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news
 
 
 
 
 
service, or in a document mailed to all shareholders of record.
 
 
 Section 6. .  Directors are to be elected at a special meeting of shareholders only (a) if the
   
Nominations at Special Meetings
 
Board of Directors so determines or (b) to fill a vacancy 
created by the removal of a director at such special meeting.  Nominations
 
of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be
 
elected (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any shareholder of the Corporation who was a shareholder of
 
record at the time of giving of notice by such shareholder provided for in this Section, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and
 
who complied with the notice procedures set forth below in this Section.
 
 
 Nominations by a shareholder of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such a special meeting of
   
 
shareholders at which directors are to be elected if the shareholders notice required by the fourth paragraph of Section 5 of Article
 
I of these Bylaws shall be delivered to and received by the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal office of the Corporation
 
not earlier than the 120 day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90 day prior
th
th
 
to such special meeting or the 10 day following the day on which public announcement (as defined in Section 5 of Article I of
th
 
these Bylaws) is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected
 
at such meeting.
 
 
 Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Bylaws shall be eligible to serve as
   
 
directors and only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the
 
meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2 of this Article I.  The chairman of the meeting shall have the power
 
and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be
 
 
 
 
 
brought before the special meeting was made in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section and, if any proposed
 
nomination or business is not in compliance with this
Section, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
 
ARTICLE II.  BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
 
 
 
 Section 1.  .   The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of its Board
   
General Powers
 
of Directors.
 
 
Section 2.  .   The number of Directors of the Corporation shall be not less than nine and
Number, Tenure and Qualifications
 
not more than twenty as determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.   Directors need not be residents of the State of
 
South Carolina.  Directors shall be required to own a number of shares of the Corporations common stock equal to the number of
 
shares granted in the five most recent annual retainers for Directors.  Persons serving as independent directors as of February 1,
 
2009 shall be required to meet the minimum share ownership requirement by the last day of February 2014.  Persons who are
 
subsequently elected as directors shall be required to meet such requirement within six years following the date of their election to
 
the Board of Directors.  The Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors, or such other committee of the Board of Directors
 
as the Board of Directors shall designate, shall have the discretion to grant a temporary waiver of these minimum share ownership
 
requirements upon demonstration by a director that, due to a financial hardship or other good reason, he or she cannot meet the
 
minimum share ownership requirements.
 
 
           Section 3.  .   The Board of Directors may provide, by resolution, the time and place, either within or with
Regular Meetings
 
out the State of South Carolina, for the holding of additional regular meetings.
 
 
Section 4.  .   Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at
Special Meetings
 
 
 
 
 
 any time and place upon the call of
the Chairman of the Board or of the Chief Executive Officer or by action of the Executive
 
Committee or Audit Committee.
 
 
Section 5.  .   A majority of the number of Directors fixed as provided in Section 2 
Quorum
of this Article II shall constitute a
 
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, but if less than a quorum is present at a meeting, a
 
majority of the Directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice.
 
 
Section 6.  .   The Board of Directors may create one or more committees of the Board of Directors including an
Committees
 
Audit Committee and an Executive Committee, and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on them.  To the extent
 
specified by the Board of Directors and subject to such limitations as may be specified by law, the Corporation's Articles of
 
Incorporation or these Bylaws, such committees may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors in the management of
 
the Corporation. 
 
 Meetings of a committee may be held at any time on call of the Chief Executive Officer or of any member of the
   
 
committee.   A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for all meetings. 
 
Section 7.  .  The Board of Directors may authorize payment to Directors of compensation for serving as
Compensation
 
Director, except that Directors who are also salaried officers of the Corporation or of any affiliated company shall not receive
 
additional compensation for service as Directors.  The Board of Directors may also authorize the payment of, or reimbursement for,
 
all expenses of each Director related to such Director's attendance at meetings.
 
 
ARTICLE III.  OFFICERS
 
 
Section 1.  .   The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief
Titles
 
Operating Officer, a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer, a General
 
 
 
 
Counsel, a Secretary, a Corporate Compliance Officer, an
Internal Auditor and such other officers and assistant officers as the
 
Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer shall deem 
necessary or desirable.   Any two or more offices may be held by the
 
same person, and an officer may act in more than one
capacity where action of two or more officers is required.
 
 
Section 2.  .   The Board of Directors shall appoint the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive
Appointment of Officers
 
Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, the General Counsel, the Secretary, the Corporate
 
Compliance Officer, the Internal Auditor and such other officers and assistant officers as the Board of Directors shall deem
 
necessary or desirable at such time or times as the Board of Directors shall determine.  In the absence of any action by the Board of
 
Directors, the Chief Executive Officer may appoint all other officers.
 
 
Section 3.  .   Any officer appointed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may be removed by
Removal
 
the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, but no other committee, with or without cause.  The Chief Executive Officer
 
may remove any officer other than the Corporate Compliance Officer and the Internal Auditor.
 
Section 4.  .   The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen by and from among the Directors, shall
Chairman of the Board
 
preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors if present, and shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of Chairman
 
of the Board and such other duties as, from time to time, may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. 
 
Section 5.  .   The Chief Executive Officer, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, shall in
Chief Executive Officer
 
general supervise and control all of the business and affairs of the Corporation.   He shall, in the absence of the Chairman of the
 
Board and the Chairman of the Executive Committee, preside at meetings of the Board of Directors.   He may vote on behalf of the
 
Corporation the stock of any other corporation owned by the Corporation and sign, with the
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secretary or any other proper officer 
of the Corporation thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors, certificates for shares of
 
the Corporation and any deeds,
mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments which the Board of Directors has authorized to
 
be executed, except in cases
where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors or by
 
these Bylaws to some other
officer or agent of the Corporation, or shall be required by law to be
otherwise signed or executed; and
 
in general shall perform all
duties incident to the office of Chief Executive Officer and such other duties as may be prescribed by the
 
Board of Directors from
time to time.   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate his authority to vote stock on behalf of the
 
Corporation and such
delegation of authority may be either general or specific.
 
Section 6.  .  The Chief Operating Officer shall in general perform all of the duties incident to the
Chief Operating Officer
 
office of Chief Operating Officer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer,
 
the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors.
 
Section 7. .  The Chief Financial Officer shall in general perform all of the duties incident to the office
Chief Financial Officer
 
of Chief Financial Officer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer, the
 
Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors.
 
Section 8.  .   The Treasurer shall in general perform all of the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such
Treasurer
 
other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board or the Board of
 
Directors.
 
Section 9.  .   The General Counsel shall in general perform all of the duties incident to the office of the
General Counsel
 
General Counsel and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of
 
the Board or the Board of
 
 
 
 
 
Directors.
 
Section 10.  .   The Secretary shall:  (a) keep the minutes of the meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of
Secretary
 
Directors in one or more books provided for that purpose; (b) authenticate records of the Corporation when such authentication is
 
required; and (c) in general perform all duties incident to the office of the Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may
 
be assigned to him by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board or the Board of
 
Directors.
 
Section 11.  .  The Corporate Compliance Officer shall report to the Chairman of the Audit
Corporate Compliance Officer
 
Committee and shall in general perform all of the duties incident to the office of Corporate Compliance Officer and such other
 
duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or the Audit Committee, but no other committee.
 
Section 12.  .  The Internal Auditor shall report to the Chairman of the Audit Committee  and shall in general
Internal Auditor
 
perform all of the duties incident to the office of Internal Auditor and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him
 
by the Board of Directors or the Audit Committee, but no other committee.
 
 
 Section 13. .   The compensation of the officers appointed by the Board of Directors shall be fixed from time
   
Compensation
 
to time by the Board of Directors and the compensation of those appointed by the Chief Executive Officer shall, in the absence of
 
any action by the Board of Directors, be set by the Chief Executive Officer.  No officer shall be prevented from receiving
 
compensation by reason of the fact that he is also a Director of the Corporation.
 
 
ARTICLE IV.  AMENDMENTS
 
 
Except as otherwise provided by law, these Bylaws may be amended or repealed and new Bylaws may be adopted by the
 
Board of Directors or the shareholders.
 
 
 


