FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20100506083744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
This combined Form 8-K is separately furnished by SCANA Corporation and South Carolina Electric & Gas Company.  Information contained herein relating to any individual company is furnished by such company on its own behalf.  Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other company.
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
              
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On May 6, 2010, SCANA Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company") issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and will be posting information titled "Slide Presentation" to its website at www.scana.com prior to the start of, and in connection with, the Company's quarterly conference call for security analysts referenced in the press release.  The Slide Presentation information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01
              
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)
          
Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1
           
Press release dated May 6, 2010.
 
Exhibit 99.2
           
Slide Presentation
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  The signature of each registrant shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such registrant and any subsidiaries thereof.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For
Immediate Release
 
 
Cayce, SC, May 6, 2010...
SCANA Corporation (NYSE: SCG) today reported consolidated earnings for the first quarter of 2010 of $127 million, or $1.02 per share, compared to $114 million, or $.94 per share, for the first quarter of 2009.
 
"In the first quarter of 2010 our service territory experienced one of the coldest winters in decades and as a result, we saw significantly higher customer usage compared to last year," said Jimmy Addison, senior vice president and chief financial officer. "However, we have proposed a weather normalization mechanism as part of a stipulation recently filed in SCE&G's pending 2010 electric base rate case. Accordingly, we have deferred $25 million of estimated weather related revenues from the first quarter of 2010 for refund to customers and have reduced SCANA's reported earnings by $.13 per share."
 
Addison continued, "In our regulated gas operations at SCE&G and PSNC Energy, where we have had weather normalization mechanisms for an extended period, the effects of weather on earnings and customer's bills were substantially tempered. However, we saw very favorable weather related earnings at SCANA Energy Georgia. Additionally, we reported continued customer growth and higher non-weather related consumption across our system, indicating signs of an economic recovery consistent with other reports."
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS BY MAJOR LINES OF BUSINESS
 
South Carolina Electric & Gas Company
 
South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G), SCANA's principal subsidiary, reported earnings in the first quarter of 2010 of $64 million, or $.51 per share, compared to $62 million, or $.51 per share, in the same quarter last year. These earnings reflect a revenue reduction of $25 million associated with a weather normalization mechanism included as part of a stipulation filed in SCE&G's 2010 electric base rate case. Net of the effect of this adjustment, quarterly results are due primarily to increases in electric rates under the Base Load Review Act (BLRA), an increase in natural gas base rates under the Natural Gas Rate Stabilization Act (RSA), higher weather normalized consumption and customer growth resulting in improved electric and natural gas margins.  These increases were offset by higher operating and maintenance and interest expenses, property taxes and dilution. At March 31, 2010, SCE&G was serving approximately 659,000 electric customers and approximately 313,000 natural gas customers, up 1.1 percent and 1.2 percent, respectively, from the same time last year.
 
 
PSNC Energy
 
PSNC Energy, SCANA's retail natural gas subsidiary headquartered in Gastonia, North Carolina, reported earnings of $31 million, or $.25 per share, in the first quarter of 2010, compared to $30 million, or $.25 per share, in the first quarter of 2009. These results are due primarily to improved margins offset by slightly higher operating expenses and depreciation. At March 31, 2010, PSNC Energy was serving approximately 475,000 natural gas customers, an increase of 1.3 percent over the last twelve months.
 
SCANA Energy
 
SCANA Energy, the Company's retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia, reported earnings of $30 million, or $.24 per share, in the first quarter of 2010, compared to $22 million, or $.18 per share, in the first quarter of 2009. This increase in earnings per share is due to higher volumes driven by extremely cold weather.  At March 31, 2010, SCANA Energy was serving approximately 465,000 customers in Georgia, maintaining its position as the second largest natural gas marketer in the state.
 
Corporate and Other, Net
 
SCANA's corporate and other businesses, which include Carolina Gas Transmission, SCANA Communications, ServiceCare, SCANA Energy Marketing and the holding company, reported earnings of $2 million, or $.02 per share, compared to breakeven results in the first quarter of 2009. This improvement is due primarily to a lower effective tax rate.
 
2010 EARNINGS OUTLOOK
 
The Company affirms its previous guidance that 2010 earnings will be in the range of $2.85 to $3.05 per share. This estimate assumes normal weather for the remainder of the year in the Company's electric and natural gas service areas and excludes any potential impacts from changes in accounting principles and certain gains or losses from investing activities, litigation, and sales of assets. Other factors and risks that could impact future earnings are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and below under the Safe Harbor Statement. The Company expects an average annual earnings growth rate of 4 to 6 percent over the next 3 to 5 years.
 
CONFERENCE CALL NOTICE
 
SCANA will host its quarterly conference call for security analysts at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on Thursday, May 6, 2010. The call-in numbers for the conference call are 1-800-295-3991 (US/Canada) and 1-617-614-3924 (International). The passcode is 61517374. Participants should call in 5 to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available approximately 2 hours after conclusion of the call through May 20, 2010. The telephone replay numbers are 1-888-286-8010 (US/Canada) and 1-617-801-6888 (International). The passcode for the telephone replay is 87029971.
 
All interested persons, including investors, media and the general public, may listen to a live web cast of the conference call at the Company's web site at www.scana.com.  Participants should go to the web site at least 5 to 10 minutes prior to the call start time and follow the instructions. A replay of the conference call and a transcript will also be available on the Company's web site approximately 2 hours after conclusion of the call through May 20, 2010.
 
PROFILE
 
SCANA Corporation, a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Cayce, SC, is an energy-based holding company principally engaged, through subsidiaries, in electric and natural gas utility operations and other energy-related businesses. The Company serves approximately 659,000 electric customers in South Carolina and more than 1.2 million natural gas customers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. Information about SCANA and its businesses is available on the Company's web site at www.scana.com.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
 
Statements included in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward-looking statements" for purposes of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning key earnings drivers, customer growth, environmental regulations and expenditures, leverage ratio, projections for pension fund contributions, financing activities, access to sources of capital, impacts of the adoption of new accounting rules, estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "projects," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and/or continuing review and adjustment; (2)  regulatory actions, particularly changes in rate regulation, regulations governing electric grid reliability and environmental regulations; (3) current and future litigation; (4) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by subsidiaries of SCANA Corporation (SCANA); (5) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, including competition from alternate fuels in industrial interruptible markets; (6) growth opportunities for SCANA's regulated and diversified subsidiaries; (7) the results of short- and long-term financing efforts, including future prospects for obtaining access to capital markets and other sources of liquidity; (8) changes in SCANA's or its subsidiaries' accounting rules and accounting policies; (9) the effects of weather, including drought, especially in areas where the Company's generation and transmission facilities are located and in areas served by SCANA's subsidiaries; (10) payment by counterparties as and when due; (11)
the results of efforts to license, site, construct and finance facilities for baseload electric generation;
(12) the availability of fuels such as coal, natural gas and enriched uranium used to produce electricity; the availability of purchased power and natural gas for distribution; the level and volatility of future market prices for such fuels and purchased power; and the ability to recover the costs for such fuels and purchased power; (13) the availability of skilled and experienced human resources to properly manage, operate, and grow the Company's businesses; (14) labor disputes; (15) performance of SCANA's pension plan assets; (16) higher taxes; (17) inflation; (18) compliance with regulations; and (19) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the periodic reports filed by SCANA or South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G) with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INFORMATION
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(Millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited)
 
 
Note (1): In the first quarter of 2010, pursuant to authorization by the Public Service Commission of South Carolina in connection with its annual review of fuel cost and rates, the Company accelerated the recognition of previously deferred state income tax credits in the amount of $17 million (thereby lowering income tax expense), and recorded an offsetting reduction of 2010's recovery of fuel costs (electric revenue).  These offsetting decreases had no effect on income available to common shareholders.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
Variances in Earnings per Share:
(Unaudited)
 
 
Note (2): This variance analysis reflects earnings per share (EPS) components on an after-tax basis, excluding the effects of the adjustment described in Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
Earnings per Share by Company:
(Unaudited)
 
 
Consolidated Operating Statistics:
 
Security Credit Ratings (as of 05/06/10):
 

Exhibit 99.2
 


