FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20100810153302.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 7.01  REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
SCANA Corporation will be meeting with securities analysts and hosting one-on-one investor meetings at the East Coast Utility Seminar to be held in Boston, Massachusetts on Wednesday, August 11, 2010.  At those meetings, SCANA Chairman and CEO William B. Timmerman and other senior officers will discuss the Company's business strategy and financial performance.  The materials which will be made available at the meetings are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.  These materials will be available at SCANA's website at http://www.scana.com through August 25, 2010.
 
On August 9, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing a South Carolina Supreme Court decision related to the Base Load Review Act.  The press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Also, on August 10, 2010, SCE&G (for itself and as agent for Santee Cooper), Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone &Webster, Inc. agreed to shift significant additional portions of the Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contract components from the "target" category to the "fixed cost" and "fixed cost with escalation" categories.  As a result of this agreement, approximately two-thirds of the total EPC contract costs are now in the fixed cost and fixed cost with escalation categories.
 
Item 9.01
                                            
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1
                                   
Investor Presentation  August 2010
 
Exhibit 99.2
                                   
Press Release  August 9, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
For
Immediate Release
 
 
Cayce, SC, August  9, 2010...
SCANA subsidiary (NYSE:SCG) South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G)  received an opinion from the South Carolina Supreme Court reversing the decision of Public Service Commission of South Carolina to include cost contingencies and associated inflation as part of its anticipated components of capital costs under SCE&G's Base Load Review Order for its new nuclear construction project.
 
"Contingencies are a normal part of major construction projects," said SCE&G President Kevin Marsh. "Rather than having a pre-approved project contingency fund, this will simply require the company to go before the Commission for cost updates as previously designated contingency funds are to be used. This ruling may change the steps in the regulatory process but it should not change the outcome as long as the costs incurred are deemed prudent."
 
The projected contingency fund was less than 10 percent of the total project budget.  Of the pending revised rate request before the PSC, 99.5 percent is unaffected, as only about $270,000 out of $47.6 million revenue requirement is related to previously designated contingency dollars. All other portions of the Base Load Review Order remain intact and construction of the new units is continuing as planned.
 
Marsh added, "It is important to understand that the Court's decision does not delay the actual construction of the new units.  The Supreme Court's decision does not change the Commission's issuance of a Certificate of Environmental and Compatibility and Convenience, which is required to construct the new units."
 
PROFILE
 
SCANA Corporation, a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Cayce, SC, is an energy-based holding company principally engaged, through subsidiaries, in electric and natural gas utility operations and other energy-related businesses. The Company serves approximately 660,000 electric customers in South Carolina and more than 1.2 million natural gas customers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. Information about SCANA and its businesses is available on the Company's web site at www.scana.com.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
 
Statements included in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, "forward-looking statements" for purposes of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning key earnings drivers, customer growth, environmental regulations and expenditures, leverage ratio, projections for pension fund contributions, financing activities, access to sources of capital, impacts of the adoption of new accounting rules and estimated construction and other expenditures. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expects," "forecasts," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "projects," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other similar terminology. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further and/or continuing review and adjustment; (2)  regulatory actions, particularly changes in rate regulation, regulations governing electric grid reliability and environmental regulations; (3) current and future litigation; (4) changes in the economy, especially in areas served by subsidiaries of SCANA Corporation (SCANA); (5) the impact of competition from other energy suppliers, including competition from alternate fuels in industrial interruptible markets; (6) growth opportunities for SCANA's regulated and diversified subsidiaries; (7) the results of short- and  long-term financing efforts, including future prospects for obtaining access to capital markets and other sources of liquidity; (8) changes in SCANA's or its subsidiaries' accounting rules and accounting policies; (9) the effects of weather, including drought, especially in areas where the Company's generation and transmission facilities are located and in areas served by SCANA's subsidiaries; (10) payment by counterparties as and when due; (11) the results of efforts to license, site, construct and finance facilities for baseload electric generation; (12) the availability of fuels such as coal, natural gas and enriched uranium used to produce electricity; the availability of purchased power and natural gas for distribution; the level and volatility of future market prices for such fuels and purchased power; and the ability to recover the costs for such fuels and purchased power; (13) the availability of skilled and experienced human resources to properly manage, operate, and grow the Company's businesses; (14) labor disputes; (15) performance of SCANA's pension plan assets; (16) higher taxes; (17) inflation; (18) compliance with regulations; and (19) the other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the periodic reports filed by SCANA or South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G) with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 


