FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20100210152806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
  December 31, 2009
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
SCANA Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
             
                                                                                 
South Carolina
1-8809
57-0784499
State or other jurisdiction                           (Commission                                (IRS Employer
of incorporation)                                        File Number)                                 Identification No.)
 
 
 
                                                                                           
100 SCANA Parkway, Cayce, South Carolina
29033
(Address of principal executive offices)                                                                                                 (Zip Code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
          [  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
          [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events.
 
Effective December 31, 2009, SCANA Corporation adopted certain nonmaterial amendments to the SCANA Corporation Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan (the Plan).  To the extent that any of the amendments would adversely affect any award granted before December 31, 2009 to a participant pursuant to the Plan, that amendment would not be effective with respect to that award without the consent of the participant, and the award would continue to be governed by the provision of the Plan in effect before that amendment.
 
The purpose of this Form 8-K is to file the Plan, as amended and restated as of December 31, 2009, for incorporation into the registrants Registration Statement No. 333-37398 on Form S-8.  The Plan as in effect before December 31, 2009, which continues to govern certain awards as described in the preceding paragraph, was filed on February 17, 2009 as Exhibit 4.04 to Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 333-37398 on Form S-8.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           .
Exhibits
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
     
SCANA Corporation
                                                            (Registrant)
 
 
 
 
 
Date:
               
February 10, 2010
                                                                
                                                   /s/ James E. Swan, IV
                                                   James E. Swan, IV
                                                   Controller
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
      
Exhibit Number
Description
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 1. Establishment, Objectives and Duration
1.1
 
. SCANA Corporation, a South Carolina corporation (hereinafter referred to as SCANA), hereby establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as the SCANA Corporation Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan (hereinafter referred to as the Plan), as set forth in this document. The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares and Performance Units.
Establishment of the Plan
The Plan originally became effective January 1, 2000 and was subsequently amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005 (the Effective Date).  As of January 1, 2009, the Plan was amended and restated to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  On December 31, 2009, the Plan was further amended to clarify the Change in Control provisions and to make certain additional administrative changes and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.
1.2
 
The objectives of the Plan are to optimize the profitability and growth of the Company through long-term incentives which are consistent with the Companys goals and which link the personal interests of Participants to those of SCANAs shareholders; to provide Participants with an incentive for excellence in individual performance; and to promote teamwork among Participants.
Objectives of the Plan.
The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Participants who make significant contributions to the Companys success and to allow Participants to share in the success of the Company.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Plan, each provision of the Plan that otherwise relates to nonqualified deferred compensation benefits shall be interpreted to permit the deferral of compensation and the payment of deferred amounts in accordance with Code Section 409A, to the extent applicable, and any provision that would conflict with such requirements shall not be valid or enforceable.
1.3
 
The Plan shall commence on the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1 hereof, and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Committee to amend or terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article 14 hereof, until the earlier of January 1, 2015 or until all Shares subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the Plans provisions. However, in no event may an Award be granted under the Plan more than ten (10) years after the Effective Date of the Plan.
Duration of the Plan.
 
 
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized:
2.1
 
means, individually or collectively, a grant under this Plan of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Units.
Award
2.2
 
means an agreement entered into by SCANA and each Participant setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted under this Plan.
Award Agreement
2.3
 
or shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.
Beneficial Owner
Beneficial Ownership
2.5
 
means a change in control of SCANA of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not SCANA is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided that, without limitation, such a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Change in Control
 
(a)
Any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock of SCANA;
(b)
During any period of two (2) consecutive years (not including any period prior to December 18, 1996) there shall cease to be a majority of the Board comprised as follows: individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board and any new director(s) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by SCANAs shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved;
(c)
The consummation of a merger or consolidation of SCANA with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting shares of capital stock of SCANA outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting shares of capital stock of the surviving entity) at least eighty percent (80%) of the combined voting power of the voting shares of capital stock of SCANA or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or the shareholders of SCANA approve a plan of complete liquidation of SCANA or an agreement for the sale or disposition by SCANA of all or substantially all of SCANAs assets; or
-2- 
 
 
(d)
The consummation of the sale of the stock of any subsidiary of SCANA designated by the Board as a Material Subsidiary; or the shareholders of SCANA approve a plan of complete liquidation of a Material Subsidiary or an agreement for the sale or disposition by SCANA of all or substantially all of the assets of a Material Subsidiary; provided that any event described in this subsection shall represent a Change in Control only with respect to a Participant who has been exclusively assigned to the affected Material Subsidiary.
 
-3- 
 
 
 
 
Article 3. Administration
3.1
 
. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the discretion of, the Board of Directors. The Committee shall have the authority to delegate administrative duties to officers of the Company.
General
3.2
 
. Except as limited by law or by the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of SCANA, and subject to the provisions herein, the Committee shall have full power to select Eligible Employees who shall participate in the Plan; determine the sizes and types of Awards; determine the terms and conditions of Awards in a manner consistent with the Plan; construe and interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plans administration; and (subject to the provisions of Article 14 herein) amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award as provided in the Plan. Further, the Committee shall make all other determinations which may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
Authority of the Committee
3.3
 
. All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders and resolutions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including SCANA, its shareholders, Directors, Eligible Employees, Participants and their estates and beneficiaries.
Decisions Binding
-5- 
 
 
Article 4. Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards
4.1
 
. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for issuance to Participants under the Plan shall be five million (5,000,000), no more than one million (1,000,000) of which may be granted in the form of Restricted Stock.  The following rules shall apply to grants of Awards under the Plan:
Number of Shares Available for Grants
4.2
 
. Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, the following Awards and Payouts shall reduce, on a one-for-one basis, the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan:
Adjustments for Awards and Payouts
(a)
 
An Award of an Option;
(b)
 
An Award of an SAR (except a Tandem SAR);
-6- 
 
 
(c)
 
An Award of Restricted Stock;
(d)
 
A payout of a Performance Share Award in Shares; and
(e)
 
A payout of a Performance Unit Award in Shares.
Unless determined otherwise by the Committee, unless a Participant has received a benefit of ownership such as dividend or voting rights with respect to the Award, the following transactions shall restore, on a one-for-one basis, the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan:
4.3
 
. In the event of any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, or a corporate transaction, such as any merger, consolidation, separation, including a spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of SCANA, any reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Code Section 368) or any partial or complete liquidation of SCANA, such adjustment shall be made in the number and class of Shares which may be delivered under Section 4.1, in the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan, and in the Award limits set forth in Section 4.1, as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number.
Adjustments in Authorized Shares
Article 5. Eligibility and Participation
5.1
 
. Persons eligible to participate in this Plan are those Employees who are designated Eligible Employees by the Committee. In no event, however, shall any ISOs be granted to any person who owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of SCANA.
Eligibility
5.2
 
. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select in its sole and broad discretion, upon or without the recommendation of officers of the Company, from all Eligible Employees, those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and amount of each Award.
Actual Participation
Article 6. Stock Options
6.1
 
Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee.
Grant of Options.
-7- 
 
 
6.2
 
. Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO within the meaning of Code Section 422, or an NQSO whose grant is intended not to fall under the provisions of Code Section 422.
Award Agreement
6.3
 
. The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Option is granted.
Option Price
6.4
 
. Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, that no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date of its grant.
Duration of Options
6.5
 
. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.
Exercise of Options
6.6
 
. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise to SCANA, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares.
Payment
The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to SCANA in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent, or (b) if permitted by the Award Agreement, by tendering previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price (provided that the Shares which are tendered must have been held by the Participant for at least six (6) months prior to their tender to satisfy the Option Price), or (c) if permitted by the Award Agreement, by a combination of (a) and (b).
The Committee also may allow cashless exercise as permitted under the Federal Reserve Boards Regulation T, subject to applicable securities law restrictions, or by any other means which the Committee determines to be consistent with the Plans purpose and applicable law.
Subject to any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of a written notification of exercise and full payment, SCANA shall deliver to the Participant, in the Participants name, certificates evidencing the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).
6.7
 
. The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
Restrictions on Share Transferability
6.8
 
. Each Participants Option Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participants employment with the Company with the exception of a termination of employment
Termination of Employment
 
-8- 
 
 
 
that occurs after a Change in Control, which is controlled by Section 13.1.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
6.9
 
.
Nontransferability of Options
   (a) 
No ISO granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, all ISOs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.
Incentive Stock Options.
(b). No NQSO granted under this Article 6 may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further all NQSOs granted to a Participant under this Article 6 shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.
  Nonqualified Stock Options
Article 7. Stock Appreciation Rights
7.1
 
. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs or any combination of these forms of SAR.
Grant of SARs
The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.
The grant price of a Freestanding SAR shall equal the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of the SAR. The grant price of Tandem SARs shall equal the Option Price of the related Option.
7.2
 
. Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then exercisable.
Exercise of Tandem SARs
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO: (i) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (ii) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (iii) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO.
7.3
 
. Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes upon them.
Exercise of Freestanding SARs
-9- 
 
 
7.4
 
. Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the grant price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
SAR Agreement
7.5
 
. The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion; provided, however, that such term shall not exceed ten (10) years.
Term of SARs
7.6
 
. Upon exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
Payment of SAR Amount
At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in Shares of equivalent value, or in some combination thereof. The Committees determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.
7.7
 
. Each SAR Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participants employment with the Company with the exception of a termination of employment that occurs after a Change in Control, which is controlled by Section 13.1.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Termination of Employment
7.8
 
. No SAR granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.
Nontransferability of SARs
 
Article 8. Restricted Stock
8.1
 
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Participants in such amounts as the Committee shall determine.
Grant of Restricted Stock
8.2
 
. Each Restricted Stock grant shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
Restricted Stock Agreement
8.3
 
. Except as provided in this Article 8, the Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement, or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified
Nontransferability
-10- 
 
 
 
by the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement. All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant for the Period of Restriction.
8.4
 
. Subject to Article 10 herein, the Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals (Company-wide, divisional, and/or individual), time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals, and/or restrictions under applicable federal or state securities laws.
Other Restrictions
The Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Companys possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied.
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall become freely transferable by the Participant after the last day of the applicable Period of Restriction.
8.5
 
. Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be granted the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction.
Voting Rights
8.6
 
. During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be credited with regular cash dividends with respect to such Shares or the Committee may apply any restrictions to the crediting of dividends that the Committee deems appropriate. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, if the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock granted to a Covered Employee is designed to comply with the requirements of the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may apply any restrictions it deems appropriate to the crediting of dividends declared with respect to such Restricted Stock, such that the dividends and/or the Restricted Stock maintain eligibility for the Performance-Based Exception.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, dividends accrued on Restricted Stock will only be paid if the Restricted Stock vests.
Dividends and Other Distributions
8.7
 
. Each Restricted Stock Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive nonvested Restricted Stock following termination of the Participants employment with the Company with the exception of a termination of employment that occurs after a Change in Control, which is controlled by Section 13.1. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination; provided, however that, except in the cases of terminations connected with a Change in Control and terminations by reason of death or Disability, the vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock which qualify for the Performance-based Exception and which are held by Covered Employees shall occur at the time they otherwise would have, but for the termination.
Termination of Employment
-11- 
 
 
 
Article 8A. Restricted Stock Units
8A.1
 
. Subject to the terms of the Plan, RSUs may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
Grant of Restricted Stock Units
8A.2
 
. Each RSU grant shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of RSUs granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
8A.3
 
. Each RSU shall have a value that is equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant.
Value of Restricted Stock Unit
8A.4
 
Subject to Section 13.1, unless the Award Agreement provides otherwise, RSUs shall vest 100% upon the third anniversary of the grant date.  Except as otherwise provided in Article 8A.7 below, if the RSUs have not fully vested as of the date the employment of a Participant has been terminated, the RSUs shall be forfeited.
Vesting of Restricted Stock Units.  
8A.5
 
  Payment of RSUs shall be made in a single lump sum cash payment as soon as administratively practicable after the vesting date under Article 8A.4 or as otherwise determined under Section 8A.7 below.  The amount of such payment shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the RSUs on the vesting date.
Form and Timing of Payment of Restricted Stock Units.
8A.6
 
  Each RSU shall be credited with an amount equal to the dividends paid on a Share between the date of grant and the date such RSU is paid to the Participant (if at all).  Dividend equivalents shall vest, if at all, upon the same terms and conditions governing the vesting of RSUs under the Plan.  Payment of the dividend equivalent shall  be made at the same time as payment of the RSU and shall be made without interest or other adjustment.  If the RSU is forfeited, the Participant shall have no right to dividend equivalents.
Dividend Equivalents.
8A.7
 
In the event the employment of a Participant is terminated by reason of the Participants Separation from Service on account of death, Disability, or Retirement, prior to the date on which the RSUs would otherwise have vested under Article 8A.4, the RSUs shall immediately vest and payment of such RSUs (together with any dividend equivalents under Article 8A.6) shall be made in a single lump sum cash payment as soon as practicable thereafter; provided that, if the Participant is a Specified Employee, any such payment shall be deferred until the earlier of (i) the first day of the seventh month following the Participants Separation from Service (without regard to whether the Participant is reemployed on that date) or (ii) the date of the Participants death.
Separation from Service Due to Death, Disability, or Retirement.
8A.8
 
. RSUs may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
-12- 
 
 
Article 9. Performance Units and Performance Shares
9.1
 
. Subject to the terms of the Plan, Performance Units, and/or Performance Shares may be granted to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.
Grant of Performance Units/Shares
9.2
 
. Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number and/or value of Performance Units/Shares that will be paid out to the Participant. For purposes of this Article 9, the time period during which the performance goals must be met shall be called a Performance Period.
Value of Performance Units/Shares
9.3
 
. Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units/Shares shall be entitled to receive payout on the number and value of Performance Units/Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved.
Earning of Performance Units/Shares
9.4
 
Payment of earned Performance Units/Shares shall be made in a single lump sum following the close of the applicable Performance Period. Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Shares in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) which have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Shares at the close of the applicable Performance Period. Such Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Shares.
At the discretion of the Committee, Participants may be entitled to receive any dividends declared with respect to Shares which have been earned in connection with grants of Performance Shares which have been earned, but not yet distributed to Participants.
9.5
 
.  In the event a Participant incurs a Separation from Service  on account of death, Disability, or Retirement during a Performance Period, the Participant shall receive a payout of the Performance Units/Shares as specified in the Participants Award Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Covered Employees who incur a Separation from Service on account of Retirement during a Performance Period, payments shall be made at the same time as payments are made to Participants who did not terminate employment during the applicable Performance Period.
Separation from Service Due to Death, Disability or Retirement
9.6
 
. Subject to Section 13.1, in the event that a Participants employment terminates for any reason other than those reasons set forth in Section 9.5 herein, all Performance Units/Shares shall be forfeited by the Participant to the Company unless determined otherwise by the Committee and set forth in the Participants Award Agreement.
Termination of Employment for Other Reasons
-13- 
 
 
9.7
 
. Performance Units/Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participants Award Agreement, a Participants rights under the Plan with respect to Performance Units/Shares shall be exercisable during the Participants lifetime only by the Participant or the Participants legal representative.
Nontransferability
Article 10. Performance Measures
Unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder vote and shareholders approve a change in the general performance measures set forth in this Article 10, the attainment of which may determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to Awards to Covered Employees which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the performance measure(s) to be used for purposes of such grants may be measured at the SCANA level, at a subsidiary level, or at an operating unit level and shall be chosen from among:
The Committee shall have the discretion to adjust the determinations of the degree of attainment of the preestablished performance goals; provided, however, that Awards which are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, and which are held by a Covered Employee, may not be adjusted upward (the Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward).
In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit the Committee discretion to alter the governing performance measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards which shall not qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m).
In the case of any Award which is granted subject to the condition that a specified performance measure be achieved, no payment under such Award shall be made prior to the time that the Committee certifies in writing that the performance measure has been satisfied.  For this purpose, approved minutes of the Committee meeting at which the certification is made will be treated as a written certification.  No such certification is required, however, in the case of an Award that is based solely on an increase in the value of a Share from the date such Award was made.
-14- 
 
 
Article 11. Beneficiary Designation
Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participants lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participants death shall be paid to the Participants estate.
Article 12. Rights of Employees
12.1
 
. Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate any Participants employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company.
Employment
12.2
 
. No Eligible Employee shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
Participation
Article 13. Change in Control
13.1
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the treatment of any Awards shall be addressed in the Participants Award Agreement.
Outstanding Awards.  
13.2
 
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan (but subject to the limitations of Section 14.3 hereof), the provisions of this Article 13 and the change in control provisions of any Award Agreement may not be terminated, amended, or modified on or after the date of a Change in Control to affect adversely any Award theretofore granted under the Plan without the prior written consent of the Participant with respect to said Participants outstanding Awards; provided, however, the Committee may terminate, amend, or modify this Article 13 at any time and from time to time prior to the date of a Change in Control.
Termination, Amendment, and Modifications of Change-in-Control Provisions
Article 14. Amendment, Modification and Termination
14.1
 
. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee may at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part for any purpose which the Committee deems appropriate and that is otherwise consistent with Section 409A of the Code; provided, however, no amendment shall without shareholder approval (i) increase the total number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan or the maximum awards thereunder as set forth in Section 4.1; (ii) modify the requirements as to eligibility for benefits under the Plan; or (iii) reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or SARs or cancel outstanding Options or SARs in exchange for cash, other awards or Options or SARs with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original options or SARs.
Amendment, Modification and Termination
-15- 
 
 
14.2
 
. The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 4.3 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan; provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise at the time such adjustment is considered, no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the Plans meeting the requirements of Sections 162(m) and 409A of the Code, as from time to time amended.
Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
14.3
 
. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary (but subject to Section 14.2 hereof), no termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award.
Awards Previously Granted
14.4
 
. At all times when Code Section 162(m) is applicable, all Awards granted under this Plan to Covered Employees shall comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m); provided, however, that in the event the Committee determines that such compliance is not desired with respect to any Award or Awards available for grant under the Plan, then compliance with Code Section 162(m) will not be required. In addition, in the event that changes are made to Code Section 162(m) to permit greater flexibility with respect to any Award or Awards available under the Plan, the Committee may, subject to this Article 14 make any adjustments it deems appropriate.
Compliance with Code Section 162(m)
Article 15. Withholding
15.1
 
. The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan.
Tax Withholding
15.2
 
. With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock, or upon any other taxable event arising as a result of Awards granted hereunder, Participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having SCANA withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax which could be imposed on the transaction. All such elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing, and signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
Share Withholding
Article 16. Indemnification
Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by SCANA against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any
 
-16- 
 
 
claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with SCANAs approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give SCANA an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under SCANAs Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that SCANA may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Article 17. Successors
 
All obligations of SCANA under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to SCANA.
Article 18. Legal Construction
18.1
 
. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
18.2
 
. In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
18.3
 
. The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
Requirements of Law
18.4
 
. With respect to officers and directors of the Company subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, transactions under this Plan are intended to comply with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the Exchange Act. To the extent any provision of the Plan or action by the Committee fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Committee.
Securities Law Compliance
18.5
 
. To the extent not preempted by federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of South Carolina.
Governing Law
-17- 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this SCANA Long-Term Equity
Compensation Plan to be executed by its duly authorized officer this 31 day of December,
st
2009 to be effective as of the dates specified herein.
SCANA CORPORATION
By:  
/s/J. P. Hudson
   
   
 
 
Title:  
VP  HR
     
   
  
   
ATTEST:
                                    
/s/Gina Champion
   
   
Secretary
-18- 
 
 


