FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20120330135812.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
This combined Form 8-K is separately furnished by SCANA Corporation and South Carolina Electric & Gas Company.  Information contained herein relating to any individual company is furnished by such company on its own behalf.  Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other company.
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01
                                            
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On March 30, 2012, SCANA Corporation announced that its subsidiary South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and the South Carolina Public Service Authority have received approval for combined construction and operating licenses from the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the two additional nuclear units proposed for the V.C. Summer Nuclear Station. A press release providing additional details of this announcement is included herein as Exhibit 99.01.
 
Item 9.01
                                            
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  The signature of each registrant shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such registrant and any subsidiaries thereof.
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
For Immediate Release
 
CAYCE, S.C., March 30, 2012
South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G), principal subsidiary of SCANA Corporation (NYSE:SCG), and Santee Cooper, South Carolina's state-owned electric and water utility, have received approval for combined construction and operating licenses (COLs) from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for two new nuclear units at V. C. Summer Station in Jenkinsville, S.C.
 
"Receiving approval of our licenses to construct and operate units 2 and 3 at V.C. Summer is a significant event for our company and marks the culmination of an intense review by the NRC," said Kevin Marsh, chairman and CEO of SCANA.  "We look forward to building these two new nuclear units to enhance our ability to meet the energy needs of our customers."
 
Lonnie Carter, president and CEO of Santee Cooper, said, "These new nuclear units are a critical component of Santee Cooper's long-term plan to diversify our generation mix.  Access to reliable and low-cost electricity will be key to job creation and economic development opportunities as we continue rebuilding our state's economy and position South Carolina for the future."
 
About 1,000 workers are currently engaged in early-site preparation work at the V.C. Summer construction site. The project will peak at about 3,000 construction craft workers over the course of three to four years. The two units, each with a capacity of 1,117 megawatts, will then add 600 to 800 permanent jobs when they start generating electricity.
 
PROFILE
 
SCE&G is a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 664,000 customers in South Carolina.  The company also provides natural gas service to approximately 317,000 customers throughout the state.  More information about SCE&G is available at www.sceg.com.
 
SCANA Corporation, a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Cayce, S.C., is an energy-based holding company principally engaged, through subsidiaries, in electric and natural gas utility operations and other energy-related businesses.  Information about SCANA is available on the company's website at www.scana.com.
 
Santee Cooper is South Carolina's state-owned electric and water utility and the state's largest power producer. The ultimate source of electricity for 2 million South Carolinians, Santee Cooper is dedicated to being the state's leading resource for improving the quality of life for the people of South Carolina. For more information, visit www.santeecooper.com.


