FILE:SCG/SCG-8K-20120329100256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
This combined Form 8-K is separately furnished by SCANA Corporation and South Carolina Electric & Gas Company.  Information contained herein relating to any individual company is furnished by such company on its own behalf.  Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the other company.
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01
                                          
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On March 29, 2012, SCANA Corporation announced that its subsidiary South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G) has signed a preliminary agreement with Westinghouse Electric Company, LLC and Stone and Webster, Inc. related to challenged costs for the construction of SCE&G's new nuclear units. A press release providing additional details of this preliminary agreement is included herein as Exhibit 99.01.
 
Item 9.01
                                          
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  The signature of each registrant shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such registrant and any subsidiaries thereof.
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
 
Cayce, S.C., March 29, 2012...
SCANA subsidiary (NYSE:SCG) South Carolina Electric & Gas  Company (SCE&G), Westinghouse Electric Company, and The Shaw Group Inc. have signed a preliminary agreement related to costs for construction of the company's new nuclear units.  These challenged costs primarily relate to delays in receipt of the combined construction and operating license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, rock conditions at the site, design of structural modules and design of the shield building.  SCE&G's portion of these costs will be $138 million, $50 million less than the upper bound of $188 million originally disclosed.
 
After considering the impact of this preliminary agreement, along with current escalation rates, the projected cost of the project continues to be lower than the original cost projection approved by the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (SCPSC) in 2009.  SCE&G will seek to update its capital cost schedule with the SCPSC to reflect the impact of this preliminary agreement at the appropriate time.
 
SCE&G and Santee Cooper are building two 1,117 megawatt nuclear units at the site of the V.C. Summer Nuclear Station near Jenkinsville, S.C.  Under the provisions of the preliminary agreement, having taken into account the delay in receiving the COLs, the two new units are now expected to be completed in 2017 and 2018.
 
"We are pleased that we were able to resolve these issues through negotiations," said Kevin Marsh, CEO of SCANA.  "We remain firmly committed to construction of these two units and can now focus on receipt of our license from the NRC and proceeding with full nuclear construction."
 
PROFILE
SCE&G is a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 664,000 customers in South Carolina. The company also provides natural gas service to approximately 317,000 customers throughout the state. More information about SCE&G is available at www.sceg.com.
 
SCANA Corporation, a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Cayce, SC, is an energy-based holding company principally engaged, through subsidiaries, in electric and natural gas utility operations and other energy-related businesses.  Information about SCANA is available on the Company's website at www.scana.com.
 


