FILE:BMS/BMS-8K-20030423084523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5 - OTHER EVENTS
 
U.S. Department of Justice to block UPM-Kymmene acquisition of MACtac.
 
On April 15, 2003, Bemis Company, Inc. announced that it has received notice of the intent of the U.S. Department of Justice to file a civil antitrust lawsuit to block a subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene from acquiring the pressure sensitive materials business of Bemis Company.   On August 21, 2002, Bemis Company signed an agreement to sell its pressure sensitive materials business, known as Morgan Adhesives Company (MACtac),  to UPM-Kymmene for $420 million in cash.
 
The Department of Justice has also indicated that it expects to initiate a separate criminal investigation into competitive practices in the label stock industry.  Bemis expects to receive a subpoena with regard to this investigation in the future, although a significant amount of documentation has already been provided in conjunction with the proposed transaction.  The Company has received no indication of allegations against Bemis and will continue to fully cooperate with the requests of the Department of Justice.
 
 
ITEM 7.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
ITEM 9.  REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE (INFORMATION FURNISHED IN THIS ITEM 9 IS FURNISHED UNDER ITEM 9 AND ITEM 12, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION).
 
The following information is being furnished under Items 9 and 12 of Form 8-K, pursuant to interim guidance issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Release No. 33-8216 dated March 27, 2003.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE  DATED APRIL 15, 2003
 
BEMIS COMPANY, INC.
222 South Ninth Street
Suite 2300
Minneapolis, MN 55402-4099
 
For additional information please contact:
 
Melanie E. R. Miller
Vice President - Investor Relations
and Assistant Treasurer
(612) 376-3030
 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TO BLOCK UPM-KYMMENE ACQUISITION OF MACTAC
 
- - Bemis Company, Inc. (NYSE-BMS) said today that it has received notice of the intent of the U.S. Department of Justice to file a civil antitrust lawsuit to block a subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene from acquiring the Pressure Sensitive Materials Business of Bemis Company.   On August 21, 2002, Bemis Company signed an agreement to sell its pressure sensitive materials business segment to UPM-Kymmene for $420 million in cash.
MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA, April 15, 2003
 
The Department has also indicated that it expects to initiate a separate criminal investigation into competitive practices in the label stock industry.  Bemis expects to receive a subpoena with regard to this investigation in the future, although a significant amount of documentation has already been provided in conjunction with the proposed transaction.  The Company has received no indication of allegations against Bemis and will continue to fully cooperate with the requests of the Department.
 
Earnings guidance for 2003 for Bemis Company included only one quarter of operating results for the pressure sensitive materials business segment.  This guidance will be updated during the regular earnings release conference call scheduled for Wednesday, April 23, 2003 at 10:00 a.m.  The conference call will also be webcast and is available at www.bemis.com.
 
Bemis Company is a major supplier of flexible packaging and pressure sensitive materials used by leading food, consumer products, manufacturing, and other companies worldwide. Based in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Bemis employs about 12,000 individuals in 56 manufacturing facilities in 10 countries around the world.  More information about the company is available at our website, www.bemis.com.
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
PRESS RELEASE  DATED APRIL 23, 2003
 
BEMIS COMPANY, INC.
222 South Ninth Street
Suite 2300
Minneapolis, MN 55402-4099
 
For additional information please contact:
Melanie E. R. Miller
Vice President, Investor Relations
and Assistant Treasurer
(612) 376-3030
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
BEMIS COMPANY REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2003 RESULTS
 
MINNEAPOLIS, April 23, 2003  - Bemis Company, Inc. (NYSE-BMS) today reported quarterly diluted earnings of $0.66 per share for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003, slightly ahead of the prior year's earnings of $0.65 per share.  First quarter net sales increased 16 percent to a record $639 million from $553 million in the prior year.  Excluding the impact of acquisitions, net sales increased by 6 percent.
 
"Bemis continues to deliver positive results despite a challenging cost environment," said Jeff Curler, Bemis Company President and Chief Executive Officer.  "Steep increases in resin prices during the first quarter are being actively managed in our flexible packaging business segment and we are working closely with our customers to pass along increased resin prices in accordance with the terms of our existing sales agreements.  I am also pleased to see organic sales volume growth in our flexible packaging business compared to the first quarter of last year and sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2002.  New high barrier film structures and features are being introduced to the market, effectively raising the bar for performance in the industry, and our polyethylene product line is entering its seasonally strong second quarter with improved capacity.
 
We are disappointed in the first quarter performance of our pressure sensitive materials business after such a strong fourth quarter in 2002.  This business has been operating under severe conditions of uncertainty related to generally weak economic conditions and the proposed transaction to sell the business to UPM-Kymmene.  We continue to operate this business through a very tough economic environment and expect improvement in the remainder of the year."
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 
Flexible Packaging
Flexible packaging, representing 81 percent of total company net sales, reported net sales of $514 million in the first quarter, an increase of 18 percent compared to the same quarter in 2002.  Excluding the impact of acquisitions, net sales increased about 6 percent.  Operating profit for the first quarter was $67 million, up 4.1 percent from the first quarter of 2002.  As a percentage of net sales, operating profit decreased to 13.0 percent from 14.7 percent a year ago primarily reflecting the impact of the rapid increase in resin prices during the first quarter and higher pension expense for 2003.
 
"Raw material costs increased rapidly during the first quarter," Curler said.  "These increases dampened margins during the first quarter as contractual adjustments to selling prices lagged the raw material price increases.  We expect results to improve during the second quarter as selling prices are adjusted to absorb the remaining resin price increases in accordance with defined schedules in our customer agreements.  Our polyethylene product line continues to focus on cost control and improving manufacturing efficiencies.  New printing capacity has substantially improved our ability to manage the seasonal increase in polyethylene product orders for specialty packaging expected during the second quarter."
 
Pressure Sensitive Materials
First quarter net sales from the pressure sensitive materials business segment were $124 million, a 5.1 percent increase from the first quarter of 2002.  This segment contributed operating profit of $2.5 million or 2.0 percent of net sales for the quarter.  These results are lower than the operating profit of $5.0 million or 4.3 percent of net sales recorded in the first quarter of 2002.
 
On August 21, 2002, the Company announced an agreement to sell its pressure sensitive materials business segment to UPM-Kymmene for $420 million.  The European regulatory agency approved the transaction on October 16, 2002.  On April 15, 2003, the U.S. Department of Justice filed a civil complaint to block the proposed sale of this business to UPM-Kymmene, citing their concern that the sale would reduce competition in the production of bulk paper labelstock for use in variable information printing and prime labeling.
 
Commenting on the results of the pressure sensitive materials business segment, Curler said, "The uncertainties of the pending transaction magnify the need for concentration on cost control and performance objectives.  The leadership of this business remains focused and we continue to expect approximately 4 to 6 percent annual operating profit as a percentage of net sales in this weak economic environment."
 
Capital Structure
Total debt was $722 million, nearly equal to the year-end balance of $724 million.  Debt to total capitalization was 39 percent at March 31, 2003, compared to 40 percent at December 31, 2002
 
2003 Earnings Outlook
Bemis expects second quarter 2003 results to range from $0.83 to $0.86 per share.  For the full year 2003, management expects to deliver diluted earnings per share in the $3.15 to $3.30 range.  These estimates are based upon a full year of operating results for our pressure sensitive materials business segment.
 
 
Bemis Company, Inc. will Webcast an investor telephone conference regarding its first quarter 2003 financial results this morning at 10 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time.  Individuals may listen to the call on the Internet at www.bemis.com under "Investor Relations".  However, they are urged to check the website ahead of time to ensure their computers are configured for the audio stream.  Instructions for obtaining the required, free, downloadable software are available in a pre-event system test on the site.
 
Bemis Company is a major supplier of flexible packaging and pressure sensitive materials used by leading food, consumer products, manufacturing, and other companies worldwide.  Founded in 1858, the Company reported 2002 net sales of $2.4 billion.  The Company's flexible packaging business has a strong technical base in polymer chemistry, film extrusion, coating and laminating, printing and converting. The Company's  pressure sensitive materials business specializes in adhesive technologies.
Based in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Bemis employs about 12,000 individuals in 56 manufacturing facilities in 10 countries around the world.  More information about the company is available at our website, www.bemis.com.
 
Statements in this release that are not historical, including statements relating to the expected use of cash flow and future performance of the company, are considered "forward-looking" and are presented pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such content is subject to certain risks and uncertainties.  Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or those projected in any such forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors which are detailed in the Company's regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.
 
 


