FILE:BMS/BMS-8K-20061025092346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
BEMIS COMPANY, INC.
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On October 25, 2006, Bemis Company, Inc. issued a press release containing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2006, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report.  Earnings guidance for the balance of 2006 for Bemis Company is included with this press release and will be available during the regular earnings release conference call scheduled for Wednesday, October 25, 2006, at 10:00 a.m. (EDT). Individuals may listen to the call on the Internet at www.bemis.com under "Investor Relations."  However, they are urged to check the website ahead of time to ensure their computers are configured for the audio stream.  Instruction for obtaining the required, free, downloadable software are available in a pre-event system test on the site.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report contains certain non-GAAP financial measures, including:
        Segment operating profit as adjusted
        Segment operating profit as adjusted as a percentage of net sales
        Diluted earnings per share as adjusted
Each of these measures excludes the impact of restructuring and related charges or income from the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  Management believes these adjusted measures are useful to investors because they assist an investor's understanding of the impact of the Company's restructuring initiative on the comparability of the Company's operations from year-to-year.  Excluding the impact of restructuring and related charges also enables investors to compare our underlying operational results and trends before other charges that are considered by management to be non-recurring and do not relate to the Company's core operations.  Management uses these adjusted measures to monitor and evaluate operating performance and also for internal planning purposes.  These measures are subject to certain limitations because they do not reflect all charges that were actually recognized by the Company in accordance with GAAP.  As a result, investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial performance measures presented in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, these adjusted measures may not be calculated in the same manner as adjusted measures presented by other companies.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c).
                              
The October 25, 2006, Bemis Company, Inc. press release for the third quarter ended September 30, 2006, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report.
2
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
3

Exhibit 99
PRESS RELEASE  DATED October 25, 2006
BEMIS COMPANY, INC.
 Floor
One Neenah Center, 4
th
P.O. Box 669
Neenah, Wisconsin  54957-0669
For additional information please contact:
Melanie E. R. Miller
Vice President, Investor Relations
and Treasurer
(920)527-5045
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BEMIS COMPANY REPORTS THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
 Bemis Company, Inc. (NYSE-BMS) today reported quarterly diluted earnings of $0.45 per share for the third quarter ended September 30, 2006, which included $0.03 per share of restructuring and related charges.  Excluding the impact of restructuring and related charges, diluted earnings would have been $0.48 per share for the third quarter of 2006 compared to $0.41 per share for the same quarter of 2005, an 18.7 percent improvement.  (See attached schedule: "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Data".)  Third quarter net sales increased 3.8 percent to a third quarter record of $903.3 million from $870.1 million in the prior year.
NEENAH, WISCONSIN, October 25, 2006
Commenting on the results of the third quarter, Jeff Curler, Bemis Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "I am pleased to report strong earnings growth again this quarter.  Our capacity expansion efforts in key product lines are on schedule, and our 2006 restructuring effort to consolidate capacity into more efficient facilities is nearly complete.  Our market-focused business teams are successfully implementing growth strategies aimed at maintaining our leadership positions in key markets and growing our position in new product markets and regions of the world."
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Flexible Packaging
Flexible packaging, which represented about 83 percent of total Company net sales during the quarter, reported record net sales of $749.1 million in the third quarter, an increase of 3.6 percent compared to the same quarter in 2005.  Currency effects accounted for sales growth of 2.0 percent.  Segment operating profit for the third quarter of 2006 was $92.0 million, or 12.3 percent of net sales, which included restructuring and related charges of $5.1 million.  Restructuring and related charges of $5.1 million reflect the costs associated with our previously announced facility consolidation efforts that include the closure of five flexible packaging plants.  Segment operating profit for the third quarter of 2005 was $89.0 million.  Excluding restructuring and related charges, segment operating profit as a percentage of net sales would have increased to 13.0 percent from 12.3 percent a year ago.
Commenting on the flexible packaging business segment results for the quarter, Curler said, "We have accomplished a significant culture change in our flexible packaging segment this year.  While our core aptitude for innovation, value-added products and customer intimacy continue to drive top line growth, we are improving the efficiency of our capital assets with productivity initiatives and quality-oriented cost management efforts.  These improvements will continue to spread throughout the organization and deliver a greater return on capital and a more efficient platform for future expansion.  This quarter, we enjoyed strong sales growth in our largest market, meat and cheese, and double-digit sales growth in a number of other important markets, including medical device, health and hygiene, bakery, multipack and pet products.   Raw material cost increases during the third quarter dampened operating margins as selling price adjustments lagged cost increases.  Sales mix improvements offset some of the short-term impact of the raw material cost increases.  Our customers have announced growth strategies that depend on the success of innovative new products and marketing initiatives.  We are pleased to be an integral player in these customer growth strategies and are well-positioned to meet the demands of our markets."
Pressure Sensitive Materials
Third quarter net sales from the pressure sensitive materials business segment were $154.2 million, a 4.8 percent increase from the third quarter of 2005.  Currency effects accounted for sales growth of 2.3 percent.  Segment operating profit of $11.4 million, or 7.4 percent of net sales, included restructuring and related charges of $0.6 million related to the previously announced closure of one plant.  Excluding the impact of these charges, segment operating profit would have been $12.0 million or 7.8 percent of net sales for the quarter compared to the third quarter of 2005 when segment operating profit was $8.7 million or 5.9 percent of net sales.
Commenting on the results of the pressure sensitive materials business segment, Curler noted, "This segment has achieved steady improvement in operating profit.  We have substantially improved production efficiencies to create added capacity and reduced waste to control costs.  Continued volume growth, especially in the higher margin graphic and technical product lines, is evidence of the strength of this business and an effective growth strategy.   Product innovation and ongoing quality service improvements will be an integral part of this segment's future sales growth."
Restructuring and Related Charges
In January of 2006, the Company announced the planned closure of five flexible packaging facilities and one pressure sensitive materials facility in order to consolidate production capacity and improve overall cost structure and efficiency.  These efforts were substantially complete as of September 30, 2006.  Restructuring and related charges incurred during the third quarter totaled $5.5 million, primarily related to employee costs and recorded as a component of other costs (income).
Other Costs (Income), Net
During the third quarter of 2006, other costs and income included $5.0 million of costs resulting from the 2006 restructuring activities.  These charges were offset by $5.5 million of financial income and a $4.4 million favorable resolution of a litigated foreign excise tax liability.
Capital Structure
Total debt to total capitalization was 32.2 percent at September 30, 2006, compared to 35.7 percent at December 31, 2005.   Total debt as of September 30, 2006 was $781.7 million, a decrease of $62.4 million from the balance of $844.1 million at December 31, 2005.  Strong cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, were used to support dividend payments, a strong 2006 capital expenditure program, share repurchases and debt reduction.
2006 Earnings Outlook
Management expects fourth quarter 2006 diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.41 to $0.44 per share including a restructuring charge of approximately $0.04 per share.  Management continues to expect capital expenditures to be in the $175 to $185 million range for 2006.
Presentation of Non-GAAP Information
Some of the information presented in this press release reflects adjustments to "As reported" results to exclude certain amounts related to the Company's restructuring initiative.  This adjusted information should not be construed as an alternative to the reported results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP).  It is provided solely to assist in an investor's understanding of the impact of the Company's restructuring initiative on the comparability of the Company's operations.  A reconciliation of the GAAP amounts to the non-GAAP amounts is included with this press release.  Additional details related to these non-GAAP disclosures are provided in the Form 8-K that the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date of this press release.
Forward Looking Statements
Statements in this release that are not historical, including statements relating to the expected future performance of the Company, are considered "forward-looking" and are presented pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such content is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to future changes in cost or availability of raw materials, changes in customer order patterns, the results of competitive bid processes, estimates of restructuring and related charges, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in prevailing market interest rates.  Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or those projected in any such forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors which are detailed in the Company's regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Bemis Company, Inc. will Webcast an investor telephone conference regarding its third quarter 2006 financial results this morning at 10 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time.  Individuals may listen to the call on the Internet at www.bemis.com under "Investor Relations".  However, they are urged to check the website ahead of time to ensure their computers are configured for the audio stream.  Instructions for obtaining the required, free, downloadable software are available in a pre-event system test on the site.
Bemis Company is a major supplier of flexible packaging and pressure sensitive materials used by leading food, consumer products, manufacturing, and other companies worldwide.  Founded in 1858, the Company reported 2005 net sales of $3.5 billion.  The Company's flexible packaging business has a strong technical base in polymer chemistry, film extrusion, coating and laminating, printing and converting. The Company's pressure sensitive materials business specializes in adhesive technologies.  Headquartered in Neenah, Wisconsin, Bemis employs about 16,000 individuals in 56 manufacturing facilities in 10 countries around the world.  More information about the Company is available at our website, www.bemis.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 


