FILE:BMS/BMS-8K-20090728160825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
                                            
Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On July 22, 2009, Bemis Company, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Equity Underwriting Agreement") with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as representatives of the several underwriters therein (collectively, the "Underwriters") to issue and sell 7,700,000 shares of the Company's common stock (the "Common Stock"), $0.10 par value per share, in a public offering.  In addition, the Company granted the Underwriters an option, exercisable for 30 days from the date of the Equity Underwriting Agreement, to purchase up to an additional 1,155,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock to cover overallotments.  The Equity Underwriting Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The offering of the Company's Common Stock closed on July 28, 2009. The Company issued 8,055,000 shares of Common Stock, including 355,000 shares sold pursuant to the partial exercise of the Underwriters' overallotment option. The Company received proceeds from the offering of approximately $200,005,650, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions but before estimated offering expenses of approximately $335,000. The Underwriters continue to have a remaining overallotment option for 800,000 shares.
 
The Equity Underwriting Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants by the Company.  It also provides for customary indemnification by each of the Company and the Underwriters against certain liabilities and customary contribution provisions in respect of those liabilities.
 
The information contained herein is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to purchase the shares.  The Company's offer to sell the Shares is set forth in the prospectus supplement dated July 22, 2009 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on July 23, 2009 (the "Prospectus Supplement"), to the prospectus dated July 20, 2009 (the "Prospectus") and previously filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on July 20, 2009, as part of the Company's registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-160681).
 
Item 8.01               Other Events
 
Issuance of Notes
 
On July 27, 2009, the Company issued $400,000,000 principal amount of its 5.65% Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Notes") and  $400,000,000 principal amount of its 6.80% Notes due 2019 (the "2019 Notes" and together with the 2014 Notes, the "Notes").  The Notes were issued in the form filed as Exhibit 4.1 and Exhibit 4.2 hereto and were sold pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement (the "Debt Underwriting Agreement") with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, BNP Paribas Securities Corp. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as representatives of the several underwriters therein. The Debt Underwriting Agreement is included as Exhibit 1.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 24, 2009.
 
The Notes sold pursuant to the Debt Underwriting Agreement are governed by the terms of an Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1995, entered into with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee.  The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank prior to all of the Company's subordinated indebtedness and on an equal basis with all of the Company's other senior unsecured indebtedness.  Interest on the Notes accrues at rates of 5.65% and 6.80% per annum for the 2014 Notes and 2019 Notes, respectively, and is payable semi-annually in arrears on each February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2010.
 
The Company may, at its option, at any time and from time to time redeem the notes, in whole or in part, on not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice mailed to the holders of the notes. The notes will be redeemable at a redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes to be redeemed that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption (except that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year
 
consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points in the case of the 2014 notes and Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points in the case of the 2019 notes.
 
Additionally, if, for any reason, (i) our acquisition (the "Acquisition") of the food packaging business and certain related assets of Alcan Holdings Switzerland AG and Alcan Corporation located in the United States, Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and New Zealand is not completed on or prior to March 31, 2010, or (ii) the purchase agreement related to the Acquisition is terminated on or prior to March 31, 2010, we will redeem all of the notes on the special mandatory redemption date at the special mandatory redemption price. Notice of a special mandatory redemption will be mailed, with a copy to the trustee, promptly after the occurrence of the event triggering such redemption to each holder of notes at its registered address. If funds sufficient to pay the special mandatory redemption price of all of the notes to be redeemed on the special mandatory redemption date are deposited with the paying agent under the indenture on or before such special mandatory redemption date, on and after such special mandatory redemption date, the notes will cease to bear interest and, other than the right to receive the special mandatory redemption price, all rights under the notes shall terminate.
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the 2014 Notes and 2019 Notes attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and Exhibit 4.2, respectively) with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above, each holder of the Notes has the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of such holder's Note (a "Change of Control Offer"), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase, subject to certain other rights of holders of the Notes.  The Company is not required to make a Change of Control Offer with respect to the Notes if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all the Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
Issuance of Common Stock
 
On July 28, 2009, the Company completed the issuance and sale of its offering of 8,055,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, at a price of $26.00 per share pursuant to the terms of the Equity Underwriting Agreement.  The offering of the shares is more fully described above under "Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement."
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
Underwriting Agreement
 
July 22, 2009
 
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
One Bryant Park New York, New York 10036
 
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 383 Madison Avenue New York, New York 10179
 
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC 301 S. College Street, 6th Floor Charlotte, NC 28288
 
As Representatives of the
several Underwriters listed
in Schedule 1 hereto
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Bemis Company, Inc., a Missouri corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Underwriters listed in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you are acting as representatives (the "Representatives"), an aggregate of 7,700,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company (the "Underwritten Shares") and, at the option of the Underwriters, up to an additional 1,155,000 shares of common stock of the Company (the "Option Shares").  The Underwritten Shares and the Option Shares are herein referred to as the "Shares". The shares of common stock of the Company to be outstanding after giving effect to the sale of the Shares are referred to herein as the "Stock".
 
The Company hereby confirms its agreement with the several Underwriters concerning the purchase and sale of the Shares, as follows:
 
1.
         
Registration Statement
.  The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-160681), including a prospectus (the "Base Prospectus"), relating to the Securities to be issued from time to time by the Company.  The Company has also filed with, or
 
transmitted for filing to, or shall promptly hereafter file with or transmit for filing to, the Commission a prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act (the "Prospectus Supplement"). The term "Registration Statement" means the registration statement, as amended at the time it becomes effective, including the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act to be part of the registration statement at the time of its effectiveness ("Rule 430 Information"). The term "Prospectus" means the Base Prospectus as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement specifically relating to the Securities in the form first used (or made available upon request of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the Securities Act) in connection with confirmation of sales of the Securities. The term "Preliminary Prospectus" means the preliminary prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities together with the Base Prospectus. If the Company has filed an abbreviated registration statement pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act (the "Rule 462 Registration Statement"), then any reference herein to the term "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include such Rule 462 Registration Statement.  Any reference in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, Base Prospectus, Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act, as of the effective date of the Registration Statement or the date of such Base Prospectus, Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be and any reference to "amend", "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after such date under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act") that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
 
At or prior to the time when sales of the Shares were first made (the "Time of Sale"), the Company had prepared the following information (collectively with the information referred to in the next succeeding sentence, the "Time of Sale Information"): a Preliminary Prospectus dated July 20, 2009, and each "free-writing prospectus" (as defined pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act) listed on Annex B hereto as constituting part of the Time of Sale Information.
 
2.
         
Purchase of the Shares by the Underwriters
.  (a)  The Company agrees to issue and sell the Underwritten Shares to the several Underwriters as provided in this Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective number of Underwritten Shares set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule 1 hereto at a price per share (the "Purchase Price") of $24.83.  The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Shares except upon payment for all the Shares to be purchased as provided herein.
In addition, the Company agrees to issue and sell the Option Shares to the several Underwriters as provided in this Agreement, and the Underwriters, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, shall have the option to purchase, severally and not jointly, from the Company the Option Shares at the Purchase Price less an amount per share equal to any dividends or distributions declared by the Company and payable on the Underwritten Shares but not payable on the Option Shares, for the sole purpose of covering sales of Shares in excess of the Underwritten Shares.
 
If any Option Shares are to be purchased, the number of Option Shares to be purchased by each Underwriter shall be the number of Option Shares which bears the same ratio to the aggregate number of Option Shares being purchased as the number of Underwritten Shares set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter in Schedule 1 hereto (or such number increased as set forth in Section 10 hereof) bears to the aggregate number of Underwritten Shares being purchased from the Company by the several Underwriters, subject, however, to such adjustments to eliminate any fractional Shares as the Representatives in their sole discretion shall make.
 
The Underwriters may exercise the option to purchase Option Shares at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, on or before the thirtieth day following the date of the Prospectus, by written notice from the Representative to the Company.  Such notice shall set forth the aggregate number of Option Shares as to which the option is being exercised and the date and time when the Option Shares are to be delivered and paid for, which may be the same date and time as the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined) but shall not be earlier than the Closing Date or later than the tenth full business day (as hereinafter defined) after the date of such notice (unless such time and date are postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10 hereof).  Any such notice shall be given at least two business days prior to the date and time of delivery specified therein.
 
(b)
       
The Company understands that the Underwriters intend to make a public offering of the Shares as soon after the effectiveness of this Agreement as in the judgment of the Representatives is advisable, and initially to offer the Shares on the terms set forth in the Prospectus.  The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters may offer and sell Shares to or through any affiliate of an Underwriter and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Shares purchased by it to or through any Underwriter.
 
(c)
       
Payment for and delivery of the Shares will be made, in the case of the Underwritten Shares at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017 at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on July 28, 2009, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing or, in the case of the Option Shares, on the date and at the time and place specified by the Representatives in the written notice of the Underwriters' election to purchase such Option Shares.  The time and date of such payment for the Underwritten
Shares is referred to herein as the "Closing Date", and the time and date for such payment for the Option Shares, if other than the Closing Date, is herein referred to as the "Additional Closing Date".
 
(d)
       
Payment for the Shares to be purchased on the Closing Date or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, shall be made against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters of the Shares to be purchased on such date with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of such Shares duly paid by the Company.  The certificates for the Shares will be made available for inspection and packaging by the Representatives at the office of DTC or its designated custodian not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be.
 
(e)
       
The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters are acting solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company with respect to the offering of Shares contemplated hereby (including in connection with determining the terms of the offering) and not as a financial advisor or a fiduciary to, or an agent of, the Company or any other person.  Additionally, neither the Representatives nor any other Underwriter is advising the Company or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction.  The Company shall consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Underwriters shall have no responsibility or liability to the Company with respect thereto. Any review by the Underwriters of the Company, the transactions contemplated hereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and shall not be on behalf of the Company.
 
3.
         
Representations and Warranties of the Company
.  The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter that:
 
(a)
       
Preliminary Prospectus
.  No order preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus has been issued by the Commission, and each Preliminary Prospectus, at the time of filing thereof, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in any Preliminary Prospectus.  The statistical and industry data included in each Preliminary Prospectus are based on or derived from sources that the Company believes to be reliable and accurate.
provided
(b)
       
Time of Sale Information
.  The Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in such Time of Sale Information.  No statement of material fact included in the Prospectus has been omitted from the Time of Sale Information and no statement of material fact included in the Time of Sale Information that is required to be included in the Prospectus has been omitted therefrom.
provided
 
(c)
       
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
.  The Company (including its agents and representatives, other than the Underwriters in their capacity as such) has not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any "written communication" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Shares (each such communication by the Company or its agents and representatives (other than a communication referred to in clauses (i) (ii) and (iii) below) an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus") other than (i) any document not constituting a prospectus pursuant to Section 2(a)(10)(a) of the Securities Act or Rule 134 under the Securities Act, (ii) the Preliminary Prospectus, (iii) the Prospectus, (iv) the documents listed on Annex B hereto as constituting the Time of Sale Information and (v) any electronic road show or other written communications, in each case approved in writing in advance by the Representatives.  Each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, has been or will be (within the time period specified in Rule 433) filed in accordance with the Securities Act (to the extent required thereby) and, when taken together with the Preliminary Prospectus accompanying, or delivered prior to delivery of, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
provided
 
(d)
       
Registration Statement and Prospectus
.  The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date hereof; and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company.  No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued by the Commission and no
proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or related to the offering has been initiated or threatened by the Commission; as of the applicable effective date of the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, the Registration Statement complied and will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act, and did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; and as of the date of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto and as of the Closing Date, and as of the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, the Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto.  The statistical and industry data included in the Prospectus are based on or derived from sources that the Company believes to be reliable and accurate.
provided
 
(e)
       
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer.
  At the date of filing of the Registration Statement and at the date hereof, the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 405"), including not having been and not being an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
 
(f)
        
Incorporated Documents
.  The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Time of Sale Information, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Exchange Act, of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act") and none of such documents contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Time of Sale Information, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
(g)
       
Financial Statements
.  The financial statements and the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act as applicable, and present
fairly the financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their cash flows for the periods specified; such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered thereby, and the supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein; and the other financial information included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus has been derived from the accounting records of the Company and its subsidiaries and presents fairly the information shown thereby.
 
(h)
       
No Material Adverse Change
.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; and, since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, there has not been any material change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
 
(i)
        
Organization and Good Standing
.  The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
 
(j)
        
Capitalization
.  The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, and all of the issued shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
 
(k)
       
The Shares
.  The Shares to be issued and sold by the Company hereunder have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered and paid for as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued, will be fully paid and nonassessable and will conform to the descriptions thereof in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; and the issuance of the Shares is not subject to any preemptive or similar rights.
(l)
        
No Conflicts
.  The issue and sale of the Shares and the compliance by the Company with all of the provisions of this Agreement, and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated will not conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company is subject, except to the extent that any such breach, violation or default will not have a material adverse effect on the general affairs, management, consolidated financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation or By-laws of the Company or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties; and no consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any such court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the Shares or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Shares by the Underwriters.
 
(m)
      
Certain Statements
.  The statements set forth in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the caption "Description of Common Stock We May Offer", insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the Shares, and under the caption "Underwriting", and the statements set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the caption "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings", in each case insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate, complete and fair in all material respects; provided, however, that this representation and warranty shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon or in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
 
(n)
       
No Violation or Defaults
.  The Company is not in violation of its Articles of Incorporation or By-laws and no subsidiary of the Company is in material violation of its Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, except to the extent that any such default will not have a material adverse effect on the general affairs, management, consolidated financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
(o)
       
Legal Proceedings
.  Other than as set forth in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject which would reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on the general affairs, management, consolidated financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries or on the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and, to the best of the Company's knowledge, no such proceedings are threatened or contemplated by governmental authorities or threatened by others.
 
(p)
       
Investment Company Act
.  The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Shares and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act").
 
(q)
       
Independent Accountants
.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are independent registered public accountants as required by the Exchange Act.
 
(r)
        
Title to Intellectual Property
.  The Company and its subsidiaries own, or possess adequate rights to, all material patents, trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights or information necessary for the conduct of their businesses as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, and the Company has not received any notice of infringement of or conflict with the asserted rights of others in that respect, and does not know of any basis therefor, which, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on the general affairs, management, consolidated financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
(s)
       
Hazardous Substances
.  There has been no storage, disposal, generation, manufacture, refinement, transportation, handling or treatment of toxic wastes, hazardous wastes or hazardous substances by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (or, to the knowledge of the Company, any of their predecessors in interest) at, upon or from any of the property now or previously owned or leased by the Company or its subsidiaries in violation of any applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, judgment, decree or permit or which would require remedial action under any applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, judgment, decree or permit, except for any violation or remedial action which would not have, or would not be reasonably likely to have, individually or in the aggregate with all such violations and remedial actions, a material adverse effect on the general affairs, management, consolidated financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries; there has been no material
spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release of any kind onto such property or into the environment surrounding such property of any toxic wastes, hazardous wastes or hazardous substances due to or caused by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or with respect to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries have knowledge, except for any such spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release which would not have, or would not be reasonably likely to have, individually or in the aggregate with all such spills, discharges, leaks, emissions, injections, escapes, dumpings and releases, a material adverse effect on the general affairs, management, consolidated financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
(t)
        
Significant Subsidiaries
.  The only subsidiaries of the Company that are "significant subsidiaries" as defined in Rule 1-02(v) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act are Morgan Adhesives Company, Curwood, Inc., Milprint, Inc. and Bemis Cayman Islands.
 
(u)
       
Organization and Good Standing of Significant Subsidiaries
.  Each of Morgan Adhesives Company, Curwood, Inc. and Milprint, Inc. has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; and each of Bemis Cayman Islands and Dixie Toga S.A. is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation; and, except as set forth in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Morgan Adhesives Company, Curwood, Inc., Milprint, Inc. and DEMF DT Holdings I, LLC, and 94% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Bemis Cayman Islands, are owned directly by the Company free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities and claims, 6% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Bemis Cayman Islands is owned directly by DEMF DT Holdings I, LLC free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities and claims, and all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Dixie Toga S.A., are owned directly by Bemis Cayman Islands free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities and claims.
 
(v)
       
Stabilization
.  None of the Company or any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D under the Securities Act, each an "Affiliate") has taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or which has constituted or which might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Shares.
 
(w)
      
Underwriting Agreement
.  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
(x)
       
Sarbanes-Oxley
.  There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company or any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to
comply with any provision of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith.
 
(y)
       
Accounting Controls
.  The Company and each of its subsidiaries maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences; and the Company maintains a system of "disclosure controls and procedures" (as defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act).
 
(z)
       
OFAC
.  None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or Affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("OFAC"); and the Company
will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering of the Shares hereunder, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person
currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
 
Each certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Underwriters or their counsel shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to the Underwriters as to the matters covered thereby.
 
4.
         
Further Agreements of the Company
.  The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter that:
 
(a)
       
Required Filings.
  The Company will file the final Prospectus with the Commission within the time periods specified by Rule 424(b) and Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act, will file any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act; and will file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Prospectus and for so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Shares; and the Company will furnish copies of the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (to the extent not previously delivered) to the Underwriters in New York City prior to 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on the business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement in such quantities as the Representatives may reasonably request. The Company will pay the registration fees for this offering within the time period
required by Rule 456(b)(1)(i) under the Securities Act (without giving effect to the proviso therein) and in any event prior to the Closing Date.
 
(b)
       
Delivery of Copies.
  The Company will deliver, without charge, (i) to the Representatives, two signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and each amendment thereto, in each case including all exhibits and consents filed therewith; and (ii) to each Underwriter (A) a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and each amendment thereto, in each case including all exhibits and consents filed therewith and (B) during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below), as many copies of the Prospectus (including all amendments and supplements thereto) and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as the Representatives may reasonably request.  As used herein, the term "Prospectus Delivery Period" means such period of time after the first date of the public offering of the Shares as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters a prospectus relating to the Shares is required by law to be delivered (or required to be delivered but for Rule 172 under the Securities Act) in connection with sales of the Shares by any Underwriter or dealer.
 
(c)
       
Amendments or Supplements; Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses.
  Before making, preparing, using, authorizing, approving, referring to or filing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and before filing any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, whether before or after the time that the Registration Statement becomes effective the Company will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters a copy of the proposed Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, amendment or supplement for review and will not make, prepare, use, authorize, approve, refer to or file any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably objects.
 
(d)
       
Notice to the Representatives.
  The Company will advise the Representatives promptly, and confirm such advice in writing, (i) when the Registration Statement has become effective; (ii) when any amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed or becomes effective; (iii) when any supplement to the Prospectus or any amendment to the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus has been filed; (iv) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or the receipt of any comments from the Commission relating to the Registration Statement or any other request by the Commission for any additional information; (v) of the issuance by the Commission of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act; (vi) of the occurrence of any event within the Prospectus Delivery Period as a result of which the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not
misleading; and (vii) of the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act; and (viii) of the receipt by the Company of any notice with respect to any suspension of the qualification of the Shares for offer and sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or suspending any such qualification of the Shares and, if any such order is issued, will obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
 
(e)
       
Time of Sale Information.
  If at any time prior to the Closing Date (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Time of Sale Information as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Information to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission (to the extent required) and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representatives may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Time of Sale Information as may be necessary so that the statements in the Time of Sale Information as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances, be misleading or so that the Time of Sale Information will comply with law.
 
(f)
        
Ongoing Compliance
.  If during the Prospectus Delivery Period (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representatives may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Prospectus as may be necessary so that the statements in the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Prospectus will comply with law.
 
(g)
       
Blue Sky Compliance.
  The Company will qualify the Shares for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for distribution of the Shares; that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) file any
provided
general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not otherwise so subject.
 
(h)
       
Earning Statement. 
The Company will make generally available to its security holders and the Representatives as soon as practicable an earning statement that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 of the Commission promulgated thereunder covering a period of at least twelve months beginning with the first fiscal quarter of the Company occurring after the "effective date" (as defined in Rule 158) of the Registration Statement.
 
(i)
        
Clear Market.
  For a period of 90 days after the date of the Prospectus, the Company will not (i) offer, pledge, announce the intention to sell, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of, directly or indirectly, any shares of Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Stock or (ii) enter into any swap or other agreement that transfers, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of the Stock, whether any such transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Stock or such other securities, in cash or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, other than the Shares to be sold hereunder, any shares of Stock of the Company issued under Company Stock Plans (as hereinafter defined) or sold to an affiliate of Rio Tinto plc pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement dated as of July 5, 2009 between the Company and Pechiney Plastic Packaging, Inc. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if (1) during the last 17 days of the 90-day restricted period, the Company issues an earnings release or material news or a material event relating to the Company occurs; or (2) prior to the expiration of the 90-day restricted period, the Company announces that it will release earnings results during the 16-day period beginning on the last day of the 90-day period, the restrictions imposed by this Agreement shall continue to apply until the expiration of the 18-day period beginning on the issuance of the earnings release or the occurrence of the material news or material event. "Company Stock Plans" means:  the Bemis Company, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, amended and restated as of August 4, 1999, the Bemis Company, Inc. 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, amended and restated as of January 1, 2008, the Bemis Company, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, amended and restated as of January 1, 2008, and the Bemis Investment Incentive Plan, amended and restated as of January 1, 2006.
 
(j)
        
Use of Proceeds.
  The Company will apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Shares as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the heading "Use of Proceeds".
 
(k)
       
No Stabilization.
  The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Shares.
(l)
        
Record Retention
.  The Company will, pursuant to reasonable procedures developed in good faith, retain copies of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 433 under the Securities Act.
 
(m)
      
Exchange Listing
.  The Company will use its best efforts to list, subject to notice of issuance, the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
5.
         
Certain Agreements of the Underwriters
.  Each Underwriter hereby represents and agrees that it has not and will not use, authorize use of, refer to, or participate in the planning for use of, any "free writing prospectus", as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (which term includes use of any written information furnished to the Commission by the Company and not incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any press release issued by the Company) other than (i) a free writing prospectus that, solely as a result of use by such underwriter, would not trigger an obligation to file such free writing prospectus with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433, (ii) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus listed on Annex B or prepared pursuant to Section 3(c) or Section 4(c) above (including any electronic road show), or (iii) any free writing prospectus prepared by such underwriter and approved by the Company in advance in writing (each such free writing prospectus referred to in clauses (i) or (iii), an "Underwriter Free Writing Prospectus").  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Underwriters may use a term sheet substantially in the form of Annex C hereto without the consent of the Company.
 
6.
         
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
.  The obligation of each Underwriter to purchase Shares on the Closing Date or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, as provided herein is subject to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
 
(a)
       
Registration Compliance; No Stop Order.
  No order suspending the effectiveness of Registration Statement shall be in effect, and no proceeding for such purpose, pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or pursuant to Section 8A under the Securities Act shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission; the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission under the Securities Act (in the case of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act) and in accordance with Section 4(a) hereof; and all requests by the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representatives.
the
 
(b)
       
Representations and Warranties.
  The representations and warranties of the Company contained herein shall be true and correct on the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be; and the statements of the Company and its officers made in any certificates delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be.
(c)
       
No Downgrade.
  Subsequent to the earlier of (A) the Time of Sale and (B) the execution and delivery of this Agreement, if there are any debt securities or preferred stock of, or guaranteed by, the Company or any of its subsidiaries that are rated by a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as such term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded any such debt securities or preferred stock of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as such term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of any such debt securities or preferred stock (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading) and (iii) no notice of any intended or potential downgrade shall have been received by the Company.
 
(d)
       
No Material Adverse Change.
  No event or condition of a type described in Section 3(h) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not described in the Time of Sale Information (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the Prospectus (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the effect of which in the judgment of the Representatives makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Shares on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
 
(e)
       
Officer's Certificate.
  The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date a certificate of an executive officer of the Company who has specific knowledge of the Company's financial matters and is satisfactory to the Representatives (i) confirming that such officer has carefully reviewed the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus and, to the best knowledge of such officer, the representations set forth in Sections 3(b) or 3(d) hereof are true and correct, (ii) confirming that the other representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct and that the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be and (iii) to the effect set forth in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) above.
 
(f)
        
Comfort Letters.
  On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (U.S.) and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (Canada) shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; that the letter delivered on the Closing Date, or the Additional
provided
Closing Date, as the case may be, shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be.
 
(g)
       
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Company.
  Faegre & Benson LLP, counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, their written opinion and 10b-5 statement, dated the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Annex A-1 hereto.
 
(h)
       
Opinion of General Counsel of the Company
.  The General Counsel of the Company, shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, his written opinion, dated the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Annex A-2 hereto.
 
(i)
        
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Underwriters.
  The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, an opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such documents and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
 
(j)
        
No Legal Impediment to Issuance.
  No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, prevent the issuance or sale of the Shares; and no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, prevent the issuance or sale of the Shares.
 
(k)
       
Good Standing
.  The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, satisfactory evidence of the good standing of the Company and its subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as the Representatives may reasonably request, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions.
 
(l)
        
Exchange Listing.
  The Shares to be delivered on the Closing Date or Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, shall have been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject to official notice of issuance.
 
(m)
      
Lock-up Agreements
.  The "lock-up" agreements, each substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, between you and certain shareholders, officers and directors of the Company relating to sales and certain other dispositions of shares of Stock or certain other securities, delivered to you on or before the date hereof, shall be full force and effect on the Closing Date or Additional Closing Date, as the case may be.
 
(n)
       
Additional Documents.
  On or prior to the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives such further certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request.
 
All opinions, letters, certificates and evidence mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters.
 
7.
         
Indemnification and Contribution
.
 
(a)
       
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
  The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, not misleading, (ii) or any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
 
(b)
       
Indemnification of the Company.
  Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in
reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information, it being understood and agreed that the only such information consists of the following: The fourth and fifth paragraphs of text under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement and the Prospectus Supplement concerning the terms of offering, including the concession and reallowance to certain dealers, by the Underwriters; and the thirteenth and fourteenth paragraphs of text under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement and the Prospectus Supplement relating to stabilization, over-allotment and syndicate covering transactions by the Underwriters.
 
(c)
       
Notice and Procedures.
  If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) (b) above, such person (the "Indemnified Person") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 7 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under this Section 7.  If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person (who shall not, without the consent of the Indemnified Person, be counsel to the Indemnifying Person) to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 7 that the Indemnifying Party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.  It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  Any such
or
provided
provided
further
separate firm for any Underwriter, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control persons of such Underwriter shall be designated in writing by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, and any such separate firm for the Company, its directors, its officers who signed the Registration Statement and any control persons of the Company shall be designated in writing by the Company.  The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.  No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
 
(d)
       
Contribution.
  If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Shares or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Company from the sale of the Shares and the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters in connection therewith, in each case as set forth in the table on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate offering price of the Shares.  The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among
other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
(e)
       
Limitation on Liability.
  The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above.  The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no event shall an Underwriter be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by such Underwriter with respect to the offering of the Shares exceeds the amount of any damages that such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint.
pro
rata
allocation
 
(f)
        
Non-Exclusive Remedies.
  The remedies provided for in this Section 7 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any Person at law or in equity.
Indemnified
 
8.
         
Effectiveness of Agreement
.  This Agreement shall become effective upon  the execution and delivery hereof by the parties hereto.
 
9.
         
Termination
.  This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange or the over-the-counter market; (ii) trading of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) there shall have occurred any material disruption in settlement or clearance service; (iv) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Shares on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
10.
       
Defaulting Underwriter
.  (a)  If, on the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, any defaults on its obligation to purchase the Shares that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Underwriters may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Shares by other persons satisfactory to the Company on the terms contained in this Agreement.  If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Underwriter, the non-defaulting Underwriters do not arrange for the purchase of such Shares, then the Company shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Underwriters to purchase such Shares.  If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Shares of a defaulting Underwriter, either the non-defaulting Underwriters or the Company may postpone the Closing Date, or the Additional Closing Date, as the case may be, for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company or counsel for the Underwriters may be necessary in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company agrees to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus that effects any such changes.  As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in Schedule 1 hereto that, pursuant to this Section 10, purchases Shares that a defaulting Underwriter agreed but failed to purchase.
Underwriter
 
(b)
       
If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Shares of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate number of Shares that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-eleventh of the aggregate number of all Shares, then the Company shall have the right to require each non-defaulting Underwriter to purchase the number of Shares that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Underwriter's share (based on the number of Shares that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Shares of such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters for which such arrangements have not been made.
pro
rata
 
(c)
       
If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Shares of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the number of such Shares that remains unpurchased exceeds one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Shares, or if the Company shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Underwriters.  Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 10 shall be without liability on the part of the Company, except that the Company will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 11 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 7 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect.
(d)
       
Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Underwriter of any liability it may have to the Company or any non-defaulting Underwriter for damages caused by its default.
 
11.
       
Payment of Expenses
.
  (a)  Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company will pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations hereunder, including without limitation, (i) the costs incident to the authorization, issuance, sale, preparation and delivery of the Shares and any taxes payable in that connection; (ii) the costs incident to the preparation, printing and filing under the Securities Act of the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (including all exhibits, amendments and supplements thereto) and the distribution thereof; (iii) the costs of reproducing and distributing this Agreement; (iv) the fees and expenses of the Company's counsel and independent accountants; (v) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the registration or qualification and determination of eligibility for investment of the Shares under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and the preparation, printing and distribution of a Blue Sky Memorandum (including the related fees and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters); (vi) the fees and expenses of the Transfer Agent (including related fees and expenses of any counsel to such party); (vii) all expenses and application fees incurred in connection with any filing with, and clearance of the offering by, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; and (viii) all expenses incurred by the Company in connection with any "road show" presentation to potential investors.
 
(b)
       
If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 9, (ii) the Company for any reason fails to tender the Shares for delivery to the Underwriters or (iii) the Underwriters decline to purchase the Shares for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company agrees to reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
 
12.
       
Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates of each Underwriter referred to in Section 7 hereof.  Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein.  No purchaser of Shares from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase.
 
13.
       
Survival
.  The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the Underwriters contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto
shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Shares and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters.
 
14.
       
Certain Defined Terms
.  For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; and (c) the term "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; and (d) the term "significant subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act.
 
15.
       
Miscellaneous
.  (a)    Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC shall be binding upon the Underwriters.
Authority of the Representatives.
 
(b)
       
Notices.
  All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication.  Notices to the Underwriters shall be given to the Representatives c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, One Bryant Park, New York, New York, 10036, (fax: 646-855-3073), Attention: Syndicate Department, with a copy to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, One Bryant Park, New York, NY 10036, (fax: 212-230-8730), Attention: ECM Legal; J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10179 (fax: 212-622-2614), Attention: Equity Syndicate Desk; and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, 301 S. College Street, Charlotte, NC 28288-0613, (fax: 704-383-9165), Attention: Transaction Management Department.  Notices to the Company shall be given to it at Bemis Company Inc., 222 South Ninth Street, Minneapolis, MN 55402, (fax: 612-376-3150); Attention: Melanie E.R. Miller.
 
(c)
       
Governing Law.
  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
(d)
       
Counterparts.
  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
(e)
       
Amendments or Waivers.
  No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
(f)
        
Headings.
  The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement.
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing in the space provided below.
 
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Annex A-1
 
1.             The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date of the Underwriting Agreement; each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus was filed with the Commission pursuant to the subparagraph of Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act specified in such opinion on the date specified therein; and no order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued, no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company and no proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or in connection with the offering is pending or, to the best knowledge of such counsel, threatened by the Commission.
 
2.             The Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus included in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and financial schedules and other financial data therein, as to which we express no opinion) comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act.
 
3.             The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
4.             The Shares to be issued and sold by the Company thereunder have been duly authorized, and when delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and the issuance of the Shares is not subject to any preemptive or similar rights.
 
5.             No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or governmental agency or body is required for the issue and sale of the Shares or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement, except such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Shares by the Underwriters.
 
6.             The statements set forth in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus and under the caption "Description of Common Stock We May Offer," insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Shares, and under the caption "Underwriting" insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate, complete and
 
fair in all material respects; provided, however, that this opinion shall not apply to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon or in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; and the statements in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the caption
"Certain United States Federal Income and Estate Tax Consequences to Non-U.S. Holders,"
insofar as such statements constitute a summary of the United States federal tax laws referred to therein, are accurate and fairly summarize in all material respects the United States federal tax laws referred to therein.
 
7.             The Company is not, and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Shares and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, will not be, an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act.
 
8.             The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and financial schedules and other financial data therein, as to which we express no opinion), when they were filed with the Commission complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder; and we have no reason to believe that any of such documents (other than the financial statements and financial schedules and other financial data therein, as to which we express no opinion), when they were so filed, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made when such documents were so filed, not misleading.
 
Although we do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus except for those referred to in paragraph 7 above, we have participated in the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Time of the Sale Information and the Prospectus, including review and discussion of the contents thereof, and based upon and subject to the foregoing and the other qualifications and limitations set forth herein, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: (i) any part of the Registration Statement, when such part became effective, (except for the financial statements and financial schedules and other financial data included therein, as to which we express no belief) contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, not misleading, (ii) the Registration Statement or the Prospectus (except for the financial statements and financial schedules and other financial data included therein, as to which we express no belief) on the date of the Underwriting Agreement contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, not misleading, (iii) the Time of Sale Information (except for the financial statements and financial schedules and other
 
financial data included therein, as to which we express no belief) at the Time of Sale contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or that the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto as of its date and the Closing Date contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
We express no opinion with respect to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York, The General and Business Corporation Law of the State of Missouri and the federal laws of the United States. Without limiting the foregoing sentence, we express no opinion concerning the securities or other laws of any jurisdiction outside the United States.
 
This opinion is furnished by us solely for your benefit in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement and may not, without our prior written consent, be relied on by any other person.
 
Annex A-2
 
1.             The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Missouri, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
 
2.             The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Registration Statement, Time of Information and the Prospectus and all of the issued shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
Sale
 
3.             Each of Morgan Adhesives Company, Curwood, Inc., and Milprint, Inc. has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; and each of Bemis Cayman Islands and Dixie Toga S.A. is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation; and, except as set forth in the Registration Statement, Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Morgan Adhesives Company, Curwood, Inc., Milprint, Inc. and Bemis Cayman Islands, are owned directly by the Company and all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Dixie Toga S.A. are owned directly by wholly owned direct subsidiaries of the Company, in each case free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities and claims.
 
4.             To the best of my knowledge and other than as set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the caption "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings", there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is the subject which would reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on the general affairs, management, consolidated financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries or on the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and, to the best of my knowledge, no such proceedings are threatened or contemplated by governmental authorities or threatened by others.
 
5.             The issue and sale of the Securities and the compliance by the Company with all of the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement and the consummation of the transactions therein contemplated will not conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument known to me
 
 
to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company is subject, except to the extent that any such breach, violation or default will not have a material adverse effect on the general affairs, management, consolidated financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, nor will such actions result in any violation of the provisions of the Restated Articles of Incorporation or Amended By-laws of the Company or any statute or any order, rule or regulation known to me of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties.
 
6.             The Company is not in violation of its Restated Articles of Incorporation or Amended By-laws and no subsidiary of the Company is in material violation of its Articles/Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, except to the extent that any such default will not have a material adverse effect on the general affairs, management, consolidated financial position, shareholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
7.             The statements set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the caption "Item 3  Legal Proceedings," insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate, complete and fair in all material respects.
 
8.             I have no reason to believe that the documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and other financial data and related schedules therein, as to which I express no opinion), when they were filed with the Commission, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made when such documents were so filed, not misleading.
 
Although I do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus except for those referred to in the opinion in paragraph 7 above,
I have participated in the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Time of the Sale Information and the Prospectus, including review and discussion of the contents thereof, and based upon and subject to the foregoing and the other qualifications and limitations set forth herein, nothing has come to my attention that causes me to believe that: (i) any part of the Registration Statement, when such part became effective, (except for the financial statements and financial schedules and other financial data included therein, as to which I express no belief) contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
 
statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (ii) the Registration Statement or the Prospectus (except for the financial statements and financial schedules and other financial data included therein, as to which I express no belief) on the date of the Underwriting Agreement contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, not misleading, (iii) the Time of Sale Information (except for the financial statements and financial schedules and other financial data included therein, as to which I express no belief) at the Time of Sale contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or that the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto as of its date and the Closing Date  contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
This opinion is solely for your benefit and may not be relied upon in any manner by any other person other than you without my prior consent.
 
Annex B
 
Time of Sale Information
 
1. Oral pricing terms: $ 26.00 per share
 
Exhibit A
 
MERRILL LYNCH & CO.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith                       Incorporated
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
as Representatives of the several
Underwriters to be named in the
within-mentioned Purchase Agreement
c/o Merrill Lynch & Co.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
4 World Financial Center
New York, New York  10080
 
Re:            Proposed Public Offering by Bemis Company, Inc.
 
Dear Sirs:
 
The undersigned, a stockholder and officer and/or director of Bemis Company, Inc., a Missouri corporation (the "Company"), understands that Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (the "Representatives") propose to enter into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with the Company providing for the public offering of shares (the "Securities") of the Company's common stock, par value $0.10 per share (the "Common Stock").  In recognition of the benefit that such an offering will confer upon the undersigned as a stockholder and an officer and/or director of the Company, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the undersigned agrees with each underwriter to be named in the Underwriting Agreement that, during a period beginning on the date hereof and ending 90 days after the date of the Underwriting Agreement, the undersigned will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, directly or indirectly, (i) offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer any shares of the Company's Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock, whether now owned or hereafter acquired by the undersigned or with respect to which the undersigned has or hereafter acquires the power of disposition, or file, or cause to be filed, any registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to any of the foregoing (collectively, the "Lock-Up Securities") or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in
 
whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Lock-Up Securities, whether any such swap or transaction is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or other securities, in cash or otherwise.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and subject to the conditions below, the undersigned may transfer the Lock-Up Securities without the prior written consent of the Representatives, provided that (1) the Representatives receive a signed lock-up agreement for the balance of the lockup period from each donee, trustee, distributee, or transferee, as the case may be, (2) any such transfer shall not involve a disposition for value, (3) such transfers are not required to be reported in any public report or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or otherwise (other than a filing on a Form 5 made after the expiration of the 90-day lock-up period) and (4) the undersigned does not otherwise voluntarily effect any public filing or report regarding such transfers during the 90-day lock-up period:
 
(i)
                                    
as a bona fide gift or gifts; or
 
(ii)
                                 
to any trust for the direct or indirect benefit of the undersigned or the immediate family of the undersigned (for purposes of this lock-up agreement, "immediate family" shall mean any relationship by blood, marriage or adoption, not more remote than first cousin).
 
Furthermore, the undersigned may sell shares of Common Stock of the Company (i) purchased by the undersigned on the open market following initial closing of the public offering contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement if and only if (a) such sales are not required to be reported in any public report or filing with the Securities Exchange Commission, or otherwise and (b) the undersigned does not otherwise voluntarily effect any public filing or report regarding such sales or (ii) in connection with the exercise of any stock options held by the undersigned that expire during the 90-day lock-up period, as may be extended pursuant hereto, to the extent necessary to fund the exercise price of such exercise and any withholding taxes resulting from such exercise.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if:
 
(1)
                                 
during the last 17 days of the 90-day lock-up period, the Company issues an earnings release or material news or a material event relating to the Company occurs; or
 
(2)
                                 
prior to the expiration of the 90-day lock-up period, the Company announces that it will release earnings results or becomes aware that material news or a material event will occur during the 16-day period beginning on the last day of the 90-day lock-up period,
 
the restrictions imposed by this lock-up agreement shall continue to apply until the expiration of the 18-day period beginning on the issuance of the earnings release or the occurrence of the material news or material event, as applicable, unless the Representatives waives, in writing, such extension.
 
The undersigned hereby acknowledges and agrees that written notice of any extension of the 90-day lock-up period pursuant to the previous paragraph will be delivered by the Representatives to the Company (in accordance with Section 15(b) of the Underwriting Agreement) and that any such notice properly delivered will be deemed to have been given to, and received by, the undersigned. The undersigned further agrees that, prior to engaging in any transaction or taking any other action that is subject to the terms of this lock-up agreement during the period from the date of this lock-up agreement to and including the 34th day following the expiration of the initial 90-day lock-up period, it will give notice thereof to the Company and will not consummate such transaction or take any such action unless it has received written confirmation from the Company that the 90-day lock-up period (as may have been extended pursuant to the previous paragraph) has expired.
 
[:  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the restrictions imposed by this lock-up agreement shall not apply to the distribution or transfer to trust beneficiaries of up to 50,000 shares of Common Stock held in a trust of which the undersigned has a 16.7 percent beneficial interest, provided that any shares of Common Stock beneficially held by and distributed to the undersigned from such trust shall be subject to the restrictions imposed by this lock-up agreement.]
If applicable, this letter agreement may contain the following provision
 
The lock-up arrangements contemplated hereby shall lapse and become null and void if (i) the closing of the public offering contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement has not occurred on or before August 31, 2009, (ii) after execution of the Underwriting Agreement, the Company or the Representatives provide notice advising the other of the determination not to proceed with the public offering contemplated thereby or (iii) following execution of the Underwriting Agreement, the Underwriting Agreement is terminated prior to the sale of any the Common Stock thereunder.
 
The undersigned also agrees and consents to the entry of stop transfer instructions with the Company's transfer agent and registrar against the transfer of the Lock-Up Securities except in compliance with the foregoing restrictions.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or to its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
CUSIP No. 081437AG0
 
Bemis Company, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Missouri (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO, or its registered assigns, the principal sum of $400,000,000 on August 1, 2014, and to pay interest thereon from July 27, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 in each year, commencing February 1, 2010, at the rate of 5.65% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 15 or July 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in St. Paul, Minnesota, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
 
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption prior to the Stated Maturity as described on the reverse hereof.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein and issued pursuant to the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1995 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly known as First Trust National Association), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be authenticated and delivered.  This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $400,000,000.  By the terms of the Indenture, additional Notes of this series and of other separate series, which may vary as to date, amount, Stated Maturity, interest rate or method of calculating the interest rate and in other respects as therein provided, may be issued in an unlimited principal amount.
 
The Company may, at its option, at any time and from time to time, redeem the Notes in whole or in part, on not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice mailed to the holders of the Notes. The Notes will be redeemable at a redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption (except that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the second Business Day immediately preceding such redemption date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the notes. "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by us.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than six such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Quotations obtained.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, BNP Paribas Securities Corp. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective successors and two other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury Dealers specified from time to time by us, except that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), we are required to designate as a substitute another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer as of 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
 
If, for any reason, (i) the Acquisition is not completed on or prior to March 31, 2010, or (ii) the Purchase Agreement is terminated on or prior to March 31, 2010, the Company shall redeem all of the Notes on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date at the Special Mandatory Redemption Price.  Notice of a special mandatory redemption shall be mailed, with a copy to the Trustee, promptly after the occurrence of the event triggering such redemption to each holder of Notes at its registered address.  If funds sufficient to pay the Special Mandatory Redemption Price of all of the Notes to be redeemed on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date are deposited with the Paying Agent under the Indenture on or before such Special Mandatory Redemption Date, on and after such Special Mandatory Redemption Date, the Notes shall cease to bear interest and, other than the right to receive the Special Mandatory Redemption Price, all rights under the Notes shall terminate.
 
"Acquisition" means our acquisition of the Alcan Packaging Food Americas business of Rio Tinto plc, a manufacturer of flexible packaging for food and consumer product markets with operations in North America, South America, and New Zealand as contemplated in the Purchase Agreement.
 
"Purchase Agreement" means the Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of July 5, 2009, among certain Rio Tinto Alcan Group companies, Alcan Holdings Switzerland AG, Alcan Corporation and Bemis Company, Inc.
 
"Special Mandatory Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of: (1) April 30, 2010, if the proposed acquisition has not been completed on or prior to March 31, 2010; or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the termination of the Purchase Agreement.
 
"Special Mandatory Redemption Price" means 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
 
In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor of an authorized denomination for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof, and, in the event of transfer or exchange, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor and for a like aggregate principal amount will be issued to the Holder, in the case of exchange, or the designated transferee or transferees, in the case of transfer.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1007(b) of the Indenture, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, or any of them, may incur, issue, assume or guarantee Debt secured by Liens without equally and ratably securing the Notes, provided, that at the time of such incurrence, issuance, assumption or guarantee, after giving effect thereto and to the retirement of any Debt which is concurrently being retired, the aggregate amount of all outstanding Debt secured by Liens (excluding Debt secured by liens permitted under Section 1007(a)(1)-(10) of the Indenture) which could not have been incurred, issued, assumed or guaranteed by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary without equally and ratably securing the Notes except for the provisions of this paragraph, plus the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions existing at such time, does not at such time exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1008(b) of the Indenture, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, or any of them, may enter into a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, provided, that at the time of such transaction, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions existing at such time which could not have been entered into except for the provisions of this paragraph, plus the aggregate amount of all outstanding Debt secured by Liens (excluding Debt secured by liens permitted under Section 1007(a)(1)-(10) of the Indenture), does not at such time exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company.
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above by giving irrevocable notice to the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture, each holder of the Notes shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of such holder's Note pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"), subject to the rights of holders of the Notes on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
 
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred with respect to this Note, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company will be required to send, by first class mail, a notice to each holder of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer. Such notice shall state, among other things, the purchase date, which must be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, other than as may be required by law (the "Change of Control Payment Date"). Such notice, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, shall state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (a) accept or cause a third party to accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (b) deposit or cause a third party to deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all the Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered, and (c) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased and that all conditions precedent to the Change of Control Offer and to the repurchase by the Company of Notes pursuant to the Change of Control Offer have been complied with.
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer with respect to the Notes if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by us and such third party purchases all the Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
The Company shall comply in all material respects with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached the Company's obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
For purposes of the foregoing discussion of a Change of Control Offer, the following definitions are applicable:
 
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following after the date of issuance of the Notes:
 
1.
                                      
the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries;
 
2.
                                      
the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, it being agreed that an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for whom shares are held under an employee stock ownership, employee retirement, employee savings or similar plan and whose shares are voted in accordance with the instructions of such employee shall not be a member of a "group" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) solely because such employee's shares are held by a trustee under said plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of the Company's Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of its outstanding Voting Stock;
 
3.
                                      
the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitutes, or is converted into or exchanged for, Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
 
4.
                                      
during any period of 24 consecutive calendar months, the majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors shall no longer be composed of individuals (a) who were members of the Company's Board of Directors on the first day of such period or (b) whose election or nomination to the Company's Board of Directors was approved by individuals referred to in clause (a) above constituting, at the time of such election or nomination, at least a majority of the Company's Board of Directors or, if directors are nominated by a committee of the Company's Board of Directors, constituting at the time of such nomination, at least a majority of such committee; or
 
5.
                                      
the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
 
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means, with respect to the Notes, the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "Trigger Period") commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change). If a Rating Agency is not providing a rating for the Notes at the commencement of any Trigger
Period, the Notes will be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade by such Rating Agency during that Trigger Period.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
 
"Investment Grade" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by us under the circumstances permitting us to select a replacement agency and in the manner for selecting a replacement agency, in each case as set forth in the definition of "Rating Agency."
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
 
"Rating Agency" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, we may appoint another "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act as a replacement for such Rating Agency; provided, that we shall give notice of such appointment to the Trustee.
 
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
 
"Voting Stock" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may (subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture) be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the Company's obligations in respect of (i) the entire indebtedness of this Note or (ii) certain restrictive covenants with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Notes of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected and, for certain purposes, without the consent of the Holders of any Notes at the time Outstanding.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Notes of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount of.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
The Company will not be obligated to redeem or purchase the Notes pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision.  Section 403 of the Indenture relating to satisfaction, discharge and defeasance shall apply to the Notes.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered in the Security Register as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
The Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 4.2
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or to its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
 
CUSIP No. 081437AF2
 
Bemis Company, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Missouri (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO, or its registered assigns, the principal sum of $400,000,000 on August 1, 2019, and to pay interest thereon from July 27, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 in each year, commencing February 1, 2010, at the rate of 6.80% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 15 or July 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in St. Paul, Minnesota, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
 
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption prior to the Stated Maturity as described on the reverse hereof.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein and issued pursuant to the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1995 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly known as First Trust National Association), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be authenticated and delivered.  This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $400,000,000.  By the terms of the Indenture, additional Notes of this series and of other separate series, which may vary as to date, amount, Stated Maturity, interest rate or method of calculating the interest rate and in other respects as therein provided, may be issued in an unlimited principal amount.
 
The Company may, at its option, at any time and from time to time, redeem the Notes in whole or in part, on not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice mailed to the holders of the Notes. The Notes will be redeemable at a redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption (except that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the second Business Day immediately preceding such redemption date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes. "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by us.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than six such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Quotations obtained.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, BNP Paribas Securities Corp. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective successors and two other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury Dealers specified from time to time by us, except that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), we are required to designate as a substitute another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer as of 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
 
If, for any reason, (i) the  Acquisition is not completed on or prior to March 31, 2010, or (ii) the Purchase Agreement is terminated on or prior to March 31, 2010, the Company shall redeem all of the Notes on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date at the Special Mandatory Redemption Price.  Notice of a special mandatory redemption shall be mailed, with a copy to the Trustee, promptly after the occurrence of the event triggering such redemption to each holder of Notes at its registered address.  If funds sufficient to pay the Special Mandatory Redemption Price of all of the Notes to be redeemed on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date are deposited with the Paying Agent under the Indenture on or before such Special Mandatory Redemption Date, on and after such Special Mandatory Redemption Date, the Notes shall cease to bear interest and, other than the right to receive the Special Mandatory Redemption Price, all rights under the Notes shall terminate.
 
"Acquisition" means our acquisition of the Alcan Packaging Food Americas business of Rio Tinto plc, a manufacturer of flexible packaging for food and consumer product markets with operations in North America, South America, and New Zealand as contemplated in the Purchase Agreement.
 
"Purchase Agreement" means the Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of July 5, 2009, among certain Rio Tinto Alcan Group companies, Alcan Holdings Switzerland AG, Alcan Corporation and Bemis Company, Inc.
 
"Special Mandatory Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of: (1) April 30, 2010, if the proposed acquisition has not been completed on or prior to March 31, 2010; or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the termination of the Purchase Agreement.
 
"Special Mandatory Redemption Price" means 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
 
In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor of an authorized denomination for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof, and, in the event of transfer or exchange, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor and for a like aggregate principal amount will be issued to the Holder, in the case of exchange, or the designated transferee or transferees, in the case of transfer.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1007(b) of the Indenture, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, or any of them, may incur, issue, assume or guarantee Debt secured by Liens without equally and ratably securing the Notes, provided, that at the time of such incurrence, issuance, assumption or guarantee, after giving effect thereto and to the retirement of any Debt which is concurrently being retired, the aggregate amount of all outstanding Debt secured by Liens (excluding Debt secured by liens permitted under Section 1007(a)(1)-(10) of the Indenture) which could not have been incurred, issued, assumed or guaranteed by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary without equally and ratably securing the Notes except for the provisions of this paragraph, plus the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions existing at such time, does not at such time exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1008(b) of the Indenture, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, or any of them, may enter into a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, provided, that at the time of such transaction, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions existing at such time which could not have been entered into except for the provisions of this paragraph, plus the aggregate amount of all outstanding Debt secured by Liens (excluding Debt secured by liens permitted under Section 1007(a)(1)-(10) of the Indenture), does not at such time exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company.
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above by giving irrevocable notice to the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture, each holder of the Notes shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of such holder's Note pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"), subject to the rights of holders of the Notes on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
 
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred with respect to this Note, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company will be required to send, by first class mail, a notice to each holder of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer. Such notice shall state, among other things, the purchase date, which must be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, other than as may be required by law (the "Change of Control Payment Date"). Such notice, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, shall state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (a) accept or cause a third party to accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (b) deposit or cause a third party to deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all the Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered, and (c) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased and that all conditions precedent to the Change of Control Offer and to the repurchase by the Company of Notes pursuant to the Change of Control Offer have been complied with.
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer with respect to the Notes if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by us and such third party purchases all the Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
The Company shall comply in all material respects with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached the Company's obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
 
For purposes of the foregoing discussion of a Change of Control Offer, the following definitions are applicable:
 
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following after the date of issuance of the Notes:
 
1.
                                      
the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries;
 
2.
                                      
the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, it being agreed that an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for whom shares are held under an employee stock ownership, employee retirement, employee savings or similar plan and whose shares are voted in accordance with the instructions of such employee shall not be a member of a "group" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) solely because such employee's shares are held by a trustee under said plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of the Company's Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of its outstanding Voting Stock;
 
3.
                                      
the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitutes, or is converted into or exchanged for, Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
 
4.
                                      
during any period of 24 consecutive calendar months, the majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors shall no longer be composed of individuals (a) who were members of the Company's Board of Directors on the first day of such period or (b) whose election or nomination to the Company's Board of Directors was approved by individuals referred to in clause (a) above constituting, at the time of such election or nomination, at least a majority of the Company's Board of Directors or, if directors are nominated by a committee of the Company's Board of Directors, constituting at the time of such nomination, at least a majority of such committee; or
 
5.
                                      
the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
 
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means, with respect to the Notes, the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "Trigger Period") commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change). If a Rating Agency is not providing a rating for the Notes at the commencement of any Trigger
 
Period, the Notes will be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade by such Rating Agency during that Trigger Period.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
 
"Investment Grade" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by us under the circumstances permitting us to select a replacement agency and in the manner for selecting a replacement agency, in each case as set forth in the definition of "Rating Agency."
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
 
"Rating Agency" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, we may appoint another "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act as a replacement for such Rating Agency; provided, that we shall give notice of such appointment to the Trustee.
 
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
 
"Voting Stock" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may (subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture) be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the Company's obligations in respect of (i) the entire indebtedness of this Note or (ii) certain restrictive covenants with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Notes of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected and, for certain purposes, without the consent of the Holders of any Notes at the time Outstanding.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Notes of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount of.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
The Company will not be obligated to redeem or purchase the Notes pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision.  Section 403 of the Indenture relating to satisfaction, discharge and defeasance shall apply to the Notes.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered in the Security Register as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
The Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 5.1
 
 
Bemis Company, Inc.
One Neenah Center, 4
th
 Floor
P.O. Box 669
Neenah, Wisconsin 54957-0669
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
I am Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Bemis Company, Inc., a Missouri corporation (the "Registrant"), and I have represented the Registrant in connection with the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (333-160681) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), relating to the offering from time to time of the securities referred to therein, and a Prospectus Supplement dated July 22, 2009 to the Prospectus dated July 20, 2009 (together, the "Prospectus") relating to the offer and sale by the Registrant under the Registration Statement of up to 8,855,000 shares of common stock of the Registrant (the "Shares").  The Shares are to be issued and sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement dated July 22, 2009 between the Registrant and the Underwriters named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement").
 
I, or attorneys of the Registrant, have examined the originals or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such corporate records and documents relating to the Registrant, including resolutions of the Board of Directors and a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Registrant (the "Resolutions") authorizing the issuance, offering and sale of the Shares, and have made such other inquiries of law and fact as I have deemed necessary or relevant as the basis of my opinion hereinafter expressed.
 
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications and limitations stated herein, upon payment and delivery in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement, I am of the opinion that the Shares will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.
 
I have relied, without investigation, upon the following assumptions: (i) natural persons acting on behalf of the Registrant have sufficient legal capacity to enter into and perform, on behalf of the Registrant, the transaction in question; (ii) each party to agreements or instruments relevant hereto (other than the Registrant) has satisfied those legal requirements that are applicable to it to the extent necessary to make such agreements or instruments enforceable against it; (iii) each party to agreements or instruments relevant hereto (other than the Registrant) has complied with all legal requirements pertaining to its status as such status relates to its rights to enforce such agreements or instruments against the Registrant; (iv) each document submitted to me for review is accurate and complete, each such document that is an original is authentic, each such document that is a copy conforms to an authentic original, and all signatures on each such document are genuine; (v) there has not been any mutual mistake of fact or misunderstanding, fraud, duress or undue influence; (vi) there are no agreements or understandings among the parties, written or oral, and there is no usage of trade or course of dealing among the parties that would, in either case, define, supplement or qualify the agreements or instruments relevant hereto; (vii) all statutes, judicial and administrative decisions, and rules and regulations of governmental agencies, constituting the law of the opining jurisdictions, are publicly available to lawyers practicing in such jurisdictions; and (viii) all relevant statutes, rules, regulations or agency actions are constitutional and valid unless a reported decision in the opining jurisdictions has specifically addressed but not resolved, or has established, its unconstitutionality or invalidity.
 
I express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of Wisconsin, as currently in effect, including the statutory provisions and all applicable provisions of the Wisconsin Constitution and any reported judicial decisions interpreting Wisconsin laws and the General and Business Corporation Law of the State of Missouri, as currently in effect.
 
I hereby consent to the use of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant filed with the Commission and thereby incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and to use my name under the heading "Validity of the Shares" in the Prospectus, without admitting that I am an "expert" within the meaning of the Act, or other rules and regulations of the Commission issued thereunder with respect to any part of the Registration Statement, including this exhibit.
 
 

Exhibit 5.2
 
 
Bemis Company, Inc.
One Neenah Center, 4
th
 Floor
P.O. Box 669
Neenah, Wisconsin 54957-0669
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
This opinion is furnished to you in connection with the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-160681) (the "Registration Statement") and the Prospectus Supplement, dated July 20, 2009 (the "Prospectus Supplement"), to the Prospectus, dated July 20, 2009, of Bemis Company, Inc., a Missouri corporation (the "Registrant"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), relating to the offer and sale by the Registrant under the Registration Statement of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2014 of the Registrant (the "2014 Notes") and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.80% Senior Notes due 2019 of the Registrant (the "2019 Notes" and the 2019 Notes together with the 2014 Notes, the "Notes").  The Notes are to be issued under the Indenture dated as of June 15, 1995 (the "Indenture") entered into by the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, and sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement dated July 20, 2009 between the Registrant and the Underwriters named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement").
 
We have relied, without investigation, upon the following assumptions: (i) natural persons acting on behalf of the Company have sufficient legal capacity to enter into and perform, on behalf of the Company, the transaction in question; (ii) each party to the Indenture (other than the Company) has satisfied those legal requirements that are applicable to it to the extent necessary to make the Indenture valid and binding and enforceable against it; (iii) each party having rights under the Indenture (other than the Company) has complied with all legal requirements pertaining to its status as such status relates to its rights to enforce the Indenture against the Company; (iv) each document submitted to us for review is accurate and complete, each such document that is an original is authentic, each such document that is a copy conforms to an authentic original, and all signatures on each such document are genuine; (v) there has not been any mutual mistake of fact or misunderstanding, fraud, duress or undue influence; (vi) the conduct of the parties to the Transaction Documents has complied with any requirement of good faith, fair dealing and conscionability; (vii) there are no agreements or understandings among the parties, written or oral, and there is no usage of trade or course of prior dealing among the parties that would, in either case, define, supplement or qualify the terms of any of the Transaction Documents; (viii) any provision for a make-whole or other premium or similar payment upon a mandatory redemption would not be determined by a court to constitute an unenforceable penalty; (ix) all statutes, judicial and administrative decisions, and rules and regulations of governmental agencies, constituting the law of the State of New York, the State of Missouri and the United States are publicly available to lawyers practicing in such jurisdictions; and (x) all relevant statutes, rules, regulations or agency actions are constitutional and valid unless a reported decision in the applicable jurisdiction has specifically addressed but not resolved, or has established, its unconstitutionality or invalidity.
 
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications and limitations stated herein, we are of the opinion that the Notes constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Registrant entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
 
The opinion set forth above is subject to the effects of (a) bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally, (b) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), (c) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (d) limitations by any governmental authority that limit, delay or prohibit the making of payments outside the United States, and (e) generally applicable laws that (i) provide for the enforcement of oral waivers or modifications where a material change of position in reliance thereon has occurred or
 
provide that a course of performance may operate as a waiver, (ii) limit the availability of a remedy under certain circumstances where another remedy has been elected, (iii) limit the enforceability of provisions releasing, exculpating or exempting a party from, or requiring indemnification of a party for, liability for its own action or inaction, to the extent the action or inaction involves gross negligence, recklessness, willful misconduct or unlawful conduct, (iv) may, where less than all of a contract may be unenforceable, limit the enforceability of the balance of the contract to circumstances in which the unenforceable portion is not an essential part of the agreed exchange, (v) govern and afford judicial discretion regarding the determination of damages and entitlement to attorneys' fees and other costs; (vi) may permit a party who has materially failed to render or offer performance required by a contract to cure that failure unless either permitting a cure would unreasonably hinder the aggrieved party from making substitute arrangements for performance or it is important under the circumstances to the aggrieved party that performance occur by the date stated in the contract; (vii) may limit the enforceability of provisions providing for compounded interest, imposing increased interest rates or late payment charges upon delinquency in payment or default or providing for liquidated damages or for premiums upon acceleration, and (viii) limit the waiver of rights under usury laws. We express no opinion as to whether, or the extent to which, the laws of any particular jurisdiction apply to the subject matter hereof, including, without limitation, the enforceability of the governing law provision contained in the Notes and the Indenture.
 
We express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the state of New York, as currently in effect, including the statutory provisions and all applicable provisions of the New York Constitution and any reported judicial decisions interpreting New York laws, and the General and Business Corporation Law of the State of Missouri, as currently in effect.
 
We hereby consent to the use of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant filed with the Commission and thereby incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and to use our name under the heading "Validity of the Notes" in the Prospectus, without admitting that we are an "expert" within the meaning of the Act, or other rules and regulations of the Commission issued thereunder with respect to any part of the Registration Statement, including this exhibit.  In giving such consent, we do not thereby concede that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
 


