FILE:BMS/BMS-8K-20100615101231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
                                            
Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On June 11, 2010, Bemis Company, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Agreement") with Exopack Holding Corp. ("Exopack"), which is an affiliated portfolio company of Sun Capital Partners, Inc. ("Sun Capital").  Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company agreed to sell (the "Sale") to Exopack certain assets and liabilities relating to the portion of the food packaging business, including facilities located in Menasha, Wisconsin and Tulsa, Oklahoma (the "Business"), which the Company was required to divest pursuant to the Proposed Final Judgment filed by the U.S. Department of Justice on February 25, 2010 against the Company, Rio Tinto plc, Alcan Corporation and the Hold Separate Stipulation and Order entered by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against such parties on February 25, 2010 (collectively, the "Consent Decree").
 
The purchase price for the Sale is $81.15 million payable in cash at closing, subject to certain post-closing adjustments.  The closing of the Sale has not occurred and is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by the U.S. Department of Justice.  The parties made customary representations, warranties and covenants to each other in the Agreement and each party has certain indemnification obligations to the other under the Agreement.  If the closing occurs, consistent with the Consent Decree, the Company has agreed for a period of time not to manufacture, sell or solicit customers for the sale of certain flexible packaging products or solicit the employees of the Business.
 
Item 7.01
                                            
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On June 14, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the entry into the Agreement.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99(a) and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Item 7.01 and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and will not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of such section, nor will such information or exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as may be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99(a)
                     
Press Release dated June 14, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Index to Exhibits
 

Exhibit 99(a)
 
Press Release dated June 14, 2010
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
NEENAH, WI and SPARTANBURG, SC 
June 14, 2010  Bemis Company, Inc. (NYSE: BMS), a supplier of flexible packaging materials, today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to sell the Company's Menasha, Wisconsin, and Catoosa (Tulsa), Oklahoma, facilities to Exopack Holding Corp. ("Exopack"), an affiliate of private investment firm Sun Capital Partners, Inc.  The purchase price for the transaction is approximately $81 million payable in cash at closing, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Terms of the transaction, which include production equipment and intellectual property, were not disclosed.
 
The two facilities focus on the production of plastic packaging for retail natural cheese and shrink bags for fresh red meat.
 
Under the terms of an order signed by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on February 25, 2010, Bemis was required to divest the two facilities, which were part of its acquisition of Alcan Packaging Food Americas. The sale of the facilities is subject to regulatory approval.
 
Headquartered in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Exopack is a full-service paper and plastic flexible packaging solutions manufacturer that specializes in substrate development, film extrusion, printing, lamination, and converting of flexible packaging products.  In addition, its coatings division is known for advanced film coating technologies. Products manufactured by Exopack include microwave packaging, printed collation shrink films, laminated FFS materials, specialty bags and pouches, heavy duty shipping sacks, medical components and optical and electronic films.
 
"This purchase of the Menasha and Tulsa facilities reflects our commitment to our customers and other key stakeholders that we will continue to expand our capabilities and product offerings and strengthen the presence of the Exopack brand in the global marketplace," said Jack Knott, Exopack Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We are pleased to welcome our newest Exopack employees and look forward to integrating these new facilities into our business."
 
About Bemis Company, Inc.
 
Bemis Company is a major supplier of flexible packaging and pressure sensitive materials used by leading food, consumer products, healthcare, and other companies worldwide.  Founded in 1858, the Company is included in the S&P 500 index of stocks and reported pro forma 2009 net sales, giving effect to the Alcan Packaging
 
 
Food Americas acquisition, of $4.8 billion.  The Company's flexible packaging business has a strong technical base in polymer chemistry, film extrusion, coating and laminating, printing, and converting.  Headquartered in Neenah, Wisconsin, Bemis employs over 20,000 individuals in 84 manufacturing facilities in 13 countries around the world.  More information about the Company is available at our website, www.bemis.com.
 
About Exopack Holding Corp.
Currently managing seventeen production facilities strategically positioned across North America and the United Kingdom, as well as a global network of alliance partners, Exopack is an established leader in the development, manufacture, and sourcing of paper and plastic flexible solutions for various consumer and industrial end-use markets.  Exopack Holding Corp. is an affiliate company of Sun Capital Partners, Inc.  For more information, please visit www.exopack.com or call (877) 447-3539.
 
About Sun Capital Partners, Inc.
Sun Capital Partners, Inc. is a leading private investment firm focused on leveraged buyouts, equity, debt, and other investments in companies that can benefit from its inhouse operating professionals and experience.  Sun Capital affiliates have invested in more than 225 companies worldwide with combined sales in excess of $40 billion since Sun Capital's inception in 1995.  Sun Capital has offices in Boca Raton, Los Angeles, and New York, as well as affiliates with offices in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Luxembourg, Shanghai and Shenzhen. For more information, please visit www.SunCapPart.com.
 
For further information, contact:
 
Chris Swalm
Corporate Marketing Manager
Exopack Holding Corp.
(864) 596-7140
chris.swalm@exopack.com
 
Kristine Pavletich
Public Relations Specialist
Bemis Company, Inc.
(920) 527-5159
kapavletich@bemis.com
 
Alex Stanton
Stanton Public Relations & Marketing
(212) 780-0701 - direct
astanton@stantonPRM.com
 
 


