FILE:BMS/BMS-8K-20110428084756.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On April 28, 2011, Bemis Company, Inc. issued a press release containing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report.  Earnings guidance for the balance of 2011 for Bemis Company, Inc. is included with this press release and will be available during the regular earnings release conference call scheduled for Thursday, April 28, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. (ET). Individuals may listen to the call on the Internet at www.bemis.com under "Investor Relations."  Listeners are urged to check the website ahead of time to ensure their computers are configured for the audio stream.  Instructions for obtaining the required, free, downloadable software are available in a pre-event system test on the site.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report contains certain non-GAAP financial measures, including:
 
        Segment operating profit as adjusted
 
        Segment operating profit as adjusted as a percentage of net sales
 
        Diluted earnings per share as adjusted
 
Each of these measures excludes from the most directly comparable GAAP measures the impact of certain items.  Management believes these adjusted measures are useful to investors because they assist an investor's understanding of the impact of these items on the comparability of the Company's operations from year-to-year.  Excluding the impact of these items also enables investors to compare our underlying operational results and trends before other charges and income items that are considered by management as not related to the Company's core operations.  Management uses these adjusted measures to monitor and evaluate operating performance and also for internal planning purposes.  These measures are subject to certain limitations because they do not reflect all charges, income, or other items that were actually recognized by the Company in accordance with GAAP.  As a result, investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial performance measures presented in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, these adjusted measures may not be calculated in the same manner as adjusted measures presented by other companies.
 
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d).
                             
The April 28, 2011, Bemis Company, Inc. press release for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report.
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
 
PRESS RELEASE DATED April 28, 2011
 
BEMIS COMPANY, INC.
One Neenah Center, 4
th
 Floor
P.O. Box 669
Neenah, Wisconsin 54957-0669
 
For additional information please contact:
Melanie E. R. Miller
Vice President, Investor Relations
and Treasurer
(920) 527-5045
 
Kristine Pavletich
Public Relations Specialist
(920)527-5159
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
BEMIS COMPANY REPORTS 2011 FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
 
NEENAH, WISCONSIN, April 28, 2011
 Bemis Company, Inc. (NYSE-BMS) today reported its 2011 first quarter results:
 
Highlights of the first quarter 2011:
 
                 
First quarter net sales increased to a record $1.3 billion.
                 
Flexible packaging segment operating profit was negatively impacted by higher raw material costs in advance of selling price adjustments.
                 
Diluted earnings for the first quarter was $0.47 per share as compared to management's first quarter 2011 guidance of $0.50 to $0.55 per share.
                 
Bemis' quarterly dividend increased by 4.3 percent, from $0.23 per share to $0.24 per share.
                 
Repurchases of Bemis common stock during the quarter totaled 1.7 million shares.
                 
Management established earnings guidance for the second quarter of 2011 at $0.48 to $0.54 per share, and total year 2011 earnings guidance was reduced to $2.15 to $2.30 per share to reflect the expected impact of raw material cost changes on the first half of the year.
 
"Increasing raw material costs have created a challenging environment for our flexible packaging business," said Henry Theisen, Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer.  "I am pleased to report that we are growing sales volumes in our targeted product categories, and we are on track with our plan to optimize our manufacturing platforms by concentrating the production of certain products in the most profitable location for such processes.  Unfortunately, raw material cost increases for specialty resins were more dramatic than we had anticipated.  In addition, the price adjustment formulas in the customer agreements that we acquired with the Food Americas business delay selling price increases beyond our normal policy timeframes.  This decreased margins during the first quarter and reduced our profit expectations for the second quarter.  By the third quarter of 2011, we expect operating profit to begin to improve as most selling prices should be adjusted to reflect the impact of the raw material cost increases earlier in the year."
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
Total Bemis net sales were $1.3 billion for the first quarter of 2011, a 30 percent increase from $1.0 billion for the same period of 2010.  The March 1, 2010 acquisition of Alcan Packaging Food Americas business increased first quarter net sales by an estimated 19 percent.  The remaining sales growth included a 2 percent increase from currency effects.
 
Diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2011 were $0.47 compared to diluted earnings from continuing operations of $0.27 per share reported in the same quarter of 2010.  Excluding the effect of acquisition-related charges and pre-acquisition financing impacts, as detailed in the attached schedule, "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Data," diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, as adjusted, would have been $0.48 for the first quarter of 2010.  Performance for the first quarter of 2011 was negatively impacted by increases in the cost of specialty resin raw materials which began during the fourth quarter of 2010 and are expected to continue through the second quarter of 2011.
 
FLEXIBLE PACKAGING BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
Bemis' flexible packaging business segment reported net sales of $1.2 billion.  This represents a 34 percent increase compared to net sales of $881.4 million for the first quarter of 2010.  Bemis estimates that the acquisition of the Food Americas business on March 1, 2010 resulted in an increase in net sales of approximately 22 percent during the quarter.  Currency effects increased net sales by 3 percent.  The remaining sales growth reflects higher selling prices coupled with increased unit sales volume and improved sales mix.  Segment operating profit for the first quarter of 2011 was $116.3 million, or 9.9 percent of net sales,
 
compared to $93.9 million, or 10.7 percent of net sales, for the same period of 2010.  During the first quarter of 2010, adjustments related to the March 2010 Food Americas acquisition negatively impacted results.  Segment operating profit, as adjusted, for the first quarter would have been $105.9 million, or 12.0 percent of net sales, in 2010.  (See attached schedule: "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Data.")  The effect of currency translation increased operating profit in the first quarter of 2011 by $2.0 million compared to the same quarter of 2010.  Dramatic raw material cost increases that began during the fourth quarter of 2010 have negatively impacted operating profit for the first quarter of 2011.
 
Commenting on the flexible packaging segment results, Theisen said, "This quarter we experienced encouraging sales growth from new business and improved sales mix, while raw material cost increases reduced operating profit in advance of selling price adjustments.  Healthy unit volume growth in value-added packaging for markets such as meat and cheese, dry foods, and specialty food products is building momentum for improved sales mix in 2011.  At the same time, many of our customers are expressing caution about future order volumes.  Food price inflation has caused retail consumer prices to increase, which may result in lower consumer demand for some packaged food products.  As a result, a higher percentage of our unit sales growth is expected to come from new business in the first half of 2011.  In Europe, unit volumes have stabilized but competition remains strong in this environment of higher raw material costs.  Our Brazilian operations continue to perform well, but volume growth has slowed as the strong Brazilian currency has reduced export demand for our customers' products.
 
"Both specialty and commodity raw material costs have been increasing steadily since the fourth quarter of 2010.  Recently, more dramatic raw material cost increases have occurred, magnifying the importance of the speed at which selling prices can be adjusted.  As we noted last quarter, the price adjustment formulas in our customer agreements allow for selling price adjustments on a fixed time schedule.  The customer agreements we inherited in the 2010 Food Americas acquisition generally included longer selling price adjustment timeframes which, when combined with typical Bemis customer agreements, have increased our average selling price adjustment period.  We expect this to delay our ability to adjust for some of the recent, dramatic cost increases until the third quarter of this year."
 
PRESSURE SENSITIVE MATERIALS BUSINESS SEGMENT
 
Net sales from the pressure sensitive materials business segment for the first quarter of 2011 were $145.0 million, a 3.3 percent increase compared to $140.3 million in the first quarter of 2010.  For the first quarter of 2011, the benefits of higher selling prices in line with raw material cost increases and prudent cost management led to operating profit of $9.9 million, or 6.8 percent of net sales, compared to operating profit for first quarter of 2010 of $6.6 million, or 4.7 percent of net sales.  Currency effects were insignificant to net sales and operating profit for the quarter.
 
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
 
For the first quarter of 2011, other operating income and expense included $5.5 million of fiscal incentive income, an increase of $1.8 million compared to $3.7 million for the first quarter of 2010.  Fiscal incentives are associated with net sales and manufacturing activities in certain South American operations and are included in flexible packaging segment operating profit.  Other operating income and expense for the first quarter of 2010 also included $12.7 million of professional fees associated with the acquisition of the Food Americas business.
 
OTHER NON-OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
 
For the first quarter of 2011, other non-operating income and expense included net foreign exchange losses of $2.0 million compared to net foreign exchange gains in the first quarter of 2010 of $2.5 million, primarily reflecting the net impact of currency fluctuations on financing arrangements for the foreign operations acquired in the 2010 Food Americas acquisition.
 
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND CASH FLOW
 
Net debt to total capitalization was 41 percent at March 31, 2011, compared to 39 percent at December 31, 2010.  Total debt as of March 31, 2011 was $1.4 billion, an increase of $134 million from the balance of $1.3 billion at December 31, 2010.  Higher cost raw materials increased inventory levels and higher selling prices increased accounts receivable during the first quarter.  The increase in outstanding debt reflects the use of cash to support these higher levels of working capital, as well as open market purchases of 1.7 million shares of Bemis common stock.  The remaining share repurchase authorization as of March 31, 2011 was 7.9 million shares.
 
2011 EARNINGS OUTLOOK
 
Commenting on the outlook for the rest of the year, Theisen said, "While we anticipated increasing raw material costs during the first half of 2011, recent political events and supply shortages have increased the speed and magnitude of specialty resin cost increases.  As a result, flexible packaging operating profits during the second quarter of 2011 are expected to be more negatively impacted than we originally anticipated.  Operating results for the second half of the year are expected to improve as most selling prices will have been adjusted to reflect these raw material cost increases, and we expect to benefit from production efficiencies resulting from optimization initiatives."
 
Management expects adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of 2011 to be in the range of $0.48 to $0.54.  In light of the anticipated results for the first half of 2011 and the assumption that raw material costs will stabilize and not decrease during this year, management expects adjusted diluted earnings per share for the full year 2011 to be in the range of $2.15 to $2.30 per share.  Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $150 million for the full year 2011.
 
PRESENTATION OF NON-GAAP INFORMATION
 
This press release refers to non-GAAP financial measures: adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating profit as a percentage of net sales, and adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.  These non-GAAP financial measures adjust for factors that are unusual or unpredictable.  These measures exclude the impact of certain amounts related to acquisition related
financing costs, acquisition related professional and legal fees, and purchase accounting adjustments for inventory and order backlog.  This adjusted information should not be construed as an alternative to results determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).  It is provided solely to assist in an investor's understanding of the impact of these items on the comparability of the Company's operations.
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
Statements in this release that are not historical, including statements relating to the expected future performance of the Company, are considered "forward-looking" and are presented pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such content is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to future changes in cost or availability of raw materials, our ability to adjust selling prices, consumer buying patterns, changes in customer order patterns, the results of competitive bid processes, costs associated with the pursuit of business combinations, a failure in our information technology infrastructure or applications, foreign currency fluctuations, changes in working capital requirements, changes in government regulations, and the availability and related cost of financing from banks and capital markets.  Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or those projected in any such forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors which are detailed in the Company's regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
INVESTOR CONFERENCE CALL
 
Bemis Company, Inc. will webcast an investor telephone conference regarding its first quarter 2011 financial results this morning at 10 a.m., Eastern Time.  Individuals may listen to the call on the Internet at www.bemis.com under "Investor Relations."  Listeners are urged to check the website ahead of time to ensure their computers are configured for the audio stream.  Instructions for obtaining the required, free, downloadable software are available in a pre-event system test on the site.
 
ABOUT BEMIS COMPANY, INC.
 
Bemis Company is a major supplier of flexible packaging and pressure sensitive materials used by leading food, consumer products, healthcare, and other companies worldwide.  Founded in 1858, the Company is included in the S&P 500 index of stocks and reported 2010 net sales of $4.8 billion.  The Company's flexible packaging business has a strong technical base in polymer chemistry, film extrusion, coating and laminating, printing, and converting.  Headquartered in Neenah, Wisconsin, Bemis employs nearly 20,000 individuals worldwide.  More information about the Company is available at our website, www.bemis.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
         
Expenses related to the purchase accounting impact of the fair value write-up of inventory and a charge for the fair value of the customer order backlog, both in the Alcan Packaging Food Americas acquisition.
(2)
         
Transaction related costs are related primarily to our acquisition of Alcan Food Packaging Americas. These costs consist of legal, accounting, and other professional fees.
(3)
         
Impact from the July 2009 financing of the Alcan Packaging Food Americas acquisition, which included the issuance of 8.175 million shares and $800 million of public debt.  The EPS impact includes the effect of the interest expense on the debt and the dilutive effect of the newly issued shares until the acquisition was completed on March 1, 2010.
 


