FILE:BMS/BMS-8K-20111004161305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01
              
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 4, 2011, Bemis Company, Inc. (the "Company") completed the sale of its $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.50% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "Notes").  The Notes were issued in the form filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and are governed by the terms of an Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1995 (the "Indenture"), entered into with U.S. Bank National Association (formerly known as First Trust National Association), as trustee (the "Trustee").  The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank prior to all of the Company's subordinated indebtedness and on an equal basis with all of the Company's other senior unsecured indebtedness.  Interest on the Notes accrues at a rate of 4.50% per annum, and is payable semi-annually in arrears on each April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15, 2012.  The Notes will mature on October 15, 2021.
 
The Company may, at its option, at any time and from time to time, redeem the Notes in whole or in part, on not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice mailed to the holders of the Notes.  At any time prior to the date that is three months prior to the maturity date of the Notes, the Notes will be redeemable at a redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption (except that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable U.S. treasury rate plus 40 basis points.  At any time on or after the date that is three months prior to the maturity date of the Notes, the Company may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the Form of Note due 2021 filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K) with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above, each holder of the Notes has the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of such holder's Notes (a "Change of Control Offer"), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase, subject to certain other rights of holders of the Notes.  The Company is not required to make a Change of Control Offer with respect to the Notes if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all the Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
The Indenture contains customary events of default.  If an event of default with respect to the Notes has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes may declare the principal of all the Notes to be due and payable immediately.
 
The description of the Notes set forth above is qualified by reference to the Form of Note due 2021 filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.03
              
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 8.01
              
Other Events.
 
The Notes are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-160681) that the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 20, 2009.  The Company is filing certain exhibits as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K for purposes of such Registration Statement. See "Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits."
 
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits
 
4.1
          
Form of 4.50% Note due 2021.
 
5.1
          
Opinion of Foley & Lardner LLP.
 
23.1
        
Consent of Foley & Lardner LLP (contained in Exhibit 5.1 hereto).
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or to its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
 
CUSIP No. 081437AH8
 
Bemis Company, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Missouri (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO, or its registered assigns, the principal sum of $400,000,000 on October 15, 2021, and to pay interest thereon from October 4, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year, commencing April 15, 2012, at the rate of 4.50% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the April 1 or October 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in St. Paul, Minnesota, in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
 
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption prior to the Stated Maturity as described on the reverse hereof.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein and issued pursuant to the within mentioned Indenture.
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1995 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly known as First Trust National Association), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $400,000,000. By the terms of the Indenture, additional Notes of this series and of other separate series, which may vary as to date, amount, Stated Maturity, interest rate or method of calculating the interest rate and in other respects as therein provided, may be issued in an unlimited principal amount.
 
The Company may, at its option, at any time and from time to time, redeem the Notes in whole or in part, on not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice mailed to the holders of the Notes. At any time prior to the date that is three months prior to the maturity date of the notes, the Notes will be redeemable at a redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption (except that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 40 basis points. At any time on or after the date that is three months prior to the maturity date of the notes, the notes will be redeemable at a redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the second Business Day immediately preceding such redemption date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the notes. "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by us.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than six such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Quotations obtained.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith Incorporated, or their respective successors, one primary U.S. government securities dealer located in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer") selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and two other nationally recognized investment banking firms that are Primary Treasury Dealers specified from time to time by us, except that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, we are required to designate as a substitute another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealers as of 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
 
In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor of an authorized denomination for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof, and, in the event of transfer or exchange, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor and for a like aggregate principal amount will be issued to the Holder, in the case of exchange, or the designated transferee or transferees, in the case of transfer.
Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 1007(b) of the Indenture, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, or any of them, may incur, issue, assume or guarantee Debt secured by Liens without equally and ratably securing the Notes, provided, that at the time of such incurrence, issuance, assumption or guarantee, after giving effect thereto and to the retirement of any Debt which is concurrently being retired, the aggregate amount of all outstanding Debt secured by Liens (excluding Debt secured by liens permitted under Section 1007(a)(1)-(10) of the Indenture) which could not have been incurred, issued, assumed or guaranteed by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary without equally and ratably securing the Notes except for the provisions of this paragraph, plus the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions existing at such time, does not at such time exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1008(b) of the Indenture, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, or any of them, may enter into a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, provided, that at the time of such transaction, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions existing at such time which could not have been entered into except for the provisions of this paragraph, plus the aggregate amount of all outstanding Debt secured by Liens (excluding Debt secured by liens permitted under Section 1007(a)(1)-(10) of the Indenture), does not at such time exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company.
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above by giving irrevocable notice to the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture, each holder of the Notes shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of such holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"), subject to the rights of holders of Notes on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
 
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred with respect to the Notes, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each holder of Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer. Such notice shall state, among other things, the purchase date, which must be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, other than as may be required by law (the "Change of Control Payment Date"). Such notice, if mailed prior to the date of
consummation of the Change of Control, shall state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful, (a) accept or cause a third party to accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (b) deposit or cause a third party to deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased and that all conditions precedent to the Change of Control Offer and to the repurchase by the Company of Notes pursuant to the Change of Control Offer have been complied with.
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer with respect to the Notes if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by us and such third party purchases all the Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
The Company shall comply in all material respects with the requirements of Rule 14e-l under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached the Company's obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the notes by virtue of any such conflict.
 
For purposes of the foregoing discussion of a Change of Control Offer, the following definitions are applicable:
 
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following after the date of issuance of the Notes:
 
1.
                                      
the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used
in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries;
 
2.
                                      
the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, it being agreed that an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for whom shares are held under an employee stock ownership, employee retirement, employee savings or similar plan and whose shares are voted in accordance with the instructions of such employee shall not be a member of a "group" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) solely because such employee's shares are held by a trustee under said plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of the Company's Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of its outstanding Voting Stock;
 
3.
                                      
the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitutes, or is converted into or exchanged for, Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
 
4.
                                      
during any period of 24 consecutive calendar months, the majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors shall no longer be composed of individuals (a) who were members of the Company's Board of Directors on the first day of such period or (b) whose election or nomination to the Company's Board of Directors was approved by individuals referred to in clause (a) above constituting, at the time of such election or nomination, at least a majority of the Company's Board of Directors or, if directors are nominated by a committee of the Company's Board of Directors, constituting at the time of such nomination, at least a majority of such committee; or
 
5.
                                      
the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
 
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means, with respect to the Notes, the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "Trigger Period") commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such
Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change). If a Rating Agency is not providing a rating for the Notes at the commencement of any Trigger Period, the Notes will be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade by such Rating Agency during that Trigger Period.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
 
"Investment Grade" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by us under the circumstances permitting us to select a replacement agency and in the manner for selecting a replacement agency, in each case as set forth in the definition of "Rating Agency."
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
 
"Rating Agency" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, we may appoint another "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3- 1 (c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act as a replacement for such Rating Agency; provided, that we shall give notice of such appointment to the Trustee.
 
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
 
"Voting Stock" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Notes of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may (subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture) be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the Company's obligations in respect of (i) the entire indebtedness of this Note or (ii) 
certain restrictive covenants with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and
the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Notes of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected and, for certain purposes, without the consent of the Holders of any Notes at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Notes of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Notes of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount of. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
The Company will not be obligated to redeem or purchase the Notes pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision. Section 403 of the Indenture relating to satisfaction, discharge and defeasance shall apply to the Notes.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered in the Security Register as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
The Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 5.1
 
 
 
Bemis Company, Inc.
One Neenah Center, 4
th
 Floor
P.O. Box 669
Neenah, Wisconsin 54957-0669
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as counsel for Bemis Company, Inc., a Missouri corporation (the "Company"), in connection with a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-160681) (the "Registration Statement"), including the prospectus constituting a part thereof, dated July 20, 2009, and the prospectus supplement, dated September 27, 2011 (collectively, the "Prospectus"), filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), relating to the issuance and sale by the Company of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.50% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "Securities") in the manner set forth in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.  The Securities have been issued under an Indenture, dated as of June 15, 1995 (the "Indenture"), among the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly known as First Trust National Association), as Trustee (the "Trustee") and the related Certificate of Designated Officers Establishing Terms of Securities Under Open-End Indenture, dated October 4, 2011 (the "Certificate of Designated Officers").
 
As counsel to the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities, we have examined:  (i) the Registration Statement, including the Prospectus and the exhibits (including those incorporated by reference) constituting a part of the Registration Statement; (ii) the Indenture and the Certificate of Designated Officers; (iii) the Securities; and (iv) such other proceedings, documents and records as we have deemed necessary to enable us to render the opinions set forth below.
 
In our examination of the above-referenced documents, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents, certificates and instruments submitted to us as originals and the conformity with the originals of all documents submitted to us as copies.
 
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and the other matters set forth herein, assuming that (i) the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by, and represents the valid and binding obligations of, the Trustee and (ii) the Securities have been duly authenticated by the Trustee, and having regard for such legal considerations as we deem relevant, we are of the opinion that the Securities, when delivered by the Company in the manner and for the consideration contemplated by the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, will be legally issued and valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their
 
terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
We hereby consent to the deemed incorporation by reference of this opinion into the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and to the references to our firm therein.  In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are "experts" within the meaning of Section 11 of the Securities Act or within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 


