FILE:BMS/BMS-8K-20121025074703.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report  - 
October 25, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
BEMIS COMPANY, INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Commission File Number
1-5277
 
 
One Neenah Center, 4
th
 Floor, P.O. Box 669, Neenah, Wisconsin 54957-0669
(Address of principal executive offices)
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: 
(920) 727-4100
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On
October 25, 2012
, Bemis Company, Inc. issued a press release containing its financial results for the
third
quarter ended
September 30, 2012
, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report.  Earnings guidance for the balance of 2012 for Bemis Company, Inc. is included with this press release and will be available during the regular earnings release conference call scheduled for Thursday,
October 25, 2012
, at 10:00 a.m. (ET). Individuals may listen to the call on the Internet at www.bemis.com under Investor Relations.  Listeners are urged to check the website ahead of time to ensure their computers are configured for the audio stream.  Instructions for obtaining the required, free, downloadable software are available in a pre-event system test on the site.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
The press release furnished as an exhibit to this report contains certain non-GAAP financial measures, including:
 
Segment operating profit as adjusted
Segment operating profit as adjusted as a percentage of net sales
Diluted earnings per share as adjusted
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA
Each of these measures excludes from the most directly comparable GAAP measures the impact of certain items.  Management believes these adjusted measures are useful to investors because they assist an investors understanding of the impact of these items on the comparability of the Companys operations from year-to-year.  Excluding the impact of these items also enables investors to compare our underlying operational results and trends before other charges and income items that are considered by management as not related to the Companys core operations.  Management uses these adjusted measures to monitor and evaluate operating performance and also for internal planning purposes.  These measures are subject to certain limitations because they do not reflect all charges, income, or other items that were actually recognized by the Company in accordance with GAAP.  As a result, investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial performance measures presented in accordance with GAAP.  In addition, these adjusted measures may not be calculated in the same manner as adjusted measures presented by other companies.
 
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d).
                             
The
October 25, 2012
, Bemis Company, Inc. press release for the
third
quarter ended
September 30, 2012
, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report.
2
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3

Exhibit 99
BEMIS COMPANY, INC.                
One Neenah Center, 4
th
Floor
P.O. Box 669
Neenah, Wisconsin 54957-0669
For additional information please contact:
Melanie E. R. Miller
Vice President, Investor Relations
and Treasurer
(920)527-5045
Kristine Pavletich
Public Relations Specialist
(920)527-5159
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BEMIS COMPANY REPORTS RECORD RESULTS FOR THIRD QUARTER 2012
NEENAH, WISCONSIN, October 25, 2012
- Bemis Company, Inc. (NYSE:BMS) today reported diluted earnings of $0.45 per share for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012. Diluted earnings per share would have been $0.60 for the third quarter of 2012, excluding the effect of facility consolidation and acquisition-related charges detailed in the attached schedule, Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Data.
Highlights of the third quarter 2012:
I am pleased to report solid performance during the third quarter, said Henry Theisen, Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer. We are benefiting from some of this year's facility consolidation activities as well as increased sales of value-added products. This sales mix improvement was partially offset by generally lower unit volume levels. Our business teams continue to respond with business initiatives that reduce costs and promote growth of high barrier packaging sales.
1
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
Total Bemis net sales for the third quarter of 2012 was $1.3 billion, a 5.2 percent decrease from the same period of 2011. Acquisitions increased third quarter net sales by an estimated 1.1 percent. The impact of currency translation reduced net sales by 4.6 percent. The remaining 1.7 percent decrease in net sales reflects the impact of lower overall unit volume in the flexible packaging business segment.
Diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2012 was $0.45 compared to $0.53 per share in the same quarter of 2011. Excluding the effect of facility consolidation and acquisition-related charges, as detailed in the attached schedule, Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Data, adjusted diluted earnings per share would have been $0.60 for the third quarter of 2012 compared to $0.56 per share in the same quarter of 2011.
FACILITY CONSOLIDATION
Bemis' facility consolidation program includes the closure of nine manufacturing locations and is designed to improve efficiencies and reduce fixed costs. As of September 30, 2012, four locations have been closed. The remaining consolidation activities are expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013. Once completed, this facility consolidation program is expected to save approximately $50 million in annualized costs.
Highlights of the facility consolidation program:
FLEXIBLE PACKAGING BUSINESS SEGMENT
Net sales of Bemis' flexible packaging business segment was $1.2 billion, a 5.2 percent decrease from the same period of 2011. The impact of currency translation reduced net sales by 4.7 percent compared to the previous year, primarily reflecting the weaker Brazilian currency. Acquisitions increased 2012 net sales by 1.3 percent. The remaining modest reduction in sales represents the negative impact of lower unit sales volumes partially offset by higher selling prices and improved sales mix.
Segment operating profit for the third quarter of 2012 was $110.3 million, or 9.6 percent of net sales, compared to $117.4 million, or 9.7 percent of net sales, for the same period of 2011. Facility consolidation program and acquisition-related integration costs negatively impacted results during each period. Excluding these costs, segment adjusted operating profit would have been $132.8 million, or 11.5 percent of net sales, for the third quarter of 2012 and $119.1 million, or 9.8 percent of net sales, for the third quarter of 2011. (See attached schedule: Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Data.)
2
The effect of currency translation decreased operating profit in the third quarter of 2012 by $3.7 million compared to the same quarter of 2011.
Commenting on the flexible packaging segment results, Theisen said, Our flexible packaging sales mix improved during the third quarter with increased sales of high barrier packaging for perishable food products such as meat, cheese, dairy products, liquids, and coffee. The facility consolidation program is improving our cost structure and will continue to provide improvement as the remaining activities are completed in early 2013. Overall unit sales volumes were lower than prior year levels. Our focus continues to be improved efficiencies and growth in high barrier and medical device packaging worldwide.
PRESSURE SENSITIVE MATERIALS BUSINESS SEGMENT
Pressure sensitive materials net sales for the third quarter of 2012 were $135.4 million, down 4.5 percent compared to $141.8 million in the third quarter of 2011. The decrease in net sales primarily reflects the negative impact from currency translation of 4.3 percent. Currency translation in this business segment is primarily related to the Euro. For the third quarter of 2012, operating profit was $7.7 million, or 5.7 percent of net sales, compared to operating profit for the third quarter of 2011 of $8.0 million, or 5.6 percent of net sales. The effect of currency translation decreased operating profit in the third quarter of 2012 by $0.5 million compared to the same quarter of 2011.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND CASH FLOW
Net debt (defined as total debt less cash) to adjusted EBITDA (defined as, for the last twelve month period, adjusted operating income plus depreciation and amortization) was 2.2 times at September 30, 2012. Cash provided by operating activities for the third quarter of 2012 was $146.9 million. During the third quarter of 2012, Bemis acquired two small flexible packaging distributors for the Australian market for a cash price of $19.1 million. Management intends to direct excess cash flow toward debt reduction during the fourth quarter of 2012 in order to reduce the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA toward a target of approximately 2.0 times.
2012 EARNINGS OUTLOOK
Commenting on the outlook for the fourth quarter of the year, Theisen said, We have revised our earnings expectations for the total year to reflect the savings associated with facility consolidation activities completed as of the end of this quarter. Increased sales volume for certain high barrier food packaging is expected to continue to offset the negative impact of lower overall sales volumes, resulting in improved sales mix.
Management expects adjusted diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2012 to be in the range of $0.47 to $0.52, reflecting normal fourth quarter seasonality. Management expects adjusted diluted earnings per share for the full year 2012 to be in the range of $2.10 to $2.15 per share, reflecting the impact of stronger earnings during the third quarter. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $150 million for the full year 2012.
3
PRESENTATION OF NON-GAAP INFORMATION
This press release refers to non-GAAP financial measures: adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating profit as a percentage of net sales, net debt to adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures adjust for factors that are unusual or unpredictable. These measures exclude the impact of certain amounts related to facility consolidation activities including employee-related costs, lease termination payments, accelerated depreciation, and the write-down of equipment. These measures also exclude acquisition-related expenses including transaction expenses, due diligence expenses, professional and legal fees, purchase accounting adjustments for inventory and order backlog, integration expenses, the cash portion of any acquisition earnout payments recorded as compensation expenses, changes in fair value of deferred acquisition payments, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. This adjusted information should not be construed as an alternative to results determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). It is provided solely to assist in an investor's understanding of the impact of these items on the comparability of the Company's on-going business operations.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements in this release that are not historical, including statements relating to the expected future performance of the Company, are considered forward-looking and are presented pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such content is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to future changes in cost or availability of raw materials, our ability to adjust selling prices, consumer buying patterns, changes in customer order patterns, the results of competitive bid processes, unexpected costs associated with plant closures and facility consolidation activities, a failure in our information technology infrastructure or applications, foreign currency fluctuations, changes in working capital requirements, changes in interest rates, changes in government regulations, and the availability and related cost of financing from banks and capital markets. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or those projected in any such forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors which are detailed in the Company's regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
INVESTOR CONFERENCE CALL
Bemis Company, Inc. will webcast an investor telephone conference regarding its third quarter 2012 financial results this morning at 10 a.m., Eastern Time. Individuals may listen to the call on the Internet at
www.bemis.com
under Investor Relations. Listeners are urged to check the website ahead of time to ensure their computers are configured for the audio stream. Instructions for obtaining the required, free, downloadable software are available in a pre-event system test on the site.
ABOUT BEMIS COMPANY, INC.
Bemis Company, Inc. is a major supplier of flexible packaging and pressure sensitive materials used by leading food, consumer products, healthcare, and other companies worldwide. Founded in 1858, the Company is included in the S&P 500 index of stocks and reported 2011 net sales of $5.3 billion. The Company's flexible packaging business has a strong technical base in polymer chemistry, film extrusion, coating and laminating, printing, and converting. Headquartered in Neenah, Wisconsin, Bemis employs approximately 20,000 individuals worldwide. More information about the Company is available at our website, www.bemis.com.
4
BEMIS COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(in millions, except per share amounts) 
(unaudited)
 
5
BEMIS COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(in millions)
(unaudited)
 
6
BEMIS COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(in millions) 
(unaudited)
7
BEMIS COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
OPERATING PROFIT AND PRETAX PROFIT
(in millions)
(unaudited)
8
BEMIS COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP DATA
(in millions, except per share amounts)
(unaudited)
9


