Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Form 10 K contain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition" below. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations requires the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K describe the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Management believes the following to be critical accounting policies. That is, they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue pursuant to applicable accounting standards, including Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. SAB 101, as amended, summarizes certain of the SECs views in applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements and provides guidance on revenue recognition issues in the absence of authoritative literature addressing a specific arrangement or a specific industry. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is probable. Product is considered delivered to the customer once it has been shipped, and title and risk of loss have been transferred. Revenue on multiple element sales arrangements is allocated to various elements based on vendor specific objective evidence of the fair value of each element of the transaction and is recognized as each element is delivered. The Company records reductions to revenue for estimated commitments related to price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates and other sales programs and volume based incentives. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result in incremental reductions of revenue at the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer 19 incentive programs require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular incentive programs. If a greater than estimated proportion of customers redeem such incentives, the Company would be required to record additional reductions to revenue. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third party computer resellers and directly to certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible, the Company does attempt to limit credit risk on trade receivables through the use of flooring arrangements for selected customers with third party financing companies and credit insurance for certain customers in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral, flooring arrangements, or credit insurance are outstanding with the Companys distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on managements assessment of the collectibility of specific customer accounts and includes consideration of the credit worthiness and financial condition of those specific customers. The Company records an allowance to reduce the specific receivables to the amount that is reasonably believed to be collectible. The Company also records an allowance for all other trade receivables based on multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition of the Companys distribution channels, and the aging of such receivables. If there is a deterioration of a major customers financial condition, if the Company becomes aware of additional information related to the credit worthiness of a major customer, or if future actual default rates on trade receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have to adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings in the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments. The Company records a write down for inventories of components and products, including third party products held for resale, which have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value. The Company performs a detailed review of inventory each period that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product lifecycle status, product development plans, and component cost trends. The personal computer industry is subject to a rapid and unpredictable pace of product and component obsolescence. If future demand or market conditions for the Companys products are less favorable than forecasted or if unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility of component inventory, the Company may be required to record additional write downs which would negatively affect gross margins in the period when the write downs are made. The Company accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees related to component orders that have been canceled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. These formal and informal commitments typically cover the Companys requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 130 days. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in demand for one or more of the Companys products or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, the Company may be required to record additional reserves for cancellation fees, negatively affecting gross margins in the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Valuation of Long Lived Assets Including Acquired Intangibles The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of their carrying amount to future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If such assets are considered to be 20 impaired, the impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their fair market value. Although the Company has recognized no material impairment adjustments related to its property, plant, and equipment or identifiable intangibles during the past three fiscal years, except those made in conjunction with restructuring actions, deterioration in the Companys business in a geographic region or business segment in the future, including deterioration in the performance of individual retail stores, could lead to such impairment adjustments in the future periods in which such business issues are identified. As of September 28, 2002, the Company had $85 million in goodwill. The Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. As a result, the Company no longer amortizes goodwill but instead performs a review of goodwill for impairment annually, or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. The review of goodwill for potential impairment is highly subjective and requires that: (1) goodwill be allocated to various business units of the Companys business to which it relates; (2) the Company estimate the fair value of those business units to which the goodwill relates; and (3) the Company determine the book value of those business units. If the estimated fair value of business units with allocated goodwill is determined to be less than their book value, the Company is required to estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of those business units in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This requires independent valuation of certain internally developed and unrecognized assets including in process research and development and developed technology. Once this process is complete, the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, can be determined. Based on the Companys estimates as of September 28, 2002, there was no impairment of goodwill. However, changes in various circumstances including changes in the Companys market capitalization, changes in the Companys forecasts, and changes in the Companys internal business structure could cause one or more of the Companys business units to be valued differently thereby causing an impairment of goodwill. Additionally, in response to changes in the personal computer industry and changes in global or regional economic conditions, the Company may strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of property, plant, and equipment, identifiable intangibles, or goodwill. Valuation of Non Current Debt and Equity Investments As of September 28, 2002, the Company held investments in certain debt and equity securities with a combined carrying value of $39 million. These investments, which are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as non current debt and equity investments, have been categorized as available for sale requiring that they be carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported in equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company recognizes an impairment charge to earnings when it is judged an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. The Company has recognized material impairment charges related to its non current debt and equity investments in two quarters during the last two fiscal years. Various factors are considered in determining whether a decline in value is other than temporary, including the length of time and extent to which the investments market value has been less than its cost basis, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, and the Companys intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. The Companys non current debt and equity investments are in public companies whose security prices are subject to significant volatility. The Company recognized a pre tax impairment loss of $50 million related to two of these investments in the fourth quarter of 2002. As a result, as of September 28, 2002, the Company had no significant unrealized gains or losses recorded against the carrying value of its non current debt and equity investments. Should the fair value of these investments fall below the Companys current cost bases and or the financial condition or prospects of either company deteriorate, the Company may determine in a future period that such a decline in fair value is other than temporary, 21 requiring an impairment loss be recognized in the period such a determination is made. Additional information regarding these investments and potential charges related to their impairment may be found below under the caption "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales for geographic segments and by product follow (net sales in millions and Macintosh unit sales in thousands): 2002 Change 2001 Change 2000 Americas net sales $ 3,088 3 % $ 2,996 (30 )% $ 4,298 Europe net sales 1,251 0 % 1,249 (31 )% 1,817 Japan net sales 710 0 % 713 (47 )% 1,345 Retail net sales 283 19 Other segments net sales 410 6 % 386 (26 )% 523 Total net sales $ 5,742 7 % $ 5,363 (33 )% $ 7,983 Americas Macintosh unit sales 1,728 (2 )% 1,768 (29 )% 2,507 Europe Macintosh unit sales 722 (4 )% 754 (32 )% 1,110 Japan Macintosh unit sales 386 (2 )% 394 (46 )% 730 Retail Macintosh unit sales 92 7 Other segments Macintosh unit sales 173 5 % 164 (22 )% 211 Total Macintosh unit sales 3,101 0 % 3,087 (32 )% 4,558 Power Macintosh net sales (a) $ 1,380 (17 )% $ 1,664 (39 )% $ 2,747 PowerBook net sales 831 2 % 813 (14 )% 948 iMac net sales 1,448 30 % 1,117 (53 )% 2,381 iBook net sales 875 8 % 809 0 % 809 Software, Service, and Other net sales 1,208 26 % 960 (13 )% 1,098 Total net sales $ 5,742 7 % $ 5,363 (33 )% $ 7,983 Power Macintosh unit sales (a) 766 (18 )% 937 (35 )% 1,436 PowerBook unit sales 357 3 % 346 (10 )% 383 iMac unit sales 1,301 8 % 1,208 (45 )% 2,194 iBook unit sales 677 14 % 596 9 % 545 Total Macintosh unit sales 3,101 0 % 3,087 (32 )% 4,558 Net sales per Macintosh unit sold (b) $ 1,462 $ 1,426 $ 1,510 (a)Includes server sales and amounts previously reported as Power Macintosh G4 Cube. (b)Based on net sales associated with Macintosh units and total Macintosh units sold. Net sales increased $379 million or 7% during 2002 compared to 2001, while Macintosh unit sales were relatively flat year over year at approximately 3.1 million units. On a geographic basis, performance in the domestic market was relatively strong, especially when considering the performance of the Companys Retail segment which currently operates exclusively in the United States. However, the European and Japanese markets remained sluggish throughout 2002. The Companys net sales in 2002 were positively influenced by a number of factors. First, net sales from software, service, and other sources rose $248 million or 26% in 2002 versus 2001. This increase was driven by several factors including a 28% increase in combined third party and Apple 22 branded software sales; $143 million in net sales of iPod, the Companys portable digital music player that was introduced in the first half of 2002; a 9% increase in the sale of computer accessories; and a 14% increase in service revenue caused primarily by increased revenue associated with extended maintenance and support contracts. The growth in software revenue was primarily the result of increased sales of third party software in the Companys retail and online stores and expansion in recent years in the number of Apple branded software titles. Second, overall unit sales of Macintosh portable systems grew by 92,000 units or 10% in 2002 reflecting a general trend in the personal computer market away from desktop systems towards portable systems. During 2002, portable Macintosh systems represented 33% of total systems sales versus 31% in 2001 and 20% in 2000. Growth in this area has been most pronounced for iBook, the Companys education and consumer oriented portable Macintosh system. iBook unit sales increased 14% in 2002 and 9% in 2001. Third, the Companys Retail segment grew from 8 stores at the end of 2001 to 40 stores at the end of 2002. The Retail segments net sales grew from $19 million in 2001 to $283 million in 2002. While the Retail segment may cannibalize some net sales from the Companys preexisting sales channels in the U.S., the Company does believe that a substantial portion of the Retail segments net sales are incremental to the Companys total net sales. See additional comments below related to the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." Fourth, the Companys average unit pricing remained relatively stable during 2002 as a result of various changes in overall unit mix offset by somewhat lower pricing year over year on comparative Macintosh systems. Net sales per Macintosh unit sold during 2002 of $1,462 per unit reflects the shift in mix towards relatively higher priced portable Macintosh systems and reflects the impact on net sales of the relatively higher priced new iMac design introduced during 2002. The impact of these changes in mix were offset by the decline in unit sales of relatively higher priced Power Macintosh systems and by lower pricing on comparative Macintosh systems during 2002 for most of the Companys Macintosh product lines in response to industry pricing pressure. Fifth, any comparison of net sales in 2002 versus 2001 must consider the effect of unusually low net sales during the first quarter of 2001. As discussed below, this was attributable to several factors at the beginning of 2001, including continuing deterioration in worldwide demand for personal computers, rebate programs and price cuts instituted by the Company during that quarter that cost the Company approximately $138 million, and a plan implemented by the Company during the first quarter of 2001 to reduce substantially the level of inventory in its distribution channels that resulted in a decline in channel inventory of approximately 300,000 units during that quarter. Net sales during the first quarter of 2001 are discussed in more detail below. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Companys net sales in 2002 were negatively impacted by several notable factors. First, unit sales of Power Macintosh systems fell 18% during 2002 as compared to 2001. This followed a 35% decline in Power Macintosh unit sales in 2001 from 2000. The Company continues to believe that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having a pronounced negative impact on its professional and creative customers and that many of these customers continue to delay upgrades of their Power Macintosh systems due to the Companys ongoing transition to Mac OS X, its new operating system, and in anticipation of certain software vendors transitioning their Macintosh applications to run natively in Mac OS X. Further, the Company did not experience the anticipated increase in Power Macintosh sales that it expected following the introduction of Adobes PhotoShop 7 during 2002. Additionally, many professional users may have postponed upgrading their systems until after the introduction of Mac OS X Jaguar released in the fourth quarter of 2002. Others may have delayed upgrading until after the availability of other professionally oriented software applications for Mac OS X such as QuarkXpress. 23  Second, despite the overall increase in net sales during 2002 in the Americas, the Company continues to see weakness in its U.S. education channel. Total net sales in this channel fell 15% in 2002 and 4% in 2001. These declines are consistent with industry data that shows the Company losing market share in the U.S. education market in each of the last two fiscal years. The Company believes this weakness has been caused by multiple factors, including increased price competition in this price sensitive market from the Companys competitors who sell Windows based personal computers. Additionally, some of the Companys education customers appear to be delaying technology purchases due to concerns about the overall impact of the weaker economy on their available funding. The Company continues to take steps to address weakness in the U.S. education channel. However, it is difficult to anticipate how this trend will affect fiscal 2003 and to anticipate when and if this trend will reverse. Third, the personal computer industry in general and the Company specifically continue to see relatively soft demand for its products. Despite an overall increase in unit sales of consumer oriented Macintosh systems during 2002, consumer sales remain far below levels experienced in 2000 and earlier. Worsening global economic conditions over the past three years exacerbated by the economic and political uncertainties caused by terrorist activities and the associated international responses have clearly had a pronounced negative effect on the overall demand for the Companys products in virtually all of its markets. Further, growth in the overall personal computer industry has been slowed due to the high market penetration of personal computers and a lengthening of consumer, creative, and business personal computer upgrade cycles. In short, the Company believes that expansion in the overall market for personal computers has for the most part stalled and that growth awaits a combination of economic recovery and technological advancements. Net sales decreased $2.6 billion or 33% during 2001 compared to 2000, while Macintosh unit sales fell 32% from 2000. Demand for all of the Companys products in all of the Companys geographic operating segments was negatively impacted throughout 2001 by unfavorable global economic conditions. On a year over year basis, net sales and Macintosh unit sales were down in all of the Companys geographic operating segments, and net sales and unit sales by product were down for each Macintosh product category except iBook. In addition to general economic conditions, two other primary factors contributed to the decline in net sales during 2001. First, as discussed below, the Company executed a plan during the first three quarters of 2001 to reduce substantially the level of inventory in its distribution channels. As a result of these efforts, the Companys Macintosh channel inventory fell by approximately 450,000 units during the first nine months of 2001. Second, the Company believes that many of its professional users were delaying upgrades of their Power Macintosh systems due to the Companys ongoing transition to Mac OS X, its new operating system, and in anticipation of software vendors transitioning their Mac applications to run natively in Mac OS X. Several positive factors combined to partially mitigate the overall decline in net sales during 2001. The net sales per Macintosh unit sold remained relatively strong during 2001 after adjusting for the $138 million impact to net sales of the rebate programs and price cuts instituted by the Company during the first quarter of 2001, falling only about 2.5% from 2000. The relatively strong per unit sales in 2001 reflects somewhat lower year over year pricing on comparative systems, offset by a shift in overall sales mix toward higher priced portable systems. Also, the Company experienced very little shift in the mix of overall combined unit sales of relatively lower priced consumer and education Macintosh systems, iMac and iBook, and their higher priced professionally oriented equivalents. Combined unit sales of iMac and iBook systems accounted for 58% of total Macintosh unit sales in 2001 and 60% in 2000. Second, combined unit sales of portable systems, iBook and PowerBook, actually rose 2% during 2001 despite the negative economic climate and the overall decline in unit sales. Not only does this increase in portable system sales reflect a general industry shift toward portable systems, it is also specifically attributable to the strong demand for redesigned iBooks introduced during the third quarter of 2001 and for the Titanium PowerBook G4 which was introduced during the second quarter of 2001. Third, a small decline in net sales 24 in the U.S. education market during 2001 compared to 2000 was partially mitigated by a 7% increase in U.S. education unit sales during 2001. First quarter 2001 net sales decreased 57% to $1.007 billion compared to the same quarter in 2000 and decreased 46% from the fourth quarter of 2000. Both the year over year and sequential declines in net sales during the first quarter of 2001 were attributable to several factors, including continued deterioration in worldwide demand for personal computers and rebate programs and price cuts instituted by the Company during the quarter that cost the Company approximately $138 million. In addition, the Company implemented a plan during the first quarter to reduce substantially the level of inventory in its distribution channels from the amounts at the end of fiscal 2000 to lower levels by the end of the first quarter of 2001. The Company ended fiscal 2000 with substantially more inventory in its distribution channels than planned due to the lower than expected sell through of the Companys products during the fourth quarter of that year. The Company reduced Macintosh channel inventory during the first quarter by approximately 300,000 units. These factors contributed to the 52% year over year decline during the first quarter in total Macintosh unit sales that were experienced across the Companys entire product line. These factors also reduced the net sales per Macintosh unit sold (a function of total net sales associated with Macintosh units and total Macintosh CPU unit sales) during the first quarter of 2001 to $1,476, a decline of approximately 12% from the same period in 2000. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys reportable operating segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the Companys Retail segment. The European segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple owned retail stores in the United States. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Part II, Item 8 on this Form 10 K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at Note 11, "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Americas Net sales for the Americas segment increased 3% or $92 million in 2002. As discussed above, the Americas segment was negatively affected by a decline in U.S. education sales in 2002 of $215 million. The Americas segment also experienced a 17% decline in Power Macintosh unit sales. However, outside of the U.S. education channel, unit sales of consumer desktop and portable systems rebounded from the substantial declines experienced in 2001, rising a combined 31% in 2002. Sales of software, peripherals, and accessories were also up in the Americas during 2002. Growth in unit sales of consumer oriented systems during 2002 in the Americas is somewhat attributable to the significantly depressed level of net sales experienced in the first quarter of 2001 discussed above. However, growth in the Americas was somewhat negatively affected, particularly with respect to consumer oriented systems, by the significant growth of the Companys Retail segment in the U.S. More than 70% of the Retail segments Macintosh unit sales during 2002 were for iMacs and iBooks. The Americas segments 2001 net sales and unit sales declined 30% and 29%, respectively, from 2000. The operating performance of the Americas segment for 2001 reflects the Companys overall performance characterized by significant declines in year over year quarterly net sales and units sales, particularly during the first quarter and particularly in consumer channels, with sequential increases in unit sales and net sales during each of the last three quarters of 2001. Net sales in the Americas segment during 2001 were also negatively affected by the Companys overall reduction in channel inventories during the year. Consumer sales in the Americas were particularly hard hit by current economic conditions. Outside of the U.S. education channel, unit sales of the Companys consumer oriented iMac fell 64% in 2001. The effect of falling consumer demand in the Americas segment was partially offset by strong U.S. education sales. The Companys unit sales in U.S. education markets rose 7% in 2001 driven by the acceptance of the 25 Companys new portable products, particularly the iBook, and reflect a general shift in demand in the U.S. education market towards portable versus desktop systems. Portable systems accounted for 28% of total unit sales in the Companys U.S. education market in 2001 compared to 18% during 2000. During 2002 and 2001, the Americas segment represented approximately 54% and 56%, respectively, of the Companys total net sales and represented approximately 56% and 57%, respectively, of total Macintosh unit sales. Europe Economic conditions in Europe remained weak throughout 2002, and the overall demand for the Companys products in that region remained flat during 2002 versus 2001. Unit sales in Europe for 2002 reflect relatively stronger demand for consumer oriented products, particularly iBook whose unit sales increased 27% in 2002, offset by declines in Power Macintosh unit sales. Net sales in Europe fell $568 million or 31% during 2001 compared to 2000, while Europes unit sales fell 32%. Europes results reflect the worsening economic climate in Europe in the latter half of 2001 and reductions in channel inventories as experienced in the Companys other geographic operating segments. Combined unit sales of the Companys consumer oriented products in Europe were particularly impacted during 2001, falling 40% from 2000. Japan Net sales in Japan remained flat during 2002 versus 2001, with a slight decline in unit sales of 2%. Consistent with the Companys other geographic operating segments, during 2002 Japan showed growth in unit sales of consumer systems and a decline in unit sales of Power Macintosh systems. Japans iMac unit sales increased 85% in 2002. However, in the case of Japan the increase in iMac unit shipments in 2002 versus 2001 was primarily the result of the unusually depressed level of net sales experienced by the Company in the first quarter of 2001 discussed above. Additionally, net sales in Japan on a sequential and year over year comparative basis generally worsened as 2002 progressed reflecting particularly poor economic conditions that currently exist in Japan. Net sales and unit sales in Japan fell 47% and 46%, respectively, in 2001 versus 2000. Although unit sales and net sales in Japan have generally trended upwards as 2001 progressed, the Japan segment has been particularly affected by current unfavorable economic conditions. Reflecting the continuing harsh consumer climate in Japan, the Japan segments combined unit sales of iMacs and iBooks during 2001 were down 58% from 2000, and professionally oriented systems unit sales fell 30%. Retail By the end of September 2002, the Company had 40 retail stores operating in the United States, 32 of which were opened during fiscal 2002. The Company has opened 11 additional stores during the first quarter of 2003. During 2002, approximately 39% of the Retail segments net sales came from the sale of Apple branded and third party peripherals and software. This compares to 21% for the Company as a whole. With an average of 35 stores open, the Retail segment achieved average annualized revenue per store during the fourth quarter of approximately $12 million and had approximately 2.25 million visitors. The Retail segment reported a loss for all of 2002 of $22 million, and a loss for the fourth quarter of 2002 of $3 million. Expansion of the Retail segment has required and will continue to require a substantial investment in fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment totaled $106 million in 2002 and $92 million in 2001. As of September 28, 2002, the Retail segment had 807 employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities of $209 million. The Company would incur substantial costs should it choose to terminate its Retail segment or close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Investment 26 in a new business model such as the Retail segment is inherently risky, particularly in light of the significant investment involved, the current economic climate, and the fixed nature of a substantial portion of the Retail segments operating expenses. Results for this segment are dependent upon a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are discussed below under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Backlog In the Companys experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any particular time is not a meaningful indication of its future business prospects. In particular, backlog often increases in anticipation of or immediately following new product introductions because of over ordering by dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often is reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because of the foregoing, backlog cannot be considered a reliable indicator of the Companys ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. Further information regarding the Companys backlog may be found below under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Gross Margin Gross margin for the three fiscal years ended September 28, 2002 are as follows (in millions, except gross margin percentages): 2002 2001 2000 Net sales $ 5,742 $ 5,363 $ 7,983 Cost of sales 4,139 4,128 5,817 Gross margin $ 1,603 $ 1,235 $ 2,166 Gross margin percentage 28 % 23 % 27 % Gross margin increased to 28% of net sales in 2002 from 23% in 2001. As discussed below, gross margin in 2001 was unusually low resulting from negative gross margin of 2% experienced in the first quarter of 2001. As a percentage of net sales, the Companys quarterly gross margins declined during fiscal 2002 from 31% in the first quarter down to 26% in the fourth quarter. This decline resulted from several factors including a rise in component costs as the year progressed and aggressive pricing by the Company across its products lines instituted as a result of continued pricing pressures in the personal computer industry. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin of the overall personal computer industry will remain under pressure throughout fiscal 2003 in light of weak economic conditions, flat demand for personal computers in general, and the resulting pressure on prices. The foregoing statements regarding anticipated gross margin in 2003 and the general demand for personal computers during 2003 are forward looking. Gross margin could differ from anticipated levels because of several factors, including certain of those set forth below in the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." There can be no assurance that current gross margins will be maintained, targeted gross margin levels will be achieved, or current margins on existing individual products will be maintained. In general, gross margins and margins on individual products will remain under significant downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases in the cost and availability of raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes to the Companys product mix, including higher unit sales of consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. In response to these downward pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take pricing actions with respect to its products. Gross margins could also be affected by the Companys ability to effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs and to stimulate demand for certain of its products. The Companys operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes in foreign 27 currency exchange rates over time; however, the Companys results of operations can be significantly affected in the short term by fluctuations in exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory in advance of product shipments. Because the Companys markets are volatile and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce or order from third parties excess or insufficient inventories of particular products or components. The Companys operating results and financial condition have been in the past and may in the future be materially adversely affected by the Companys ability to manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and to respond to short term shifts in customer demand patterns. Gross margin declined to 23% of net sales in 2001 from 27% in 2000. This decline resulted primarily from gross margin of negative 2% experienced during the first quarter of 2001 compared to 26% gross margin for the same quarter in 2000. In addition to lower than normal net sales, first quarter 2001 margins were negatively impacted by the rebate programs and price cuts discussed above that decreased revenue by approximately $138 million. Additionally, actual and forecasted declines in net sales caused the Company to recognize during the first quarter of 2001 approximately $122 million of charges associated with purchase order cancellations and loss commitments for component purchases. Without these charges, gross margin for the first quarter of 2001 would have been approximately 21%, and gross margin for all of 2001 would have been approximately 27%. As a percentage of net sales, the Companys gross margin increased each quarter as 2001 progressed reaching 30% during the fourth quarter. This pattern reflects the favorable impact during 2001 of declining component costs, especially for DRAM, hard drives, and flat panel screens. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three fiscal years ended September 28, 2002 are as follows (in millions, except for percentages): 2002 2001 2000 Research and development $ 446 $ 430 $ 380 Percentage of net sales 8 % 8 % 5 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ 1,111 $ 1,138 $ 1,166 Percentage of net sales 19 % 21 % 15 % Research and Development (R&D) The Company recognizes that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace and are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to the Companys core business strategy. R&D expense increased 4% or $16 million to $446 million in 2002 as compared to 2001. This followed a $50 million or 13% increase in 2001 as compared to 2000. The overall increase in R&D expense over the last two years relates primarily to increased R&D headcount and support for new product development activities. R&D spending in 2002 also included capitalized software development costs of approximately $13.3 million associated with the development of Mac OS X Jaguar and approximately $6 million associated with the new PowerSchool enterprise student information system. R&D spending in 2001 also included capitalized software development costs of approximately $5.4 million associated with the development of the original version of Mac OS X. Further information related to the Companys capitalization of software development costs may be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K at Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense (SG&A) SG&A decreased $27 million or 2% during 2002 as compared to 2001. The decrease in SG&A in 2002 is primarily the result of lower discretionary spending on marketing and advertising expenses, decreased spending related to information systems, and benefits directly related to the Companys restructuring 28 actions in 2002 and 2001. These decreases were partially offset by higher sales expense in 2002 resulting from increased operating expenses associated with expansion of the Companys Retail segment. SG&A expenditures decreased $28 million or 2% during 2001 as compared to 2000. Declines in SG&A spending in both 2002 and 2001 reflect the Companys overall efforts to stabilize and selectively reduce recurring SG&A costs in light of lower net sales and to reduce discretionary marketing and advertising expenses. Given current economic conditions and the Companys continued strategic investments in new product development and its Retail segment, the Company is currently identifying additional opportunities to make appropriate reductions in SG&A costs. Special Charges Included in Operating Expenses Special charges included in operating expense for the three fiscal years ended September 28, 2002 are as follows (in millions): 2002 2001 2000 Restructuring costs $ 30 $ 8 Purchased in process research and development $ 1 $ 11 Executive bonus $ (2 ) $ 90 2002 Restructuring Actions During fiscal 2002, the Company recorded total restructuring charges of $30 million related to actions intended to eliminate certain activities and better align the Companys operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and to partially offset the cost of continuing investments in new product development and investments in the Companys Retail operating segment. Once fully implemented, the Company estimates these restructuring actions will result in reduced quarterly operating expenses of approximately $10 million. Of the $30 million restructuring charge for fiscal 2002, $6 million was incurred in the fourth quarter of 2002 related to actions designed to reduce headcount costs in Corporate operations and sales and to adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. Headcount actions, primarily in Corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development, resulted in the elimination of approximately 180 positions worldwide at a cost of $1.8 million. The shift in product strategy at PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing of a PowerSchool product that resulted in the impairment of previously capitalized development costs associated with the product in the amount of $4.5 million. The remaining charge in 2002 of $24 million was incurred in the first quarter of 2002 and will ultimately result in the elimination of approximately 425 positions worldwide, 415 of which were eliminated by September 28, 2002, at a cost of $8 million. Positions were eliminated primarily in the Companys operations, information systems, and administrative functions. In addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes in the Companys information systems strategy resulting in termination of equipment leases and cancellation of existing projects and activities. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $12 million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $4 million. Of the total charge in 2002 of $30 million, substantially all had been spent by September 28, 2002, except for approximately $1 million related primarily to future payments on abandoned operating leases. 2000 Restructuring Actions During the first quarter of 2000, the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting in recognition of an $8 million restructuring charge. This charge was comprised of $3 million for the write off of various operating assets and $5 million for severance payments to approximately 95 employees associated with consolidation of various domestic and international sales and marketing functions. Of the $5 million accrued for severance, $2.5 million had been spent before the end of 2000, and the remainder was spent in 2001. Of the $3 million accrued for the write off of various assets, substantially all was utilized before the end of 2000. 29 Purchased In Process Research and Development (IPR&D) During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company acquired Emagic GmbH, a provider of professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $30 million in cash; $551,000 of which was allocated to IPR&D. The amount of the purchase price allocated to IPR&D was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility of products under development had not been established and no alternative future uses existed. The IPR&D relates primarily to Emagics Logic series technology and extensions. At the date of the acquisition, the products under development were between 43% 83% complete, and it was expected that the remaining work would be completed during the Companys fiscal 2003 at a cost of approximately $415,000. The remaining efforts include finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value of the IPR&D was determined by an independent third party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will be generated by the IPR&D projects and that are attributable to the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back to their present value using a discount rate of 25%. In May 2001, the Company acquired PowerSchool, Inc. (PowerSchool), a provider of web based student information systems for K 12 schools and districts that enables schools to record, access, report, and manage their student data and performance in real time, and gives parents real time web access to track their childrens progress. Of total purchase consideration of $66.1 million, $10.8 million was allocated to IPR&D and was expensed upon acquisition because the technological feasibility of products under development had not been established and no alternative future uses existed. The IPR&D relates to technologies representing processes and expertise employed to design, develop, and deploy a functioning, scalable web based student information system for use by K 12 schools. At the date of the acquisition, the PowerSchool product under development was approximately 50% complete, and it was expected that the remaining 50% would be completed during the Companys fiscal 2002 at a cost of approximately $9.25 million. The remaining efforts, which were completed during 2002, included completion of coding, finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value of the IPR&D was determined by an independent third party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will be generated by the IPR&D projects and that are attributable to the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back to their present value using a discount rate of 25%. Executive Bonus During the first quarter of 2000, the Companys Board of Directors approved a special executive bonus for the Companys Chief Executive Officer for past services in the form of an aircraft with a total cost to the Company of approximately $90 million, the majority of which was not tax deductible. Approximately half of the total charge was for the cost of the aircraft. The other half represents all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. In the fourth quarter of 2002, all significant work and payments associated with the aircraft were complete. Of the original $90 million accrual, $2.4 million remained unspent at the end of fiscal 2002 and was reversed. 30 Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three fiscal years ended September 28, 2002 are as follows (in millions): 2002 2001 2000 Gains (losses) on non current investments, net $ (42 ) $ 88 $ 367 Unrealized loss on convertible securities $ (13 ) $ Interest income $ 118 $ 218 $ 210 Interest expense (11 ) (16 ) (21 ) Miscellaneous other income and expense 5 15 14 Interest and other income, net $ 112 $ 217 $ 203 Total other income and expense $ 70 $ 292 $ 570 Gains and Losses on Non current Investments Investments categorized as non current debt and equity investments on the consolidated balance sheet are in equity and debt instruments of public companies. The Companys non current debt and equity investments, and certain investments in private companies carried in other assets, have been categorized as available for sale requiring that they be carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported in equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. However, the Company recognizes an impairment charge to earnings in the event a decline in fair value below the cost basis of one of these investments is determined to be other than temporary. The Company includes recognized gains and losses resulting from the sale or from other than temporary declines in fair value associated with these investments in other income and expense. Further information related to the Companys non current debt and equity investments may be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K at Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. During 2002, the Company determined that declines in the fair value of certain of these investments were other than temporary. As a result, the Company recognized a $44 million charge to earnings to write down the basis of its investment in EarthLink, Inc. (EarthLink), a $6 million charge to earnings to write down the basis of its investment in Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), and a $15 million charge to earnings to write down the basis of its investment in a private company investment. These losses in 2002 were partially offset by the sale of 117,000 shares of EarthLink stock for net proceeds of $2 million and a gain before taxes of $223,000, the sale of 250,000 shares of Akamai stock for net proceeds of $2 million and a gain before taxes of $710,000, and the sale of approximately 4.7 million shares of ARM Holdings plc (ARM) stock for both net proceeds and a gain before taxes of $21 million. During 2001, the Company sold a total of approximately 1 million shares of Akamai stock for net proceeds of $39 million and recorded a gain before taxes of $36 million, and sold a total of approximately 29.8 million shares of ARM stock for net proceeds of $176 million and recorded a gain before taxes of $174 million. These gains during 2001 were partially offset by a $114 million charge to earnings that reflected an other than temporary decline in the fair value of the Companys investment in EarthLink and an $8 million charge that reflected an other than temporary decline in the fair value of certain private company investments. During 2000, the Company sold a total of approximately 45.2 million shares of ARM stock for net proceeds of $372 million and a gain before taxes of $367 million. The combined carrying value of the Companys investments in EarthLink, Akamai, and ARM as of September 28, 2002, was $39 million. The Company believes it is likely there will continue to be significant fluctuations in the fair value of these investments in the future. 31 Accounting for Derivatives and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change On October 1, 2000, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS No. 133 established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. Net of the related income tax effect of approximately $5 million, adoption of SFAS No. 133 resulted in a favorable cumulative effect type adjustment to net income of approximately $12 million for the first quarter of 2001. The $17 million gross transition adjustment was comprised of a $23 million favorable adjustment for the restatement to fair value of the derivative component of the Companys investment in Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (Samsung), partially offset by the unfavorable adjustments to certain foreign currency and interest rate derivatives. SFAS No. 133 also required the Company to adjust the carrying value of the derivative component of its investment in Samsung to earnings during the first quarter of 2001, the before tax effect of which was an unrealized loss of approximately $13 million. Interest and Other Income, Net Net interest and other income was $112 million in fiscal 2002, compared to $217 million in fiscal 2001. This $105 million or 48% decrease is primarily the result of declining investment yields on the Companys cash and short term investments resulting from substantially lower market interest rates. The weighted average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments fell to 2.85% in 2002 compared to 5.38% in 2001. Net interest and other income increased $14 million or 7% to $217 million during 2001. The increase was due in part to interest income from higher cash and invested balances in 2001, partially offset by declining interest rates and investment yields, and a rebalancing of the aggregate investment portfolio to a higher proportion of lower risk and better credit investments. The weighted average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments fell to 5.38% in 2001 compared to 6.12% in 2000. The Company expects interest and other income, net to decline substantially in 2003 as declines in interest rates continue to impact earnings on the Companys investment portfolio. The Companys expects this decline to be most pronounced in the second half of the fiscal year. The foregoing statements are forward looking. Interest and other income, net could differ from expected levels because of several factors, including certain of those set forth below in the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Additionally, actual future interest and other income, net may be significantly impacted by unforeseen changes in market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the fair value of the Companys short term and long term investments. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate for 2002 was 25% compared to the higher statutory rate due primarily to the research and development credit and the reversal of valuation allowances. As of September 28, 2002, the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of $369 million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation on the Companys balance sheet. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. As of September 28, 2002, a valuation allowance of $30 million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits of tax losses that may not be realized. The valuation allowance relates principally to the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization of which is subject to certain limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will continue to evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets quarterly by assessing the need for and amount of the valuation allowance. 32 The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed audits of the Companys federal income tax returns through 1997. Substantially all IRS audit issues for years through 1997 have been resolved. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and or normal use of the asset. SFAS No. 143 requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The fair value of the liability is added to the carrying amount of the associated asset and this additional carrying amount is depreciated over the life of the asset. The Company is required to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 143 for the first quarter of its fiscal 2003. Management does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143 to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (Statement 144), which supersedes both SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30 (Opinion 30), Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions, for the disposal of a segment of a business (as previously defined in that Opinion). SFAS No. 144 retains the fundamental provisions in SFAS No. 121 for recognizing and measuring impairment losses on long lived assets held for use and long lived assets to be disposed of by sale, while also resolving significant implementation issues associated with SFAS No. 121. For example, SFAS No. 144 provides guidance on how a long lived asset that is used as part of a group should be evaluated for impairment, establishes criteria for when a long lived asset is held for sale, and prescribes the accounting for a long lived asset that will be disposed of other than by sale. SFAS No. 144 retains the basic provisions of Opinion 30 on how to present discontinued operations in the income statement but broadens that presentation to include a component of an entity (rather than a segment of a business). Unlike SFAS No. 121, an impairment assessment under SFAS No. 144 will never result in a write down of goodwill. Rather, goodwill is evaluated for impairment under SFAS No. No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The Company is required to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 144 for the first quarter of its fiscal 2003. Management does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 144 for long lived assets held for use to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements because the impairment assessment under SFAS No. 144 is largely unchanged from SFAS No. 121. The provisions of SFAS No. 144 for assets held for sale or other disposal generally are required to be applied prospectively after the adoption date to newly initiated disposal activities. In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS No. 146 supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs To Exit an Activity (Including Certain Costs Associated with a Restructuring) and requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, as opposed to when management is committed to an exit plan. SFAS No. 146 also establishes that the liability should initially be measured and recorded at fair value. This Statement is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. The provisions of SFAS No. 146 are required to be applied prospectively after the adoption date to newly initiated exit activities, and may affect the timing of recognizing future restructuring costs, as well as the amounts recognized. 33  Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each of the last three fiscal years (dollars in millions): 2002 2001 2000 Cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments $ 4,337 $ 4,336 $ 4,027 Accounts receivable, net $ 565 $ 466 $ 953 Inventory $ 45 $ 11 $ 33 Working capital $ 3,730 $ 3,625 $ 3,494 Days sales in accounts receivable (a) 36 29 46 Days of supply in inventory (b) 4 1 2 Annual operating cash flow $ 89 $ 185 $ 868 (a)Based on ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. (b)Based on ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost of sales for each period. As of September 28, 2002, the Company had $4.337 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments, virtually unchanged from the end of fiscal 2001. The primary sources of total cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments in fiscal 2002 were $89 million in cash generated by operating activities and $105 million in proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, offset by cash utilized for business and asset acquisitions of $52 million and capital expenditures of $174 million. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. Lease Commitments As of September 28, 2002, the Company had total outstanding commitments on noncancelable operating leases of $464 million, $209 million of which related to the lease of retail space and related facilities. Remaining terms on the Companys existing operating leases range from 1 to 12 years. Subsequent to September 28, 2002, the Company entered into additional operating lease commitments for retail space with future lease commitments totaling $65 million for periods ranging from 5 to 10 years. Long Term Debt The Company currently has long term debt outstanding in the form of $300 million of aggregate principal amount 6.5% unsecured notes. The notes were sold at 99.925% of par, for an effective yield to maturity of 6.51%. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature on February 15, 2004. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers to manufacture sub assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and test of finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from 1 to 3 months. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. Such formal and informal purchase commitments typically cover the Companys forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 130 days. As of September 28, 2002, the Company had outstanding third party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments of approximately $525 million. 34 Capital Expenditures Of total capital expenditures in 2002 of $174 million, $106 million was for retail store facilities and equipment related to the Companys Retail segment and $68 million was for corporate infrastructure including information systems enhancements and operating facilities enhancements and expansions. The Company currently anticipates it will utilize approximately $160 million for capital expenditures during 2003, approximately $77 million of which is expected to be utilized for further expansion of the Companys Retail segment and the remainder utilized to support normal replacement of existing capital assets and enhancements to general information technology infrastructure. Stock Repurchase Plan In July 1999, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a plan for the Company to repurchase up to $500 million of its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company to acquire any specific number of shares or acquire shares over any specified period of time. During 2002 and 2001, the Company repurchased no common shares. However, during the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company entered into a forward purchase agreement to acquire 1.5 million shares of its common stock in September of 2003 at an average price of $16.64 per share for a total cost of $25.5 million. Since inception of the repurchase plan, the Company has repurchased or committed to repurchase a total of 6.55 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $217 million. Non Current Debt and Equity Investments The Company has held significant investments in ARM, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, Akamai, and EarthLink. These investments are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as non current debt and equity investments and have been categorized as available for sale requiring that they be carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported in equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains on the sale of these investments have been included in other income. The combined fair value of these investments was $39 million, $128 million, and $786 million as of the end of fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The Company believes it is likely there will continue to be significant fluctuations in the fair value of these investments in the future. Further information related to the Companys non current debt and equity investments may be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K at Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Companys operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. General economic conditions and current economic and political uncertainty could adversely affect the Company. The Companys operating performance depends significantly on general economic conditions. For much of the past 3 years, demand for the Companys products has been negatively impacted by worsening global economic conditions. Continued uncertainty about future economic conditions continues to make it difficult to forecast future operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions fail to improve or continue to deteriorate, demand for the Companys products could continue to be adversely affected, as could the financial health of its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The terrorist attacks that took place on September 11, 2001, disrupted commerce throughout the world and created many economic and political uncertainties that have had a strong negative impact on the global economy. The long term effects of the September 11, 2001 attacks on the Companys future operating results and financial condition remain unknown. The national and international responses to terrorist attacks, the potential for future terrorist attacks and other acts of hostility, and the potential for 35 war in the Middle East have created economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect the Companys future operating results and financial condition. The market for personal computers is highly competitive. The personal computer industry is highly competitive and is characterized by aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, price sensitivity on the part of consumers, and a large number of competitors. Over the past several years, price competition in the market for personal computers has been particularly intense. The Companys competitors who sell Windows based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins in order to gain or maintain market share in response to weakness in demand for personal computing products that began in the second half of calendar 2000. The Companys results of operations and financial condition have been, and in the future may continue to be, adversely affected by these and other industry wide pricing pressures and downward pressures on gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized by rapid technological advances in software functionality, hardware performance, and features based on existing or emerging industry standards. Further, as the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance on the Internet, an increasing number of Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Companys existing products. Several competitors of the Company have either targeted or announced their intention to target certain of the Companys key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Additionally, several of the Companys competitors have introduced or announced plans to introduce products that mimic many of the unique design, technical features, and solutions of the Companys products. The Company has many substantial competitors, many of whom have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, as well as broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those of the Company. Additionally, there has been a trend towards consolidation in the personal computer industry that has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors in the Companys markets. The Company is currently the only maker of hardware using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal computer market, which is dominated by makers of computers utilizing Microsofts Windows operating systems. The Companys future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent on its ability to continue to develop improvements to the Macintosh platform in order to maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms, including Windows. The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, as a percentage of revenues, than many of competitors. The Companys ability to compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins is heavily dependent upon its ability to ensure a continuing and timely flow of innovative and competitive products and technology to the marketplace. As a result, the Company incurs higher research and development costs as a percentage of revenue than its competitors who sell Windows based personal computers. Many of these competitors seek to compete aggressively on price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, as a result of the expansion of the Companys Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Companys brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs as a percent of revenue than many of its competitors. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results of operations may be materially adversely affected by its operating cost structure. 36 The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due to the highly volatile nature of the personal computer industry, which is characterized by dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. The success of new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, the Companys ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability of application software for new products, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect that new products will have on its sales or results of operations. During 2001, the Company introduced a new client operating system, Mac OS X, and delivered its first major upgrade, Mac OS X version 10.1. During 2002, the Company delivered another major upgrade, Mac OS X Jaguar. Inability of the Company to improve the performance and functionality of Mac OS X, advance customer acceptance of the new operating system and its upgrades, or obtain the continued commitment of software developers to transition existing applications to run on Mac OS X or create new applications to run on Mac OS X, may have an adverse impact on the Companys operating results and financial condition. Because orders for components, and in some cases commitments to purchase components, must be placed in advance of customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records a write down for inventories of components and products that have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees of orders for inventories that have been canceled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the computer industry, no assurance can be given the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. In addition, such charges have had, and may again have, a material effect on the Companys financial position and results of operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments. Because the Companys markets are volatile and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce or order from third parties excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through a combination of formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. Such formal and informal purchase commitments typically cover the Companys forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 130 days. The Companys operating results and financial condition have been in the past and may in the future be materially adversely affected by the Companys ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short term shifts in customer demand patterns. Future operating results are dependent upon the Companys ability to obtain a sufficient supply of components, some of which are in short supply or available only from limited sources. Although most components essential to the Companys business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, TFT LCD flat panel displays, and optical and magnetic disk drives), while currently available to the Company from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry wide availability and pricing pressures. In addition, new products introduced by the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. In situations where a component or product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time as the suppliers yields have 37 matured. The Company and other producers in the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs. Continued availability of these components may be affected if producers were to decide to concentrate on the production of components other than those customized to meet the Companys requirements. If the supply of a key component were to be delayed or constrained on a new or existing product, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Companys ability to produce and market competitive products is also dependent on the ability and desire of IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers of the PowerPC RISC based microprocessor for the Companys Macintosh computers, to provide the Company with a sufficient supply of microprocessors with price/performance features that compare favorably to those supplied to the Companys competitors by Intel Corporation and other developers and producers of microprocessors used by personal computers using the Windows operating systems. Further, despite its efforts to educate the marketplace to the contrary, the Company believes that many of its current and potential customers believe that the relatively slower MHz rating or clock speed of the microprocessors it utilizes in its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably to those utilized by Windows based systems and translates to slower overall system performance. There have been instances in recent years where the inability of the Companys suppliers to provide advanced G4 and G3 microprocessors with higher clock speeds in sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects on the Companys results of operations. The inability in the future of the Company to obtain microprocessors in sufficient quantities with competitive price/performance features could have an adverse impact on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company is dependent on manufacturing and logistics services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the United States. Many of the Companys products are manufactured in whole or in part by third party manufacturers. In addition, the Company has outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost of operations, they also reduce the Companys direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of the products manufactured, or the flexibility of the Company to respond to changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain at least initially responsible to the ultimate consumer for warranty service or in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could adversely affect the Companys future operating results and financial condition. Final assembly of products sold by the Company is conducted in the Companys manufacturing facilities in Sacramento, California, and Cork, Ireland, and by external vendors in Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the Peoples Republic of China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture of many of the components used in the Companys products and final assembly of all of the Companys portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod is performed by third party vendors in Taiwan. If for any reason manufacturing or logistics in any of these locations is disrupted by regional economic, business, environmental, political, or military conditions or events, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Companys products could experience quality problems that result in decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that may contain defects in design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications such as the Company sells often contains "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software. Defects may also occur in components and products the Company purchases from third parties that may be beyond its control. 38 There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware and software it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenues, loss of reputation, and significant expense to remedy. The Companys retail initiative requires a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Since May of 2001, the Company has opened 51 retail stores in the United States and anticipates opening more stores in calendar 2003. The Companys retail initiative has required substantial investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating leases commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from 5 to 12 years. The Company would incur substantial costs should it choose to terminate this initiative or close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, a relatively high proportion of the Retail segments costs are fixed because of depreciation on store constructions costs and lease expense. As a result, should the Retail segment experience a decline in sales for any reason, significant losses would result. Certain of the Companys stores have been intentionally designed and built to serve as high profile venues that function as vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment in equipment and leasehold improvements than the Companys typical retail stores. The Company has opened two such stores and has several others under development. Because of their location and size, these high profile stores also require the Company to enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared to those required for its more typical stores. Current leases on such locations have terms ranging from 5 to 10 years with total commitments per location over the lease terms ranging from $25 million to $50 million. Closure or poor performance of one of these high profile stores could have a particularly significant negative impact on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Many of the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have an adverse impact on its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique to retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond the Companys control, that could adversely affect the Retail segments future results, cause its actual results to differ from those currently expected, and or have an adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique to retail operations that could have an adverse impact on the Retail segment include, among other things, macro economic factors that have a negative impact on general retail activity; inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation; lack of consumer acceptance of the Companys retail approach; failure to attract new users to the Macintosh platform; inability to sell third party hardware and software products at adequate margins; failure to manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack of experience in managing retail operations; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value of Apple branded and third party retail inventory; and inability to obtain quality retail locations at reasonable cost. Unit sales of the Companys professionally oriented desktop systems have declined sharply over past two to three years negatively impacting net sales and gross margin. Unit sales of Power Macintosh systems fell 18% during 2002 as compared to 2001 and fell 35% in 2001 from 2000. Power Macintosh unit sales have fallen as a percentage of total Macintosh unit sales from 38% in 1999 to 25% in 2002. The Company believes that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having a pronounced negative impact on its professional and creative customers who are the primary users of such systems. The Company also believes that many of these customers continue to delay upgrades of their Power Macintosh systems due to the Companys ongoing transition to Mac OS X and in anticipation of certain software vendors transitioning their professionally oriented Macintosh software applications to run natively in Mac OS X. In addition to the negative impact on net sales, declining sales of Power Macintosh systems also have a negative effect on the Companys overall gross margin because Power Macintosh systems are generally higher priced and have higher individual gross margins than the 39 Companys other Macintosh systems. Continued deterioration in Power Macintosh unit sales will adversely affect the Companys future net sales and gross margin. If future unit sales of Power Macintosh systems fail to partially or fully recover, it will be difficult for the Company to improve its overall profitability. The Company faces increasing competition in the U.S. education market. Sales in the United States to both elementary and secondary schools, as well as for college and university customers, remains a core market for Apple. Net sales in these markets fell to 21% of the Companys total net sales in 2002 from 26% in 2001. This drop reflects declines in both net sales and Macintosh unit sales in these markets of 15% and 14%, respectively, in fiscal 2002 compared to 2001. These developments are consistent with industry data showing the Company losing market share in the U.S. education market in each of the last two fiscal years. Several competitors of the Company have either targeted or announced their intention to target the education market for personal computers. Although the Company has taken certain steps to strengthen its position in the education market, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase its share of the education market or maintain its existing share of that market. Failure to increase or maintain market share in the education market may have an adverse impact on the Companys operating results and financial condition. The Companys future operating performance is dependent on the performance of distributors and other resellers of the Companys products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. In addition, the Company also sells many of its products and resells certain third party products in most of its major markets directly to end users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world. The Company also sells its own products and certain third party products through its retail stores in the United States. Many of the Companys significant resellers operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by current economic conditions. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with the Companys distribution and retail channel partners. The Companys business and financial results could be adversely affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakened, if resellers within consumer channels were to cease distribution of the Companys products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Companys products caused resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Companys products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may be found in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10 K under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information is hereby incorporated by reference. The Companys business is subject to the risks of international operations. A large portion of the Companys revenue is derived from its international operations. As a result, the Companys operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. Historically, the Companys primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts of Asia and non dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses in foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Companys products and the U.S. dollar value of the Companys foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening in these and other foreign currencies can increase the cost to the Company of product components, negatively affecting the Companys results of operations. 40 Margins on sales of Apple products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Further information related to the Companys global market risks may be found in Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10 K under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 K at Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which information is hereby incorporated by reference. The Companys future performance is dependent upon support from third party software developers. The Company believes that decisions by customers to purchase the Companys personal computers, as opposed to Windows based systems, are often based on the availability of third party software for particular applications such as Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability of third party application software for the Companys hardware products depends in part on third party developers perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Companys products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis is based on factors such as the perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may be generated, acceptance by customers of Mac OS X, and the costs of developing such software products. To the extent the Companys financial losses in prior years and the minority market share held by the Company in the personal computer market, as well as the Companys decision to end its Mac OS licensing program, have caused software developers to question the Companys prospects in the personal computer market, developers could be less inclined to develop new application software or upgrade existing software for the Companys products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. In addition, past and future development by the Company of its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision of software developers to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive software for the Companys products. Moreover, there can be no assurance software developers will continue to develop software for Mac OS X, the Companys new operating system, on a timely basis or at all. In August 1997, the Company and Microsoft Corporation entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. In addition, for a period of five years through August 2002, and subject to certain limitations related to the number of Macintosh computers sold by the Company, Microsoft was required to make versions of its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac OS. Although Microsoft has released Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer for Mac OS X, Microsoft is not obligated to produce future versions of its products subsequent to August 2002. While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue to be beneficial to the Company and to its efforts to increase the installed base for the Mac OS, the Company does compete directly with Microsoft in a number of key areas. Accordingly, Microsofts interest in producing application software for the Mac OS following expiration of the agreements may be influenced by Microsofts perception of its interests as the vendor of the Windows operating system. Discontinuance of Microsoft Office and other Microsoft products for the Macintosh platform would have an adverse effect on the Companys net sales and results of operations. The Companys business relies on access to patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Companys future results could be adversely affected if it is alleged or found to have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. Many of the Companys products are designed to include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. However, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available or available on acceptable terms. 41 Because of technological changes in the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible certain components of the Companys products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents of others. The Company has from time to time been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, result in significant expenses, and cause the diversion of management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are in various stages of evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements in certain of these cases. However, no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. In the event there is a temporary or permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain of its products or a successful claim of infringement against the Company requiring it to pay royalties to a third party, the Companys future operating results and financial condition could be adversely effected. Information regarding claims and potential litigation involving the Company related to alleged patent infringement and other matters is set forth in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10 K. In the opinion of management, the Company does not have a potential liability for damages or royalties from any current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others that would have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, or financial condition. However, the results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail to prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others described in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10 K or should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. The Company expects its quarterly revenues and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons. The Companys profit margins vary among its products, its geographic markets, and its distribution channels. As a result, the overall profitability of the Company in any given period will depend, in part, on the product, geographic, and channel mix reflected in that periods net sales. The typical concentration of net sales in the third month of the Companys fiscal quarters can adversely affect the Companys business and operating results. The Company generally sells more products during the third month of each quarter than it does during either of the first two months, a pattern typical in the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure on the Companys internal infrastructure during the third month of a quarter and may adversely impact the Companys ability to predict its financial results accurately. Developments late in a quarter, such as lower than anticipated demand for the Companys products, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Companys key logistics or components suppliers, can have significant adverse impacts on the Company and its results of operations and financial condition. The Companys success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. Much of the future success of the Company depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including those in technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where the majority of the Companys employees are located. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully attract and retain the key personnel it needs. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in the Companys stock price may adversely affect its ability to retain key employees. As of September 28, 2002, a substantial majority of the Companys outstanding employee stock options were out of the money. The Company is subject to risks associated with the availability and cost of insurance. The Company has observed rapidly changing conditions in the insurance markets relating to nearly all areas of traditional corporate insurance. Such conditions have resulted in higher premium costs, higher policy deductibles, and lower coverage limits. For some risks, because of cost and or availability, the 42 Company does not have insurance coverage. For these reasons, the Company is retaining a greater portion of its insurable risks than it has in the past at relatively greater cost. The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivables. This risk is heightened as economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third party computer resellers and retailers and directly to certain educational institutions and commercial customers. A substantial majority of the Companys outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company also has non trade receivables from certain of its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale by the Company of raw material components to these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. While the Company has procedures in place to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non trade receivables, there can be assurance that such procedures will be effective in limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, if the global economy and regional economies fail to improve or continue to deteriorate, it becomes more likely that the Company will incur a material loss or losses as a result of the weakening financial condition of one or more of its customers or manufacturing vendors. The market value of the Companys non current debt and equity investments is subject to significant volatility. The Company holds minority investments in several public companies with a combined fair market value of approximately $39 million as of September 28, 2002. These investments are in publicly traded companies whose share prices are subject to significant volatility. The Company has categorized its investments in these companies as available for sale requiring the investments be carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company recognizes an impairment charge to earnings when it is judged an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. The Company has recognized material impairment charges related to its non current debt and equity investments twice in the last two fiscal years. The Company is subject to risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing of products in certain states and countries may subject the Company to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability to return to the Company product at the end of its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling with the Company. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects in the future based on the nature of its operations and the thrust of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. The parliament of the European Union is working on finalizing the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (the Directive). The Directive makes producers of electrical goods, including personal computers, financially responsible for the collection, recycling, and safe disposal of past and future products. The Directive must now be approved and implemented by individual European Union governments by June 2004, while the producers financial obligations are scheduled to start June 2005. The Companys potential liability resulting from the Directive related to past sales of its products and expenses associated with future sales of its product may be substantial. However, because it is likely that specific laws, regulations, and enforcement policies will vary significantly between individual European member states, it is not currently possible to estimate the Companys existing liability or future expenses resulting from the Directive. As the European Union and its individual member states clarify specific requirements and policies with respect to the Directive, the Company will continue to assess its potential financial impact. Similar legislation may be enacted in other geographies, including federal and state legislation in the United States, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. 43 Business interruptions could adversely affect the Companys future operating results. The Companys major business operations are subject to interruption by earthquake, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, and other events beyond its control. The majority of the Companys research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major components suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake related losses. The Companys operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or manmade disaster. Unanticipated changes in the Companys tax rates could affect its future results. The Companys future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of the Company deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. The Companys stock price may be volatile. The Companys stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and as a result of announcements by the Company and its competitors. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and investors concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial reporting and integrity of financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price of the Companys common stock in the future. 44  Item 7A. Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management To ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, as well as to monitor the risks and opportunities of the non hedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap and option positions both on a stand alone basis and in conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures, respectively, from both an accounting and an economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons of the Companys risk management activities and the anticipatory nature of the exposures intended to hedge, there can be no assurance the aforementioned programs will offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements in either foreign exchange or interest rates. In addition, the timing of the accounting for recognition of gains and losses related to mark to market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing of gains and losses related to the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Companys operating results and financial position. The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as of October 1, 2000. SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. Management does not believe that ongoing application of SFAS No. 133 will significantly alter the Companys hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility of other income and expense and other comprehensive income. Interest Rate Risk While the Company is exposed to interest rate fluctuations in many of the worlds leading industrialized countries, the Companys interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in the general level of U.S. interest rates. In this regard, changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on the Companys cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments as well as costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Companys fixed income investment policy and strategy is to ensure the preservation of capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return in light of the current credit and interest rate environment. The Company benchmarks its performance by utilizing external money managers to manage a small portion of the aggregate investment portfolio. The external managers adhere to the Companys investment policies and also provide occasional research and market information that supplements internal research used to make credit decisions in the investment process. During 1994, the Company issued $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.5% unsecured notes in a public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold at 99.925% of par, for an effective yield to maturity of 6.51%. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature on February 15, 2004. The Companys exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Companys investment portfolio and long term debt obligations and related derivative financial instruments. The Company places its short term investments in highly liquid securities issued by high credit quality issuers and, by policy, limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The Companys general policy is to limit the risk of principal loss and ensure the safety of invested funds by limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less are classified as cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified as short term investments. As of September 28, 2002, $1.087 billion of the Companys investment portfolio classified as short term investments was invested in U.S. Agency and corporate debt securities with maturities ranging from 1 to 5 years. As of September 29, 2001, $313 million of the Companys investment portfolio classified as short term investments was in U.S. agency securities with underlying maturities ranging from 1 to 4 years. The remainder all had underlying maturities between 3 and 12 months. Due to liquidity needs, or in anticipation of credit deterioration, or for the purpose of duration management of the Companys 45 investment portfolio, the Company may sell investments prior to their stated maturities. As a result of such activity, the Company recognized net gains of $7 million in 2002 and $1 million in 2001. In order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with the Companys investment portfolio, the Company performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact that a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of September 28, 2002, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in a $37.7 million decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. As of September 29, 2001, a similar 100 basis point shift in the yield curve would have resulted in a $17.8 million decline in fair value. Such losses would only be realized if the Company sold the investments prior to maturity. Except in instances noted above, the Companys policy is to hold investments to maturity. The Company sometimes enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions in order to better match the Companys floating rate interest income on its cash equivalents and short term investments with its fixed rate interest expense on its long term debt, and or to diversify a portion of the Companys exposure away from fluctuations in short term U.S. interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended to reduce the cost of the interest rate risk management program. During the last two years, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions in order to better match the Companys floating rate interest income on its cash equivalents and short term investments with its fixed rate interest expense on its long term debt, and or to diversify a portion of the Companys exposure away from fluctuations in short term U.S. interest rates. The interest rate swaps, which qualified as accounting hedges, generally required the Company to pay a floating interest rate based on the three or six month U.S. dollar LIBOR and receive a fixed rate of interest without exchanges of the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Companys fixed rate 10 year debt to floating rate debt and convert a portion of the floating rate investments to fixed rate. Due to prevailing market interest rates, during 2002 the Company entered into and then subsequently closed out debt swap positions realizing a gain of $6 million. During 2001 the Company closed out all of its then existing debt swap positions realizing a gain of $17 million. Both the gains in 2001 and 2002 were deferred, recognized in long term debt and are being amortized to other income and expense over the remaining life of the debt. At certain times in the past, the Company has also entered into interest rate contracts that are intended to reduce the cost of the interest rate risk management program. The Company does not hold or transact in such financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. The Companys asset swaps did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and were recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with associated gains and losses recorded in interest and other income. Interest rate asset swaps outstanding as of September 30, 2000, had a weighted average receive rate of 5.50% and a weighted average pay rate of 6.66%. The unrealized loss on these assets swaps as of September 30, 2000, of $5.7 million was deferred and then recognized in income in 2001 as part of the SFAS No. 133 transition adjustment effective on October 1, 2000. The Company closed out all of its existing interest rate asset swaps during 2001 realizing a gain of $1.1 million. Foreign Currency Risk Overall, the Company is a net receiver of currencies other than the U.S. dollar and, as such, benefits from a weaker dollar and is adversely affected by a stronger dollar relative to major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may negatively affect the Companys net sales and gross margins as expressed in U.S. dollars. There is also a risk that the Company will have to adjust local currency product pricing within the time frame of our hedged positions due to competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. 46 The Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Companys practice is to hedge a majority of its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate of hedging instruments. The Company also enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated by the re measurement of certain recorded assets and liabilities denominated in non functional currencies of its foreign subsidiaries. In order to provide a meaningful assessment of the foreign currency risk associated with certain of the Companys foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed a sensitivity analysis using a value at risk (VAR) model to assess the potential impact of fluctuations in exchange rates. The VAR model consisted of using a Monte Carlo simulation to generate 3000 random market price paths. The value at risk is the maximum expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, to the Companys foreign exchange portfolio due to adverse movements in rates. The VAR model is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based on the results of the model, the Company estimates with 95% confidence a maximum one day loss in fair value of $3.8 million as of September 28, 2002 compared to a maximum one day loss of $6.8 million as of September 29, 2001. Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred on those instruments are generally offset by increases in the fair value of the underlying exposures. Actual gains and losses in the future associated with the Companys investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of September 28, 2002 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes in the timing and amount of interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Companys actual exposures and positions. 47   
