Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section and other parts of this Form 10 K contain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward looking statements can also be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "plans," "predicts," and similar terms. Forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Companys actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the subsection entitled "Risk Factors" above. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. All information presented herein is based on the Companys fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references in this report to particular years or quarters refer to the Companys fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters of those fiscal years. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers, portable digital music players, and mobile communication devices and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Companys products and services include the Mac&reg; line of desktop and portable computers, the iPod line of portable digital music players, iPhone, Apple TV, Xserve&reg;, and Xserve RAID, a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the Mac OS&reg; X operating system, third party digital content through the iTunes Store, and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third party wholesalers, resellers, and value added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third party Mac, iPod and iPhone compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. Further discussion of the Companys products may be found in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10 K under the heading "Business." The Company believes that for both professionals and consumers the personal computer has become the center of an evolving digital lifestyle by integrating with and enhancing the utility of advanced digital devices such as the Companys iPods, iPhones, digital video and still cameras, televisions, personal digital assistants, and other digital devices. The attributes of the personal computer that enable this functionality include a high quality user interface, easy access to relatively inexpensive data storage, the ability to run complex applications, and the ability to connect easily to a wide variety of other digital devices and to the Internet. The Company is the only participant in the personal computer industry that controls the design and development of the entire personal computer from the hardware and operating system to sophisticated applications. This, along with its products creative industrial designs, intuitive ease of use, and built in graphics, multimedia and networking capabilities, uniquely positions the Company to offer innovative integrated digital lifestyle solutions. The Companys business strategy leverages its ability, through the design and development of its own operating system, hardware, and many software applications and technologies, to bring to its customers around the world compelling new products and solutions with superior ease of use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company participates in several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Mac line of computers, consumer electronics with its iPod product family of portable digital music players, and distribution of third party digital content through its online iTunes Store. With the introduction of iPhone, the Company has also begun to compete with mobile communication device companies that have substantial experience and technological and financial resources. While the Company is widely recognized as a leading innovator in the personal computer and consumer electronics markets as well as a leader in the emerging market for distribution of digital content, these markets are highly competitive and subject to 36 aggressive pricing. To remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment in research and development ("R&D") and marketing and advertising is necessary to maintain or expand its position in the markets where it competes. The Companys R&D spending is focused on further developing its existing line of personal computers, operating systems, application software, and portable digital music players; developing new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing in new product areas such as iPhone and wireless technologies. The Company also believes increased investment in marketing and advertising programs is critical to increasing product and brand awareness. The Company utilizes a variety of direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available only on Mac computers, and demonstrate the compatibility of the Mac with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes providing a high quality sales and after sales support experience is critical to attracting and retaining customers. To ensure a high quality buying experience for its products in which service and education are emphasized, the Company has expanded and improved its distribution capabilities by opening its own retail stores in the U.S. and internationally. The Company had 197 stores open as of September 29, 2007. The Company also staffs selected third party stores with the Companys own employees to improve the buying experience through reseller channels. The Company has deployed Apple employees and contractors in reseller locations around the world including the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan, Asia, Latin America and Australia. The Company also sells to customers directly through its online stores around the world. To improve access to the iPod product family, the Company has significantly expanded the number of distribution points where iPods are sold. iPods can be purchased in certain department stores, member only warehouse stores, large retail chains, and specialty retail stores, as well as through the channels for Mac distribution listed above. The Company began shipping iPhone in the U.S. on June 29, 2007, in the U.K. and Germany on November 9, 2007 and expects to begin shipping the iPhone in France on November 29, 2007. AT&T Mobility LLC ("AT&T"), O2 Limited ("O2"), T Mobile International AG & Co. KG ("T Mobile"), and France Telecom ("Orange") are the exclusive cellular network carriers for iPhone in the U.S., U.K., Germany, and France, respectively. iPhone is distributed through the Company and its exclusive cellular network carriers distribution channels. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10 K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may be material. Management believes the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, stock based compensation, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these critical policies because they are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and operating results, and they require management to make judgments 37 and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Companys senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily of revenue from the sale of hardware, software, music products, digital content, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue for software products (operating system software and applications software), or any product that is considered to be software related in accordance with the guidance in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") No. 03 5, Applicability of AICPA Statement of Position 97 2 to Non software Deliverables in an Arrangement Containing More Than Incidental Software, (e.g., Mac computers, iPod portable digital music players and iPhone) pursuant to American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement of Position ("SOP") No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended. For products that are not software or software related, (e.g., digital content sold on the iTunes Store and certain Mac, iPod and iPhone supplies and accessories) the Company recognizes revenue pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 104, Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. Product is considered delivered to the customer once it has been shipped, and title and risk of loss have been transferred. For most of the Companys product sales, these criteria are met at the time the product is shipped. For online sales to individuals, for some sales to education customers in the U.S., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains a portion of the risk of loss on these sales during transit. If at the outset of an arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee is not, or is presumed not to be, fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred and subsequently recognized as amounts become due and payable and all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met. During 2007, the Company began shipping Apple TV and iPhone. For both Apple TV and iPhone, the Company indicated it may provide future unspecified features and additional software products free of charge to customers. Therefore, sales of Apple TV and iPhone handsets are recognized under subscription accounting in accordance with SOP No. 97 2. The Company recognizes the associated revenue and cost of goods sold on a straight line basis over the currently estimated 24 month economic lives of these products with any loss recognized at the time of sale. Costs incurred by the Company for engineering, sales, marketing and warranty are expensed as incurred. The Company records reductions to revenue for estimated commitments related to price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates, and other sales programs and volume based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net of the estimated amount to be refunded, provided the refund amount can be reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. If refunds cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is not recognized until reliable estimates can be made or the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost of these programs is recognized at the later of the date at which the Company has sold the product or the date at which the program is offered. The Company also records reductions to revenue for expected future product returns based on the Companys historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result in additional reductions to revenue at the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular incentive programs. If a greater than estimated proportion of customers redeem such incentives, the Company 38 would be required to record additional reductions to revenue, which would have a negative impact on the Companys results of operations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third party distributors and resellers and directly to certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral in certain instances to limit credit risk. In addition, when possible the Company does attempt to limit credit risk on trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers in Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia by arranging with third party financing companies to provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs to the Companys direct customers. These credit financing arrangements are directly between the third party financing company and the end customer. As such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse or credit risk sharing related to any of these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral, third party flooring arrangements, or credit insurance are outstanding with the Companys distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on managements assessment of the collectibility of specific customer accounts and includes consideration of the credit worthiness and financial condition of those specific customers. The Company records an allowance to reduce the specific receivables to the amount that is reasonably believed to be collectible. The Company also records an allowance for all other trade receivables based on multiple factors including historical experience with bad debt, the general economic environment, the financial condition of the Companys distribution channels, and the aging of such receivables. If there is a deterioration of a major customers financial condition, if the Company becomes aware of additional information related to the credit worthiness of a major customer, or if future actual default rates on trade receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have to adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings in the period the adjustments were made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments. The Company records a write down for inventories of components and products, including third party products held for resale, which have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value. The Company performs a detailed review of inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communications industries are subject to a rapid and unpredictable pace of product and component obsolescence and demand changes. If future demand or market conditions for the Companys products are less favorable than forecasted or if unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility of component inventory, the Company may be required to record additional write downs which would negatively affect gross margins in the period when the write downs were recorded. The Company accrues reserves for estimated cancellation fees related to component orders that have been cancelled or are expected to be cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Companys requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. If there is an abrupt and substantial decline in demand for one or more of the Companys products or an unanticipated change in technological requirements for any of the Companys products, the Company may be required to record additional reserves for cancellation fees that would negatively affect gross margins in the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. 39  Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost for hardware and software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost per claim, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Companys typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates to assess the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjusts the amounts as necessary. For products accounted for under subscription accounting pursuant to SOP No. 97 2, the Company recognizes warranty expense as incurred. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required and could negatively affect the Companys results of operations. The Company periodically provides updates to its applications and system software to maintain the softwares compliance with specifications. The estimated cost to develop such updates is accounted for as warranty cost that is recognized at the time related software revenue is recognized. Factors considered in determining appropriate accruals related to such updates include the number of units delivered, the number of updates expected to occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost of the resources necessary to develop these updates. Stock Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock based compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123 (revised 2004) ("SFAS No. 123R"), Share Based Payment. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 123R, stock based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the awards fair value as calculated by the Black Scholes Merton ("BSM") option pricing model and is recognized as expense ratably on a straight line basis over the requisite service period. The BSM model requires various judgmental assumptions including expected volatility, forfeiture rates, and expected option life. If any of the assumptions used in the BSM model change significantly, stock based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. Income Taxes The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. In the event that all or part of the net deferred tax assets are determined not to be realizable in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies As discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10 K under the heading "Legal Proceedings" and in Note 8 "Commitments and Contingencies" in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is 40 subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Company records a contingent liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. There is significant judgment required in both the probability determination and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. In managements opinion, the Company does not have a potential liability related to any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or operating results. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject to significant uncertainty. Should the Company fail to prevail in any of these legal matters or should several of these legal matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. 41 Net Sales Fiscal years 2007 and 2005 spanned 52 weeks while fiscal year 2006 spanned 53 weeks. This additional week is added to the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Net sales and Mac unit sales by operating segment and net sales and unit sales by product follow (net sales in millions and unit sales in thousands): September 29, 2007 Change September 30, 2006 Change September 24, 2005 Net Sales by Operating Segment (a): Americas net sales $ 11,596 23 % $ 9,415 41 % $ 6,658 Europe net sales 5,460 33 % 4,096 33 % 3,073 Japan net sales 1,082 (11 )% 1,211 31 % 924 Retail net sales 4,115 27 % 3,246 42 % 2,278 Other Segments net sales (b) 1,753 30 % 1,347 35 % 998 Total net sales $ 24,006 24 % $ 19,315 39 % $ 13,931 Unit Sales by Operating Segment: Americas Mac unit sales 3,019 24 % 2,432 11 % 2,184 Europe Mac unit sales 1,816 35 % 1,346 18 % 1,138 Japan Mac unit sales 302 (1 )% 304 (3 )% 313 Retail Mac unit sales 1,386 56 % 886 45 % 609 Other Segments Mac unit sales (b) 528 58 % 335 16 % 290 Total Mac unit sales 7,051 33 % 5,303 17 % 4,534 Net Sales by Product: Desktops (c) $ 4,020 21 % $ 3,319 (3 )% $ 3,436 Portables (d) 6,294 55 % 4,056 43 % 2,839 Total Mac net sales 10,314 40 % 7,375 18 % 6,275 iPod 8,305 8 % 7,676 69 % 4,540 Other music related products and services (e) 2,496 32 % 1,885 110 % 899 iPhone and related products and services (f) 123 NM NM Peripherals and other hardware (g) 1,260 15 % 1,100 (2 )% 1,126 Software, service, and other sales (h) 1,508 18 % 1,279 17 % 1,091 Total net sales $ 24,006 24 % $ 19,315 39 % $ 13,931 Unit Sales by Product: Desktops (c) 2,714 12 % 2,434 (3 )% 2,520 Portables (d) 4,337 51 % 2,869 42 % 2,014 Total Mac unit sales 7,051 33 % 5,303 17 % 4,534 Net sales per Mac unit sold (i) $ 1,463 5 % $ 1,391 1 % $ 1,384 iPod unit sales 51,630 31 % 39,409 75 % 22,497 Net sales per iPod unit sold (j) $ 161 (17 )% $ 195 (3 )% $ 202 iPhone unit sales 1,389 NM NM Notes: (a)During 2007, the Company revised the way it measures the Retail Segments operating results to a manner that is generally consistent with the Companys other operating segments. Prior period results have been reclassified to reflect this change to the Retail Segments operating results along with the corresponding offsets to the other operating segments. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at Note 9, "Segment Information and Geographic Data." (b)Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker. (c)Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro, Power Mac, and Xserve product lines. (d)Includes MacBook, iBook, MacBook Pro, and PowerBook product lines. (e)Consists of iTunes Store sales, iPod services, and Apple branded and third party iPod accessories. (f)Derived from handset sales, carrier agreements, and Apple branded and third party iPhone accessories. (g)Includes sales of Apple branded and third party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. (h)Includes sales of Apple branded operating system, application software, third party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. (i)Derived by dividing total Mac net sales by total Mac unit sales. (j)Derived by dividing total iPod net sales by total iPod unit sales. NM Not Meaningful 42 Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Net sales during 2007 increased 24% or $4.7 billion from 2006 even though the fiscal year of 2007 spanned 52 weeks while the fiscal year of 2006 spanned 53 weeks. Several factors contributed to these increases including the following: Mac net sales increased $3 billion or 40% during 2007 compared to 2006, while Mac unit sales increased by 1.75 million units or 33%. The 33% Mac unit sales growth rate is significantly greater than the estimated growth rate of the overall personal computer industry during that timeframe. Unit sales of the Companys portable products accounted for 62% of the Companys personal computer shipments in 2007, up from 54% in 2006. Net sales and unit sales of the Companys portable products increased 55% and 51%, respectively, during 2007 compared to 2006. This growth was due to strong demand for the MacBook, which increased in each of the Companys operating segments, as well as the MacBook Pro, which increased in each operating segment except Japan. Mac desktop net sales and unit sales increased by 21% and 12%, respectively, during 2007 due to stronger sales of the iMac in each of the Companys operating segments. The Mac desktop net sales growth was greater than the unit sales growth primarily due to a shift in desktop product mix away from the lower price Mac Mini and discontinued eMac and toward the iMac. Net sales of iPods increased $629 million or 8% during 2007 compared to 2006. Unit sales of iPods increased 31% compared to 2006. The iPod growth was primarily driven by increased sales of the iPod shuffle and iPod nano particularly in international markets. iPod unit sales growth was significantly greater than iPod net sales due to a shift in overall iPod product mix, as well as due to lower selling prices for the iPod classic, iPod nano and iPod shuffle in 2007 compared to 2006. Net sales of iPhone and related products and services were $123 million in 2007. iPhone net sales include the portion of iPhone handset revenue recognized in accordance with subscription accounting over the products 24 month estimated economic life, as well as sales of iPhone accessory products and revenue from carrier agreements. iPhone unit sales were 1.39 million in 2007. Net sales of other music related products and services increased $611 million or 32% during 2007 compared to 2006 due to increased net sales from the iTunes Store. The Company believes this growth was the result of heightened consumer interest in downloading digital content and the expansion of third party audio and video content available for sale via the iTunes Store. Net sales of peripherals and other hardware increased $160 million or 15% compared to 2006 due to an increase in wireless networking products and other hardware accessories, including printers and scanners, which was partially offset by a decrease in net sales of displays. Net sales of software, service, and other sales rose $229 million or 18% during 2007 compared to 2006. This growth was primarily attributable to increased net sales of AppleCare Protection Plan ("APP") extended service and support contracts and increased sales of Apple branded and third party developers software products. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Net sales during 2006 increased 39% or $5.4 billion from 2005. This increase was due in part to the fact that 2006 spanned 53 weeks while 2005 spanned 52 weeks. Several other factors contributed to these increases including the following: Net sales of iPods increased $3.1 billion or 69% during 2006 compared to 2005. Unit sales of iPods totaled 39.4 million in 2006, which represents an increase of 75% from the 22.5 million iPod units sold in 2005. Strong iPod sales during 2006 reflected significant sales of both the hard drive based iPod that supports video, first introduced in October of 2005 and the iPod nano, introduced in September 2005, as well as continued expansion of iPod distribution points. During 2006, the net 43 sales per iPod unit sold decreased by 3% compared to 2005 primarily due to an overall decrease in average selling prices for all iPods as well as a shift in product mix to the iPod nano. Mac net sales increased $1.1 billion or 18% during 2006 compared to 2005. Mac unit sales increased by 769,000 units or 17% during 2006 compared to 2005. These increases were mainly due to strong demand for the Intel based MacBook and MacBook Pro systems and reflect a shift in product mix to portable products in all of the Companys operating segments. Net sales and unit sales of the Companys portable products increased 43% and 42%, respectively, during 2006 compared to 2005. Mac desktop net sales and unit sales both decreased by 3% during 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in sales of the Companys Mac desktops was due to declines in sales of the Companys professional oriented desktop products. The Company believes the decline in the Companys professional oriented desktop products was due to customers delaying purchases of such products in anticipation of the release of the Intel based Mac Pro, which did not begin shipping until August 2006, and updated software applications capable of running on Intel based Mac computers, and the trend toward portable computers. A slight increase of 1% during 2006 in net sales per Mac unit sold was due to a shift in mix to higher priced portable products, partially offset by price reductions on certain Mac systems. Other music related products and services consists of sales associated with the iTunes Store and iPod services and accessories. Net sales of other music related products and services increased $986 million or 110% during 2006 compared to 2005. The increase was primarily due to increased net sales from the iTunes Store and Apple branded and third party iPod accessories and services. The increase in sales from the iTunes Store stemmed from significant growth in U.S. sales and the opening of the iTunes Store in Japan during August 2005 and Australia during October 2005. The increased sales from the iTunes Store were also attributable to the availability of videos, television shows, and feature length movie downloads. Net sales of software, service, and other sales increased $188 million or 17% during 2006 compared to 2005. The growth was primarily attributable to increased net sales of AppleCare Protection Plan ("APP") extended service and support contracts and application software, partially offset by a decrease in sales of Mac OS X. Mac OS X sales were particularly high in 2005 due to the release of Mac OS X Tiger in April 2005. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Companys net sales during 2006 were negatively impacted by the following: Net sales of peripherals and other hardware declined $26 million or 2% compared to 2005 primarily due to price decreases and a decrease in net sales of displays relating to a shift in mix from desktop to portable systems. The decrease in net sales of displays for 2006 is consistent with the overall decrease in unit sales of Mac professional desktop systems. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Companys reportable operating segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments do not include activities related to the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple owned retail stores in the U.S., Canada, Japan, the U.K. and Italy. Each reportable geographic operating segment and the Retail operating segment provide similar hardware and software products and similar services. During 2007, the Company revised the way it measures the Retail Segments operating results to a manner that is generally consistent with the Companys other operating segments. Prior period results have been reclassified to reflect this change to the Retail Segments operating results along with the corresponding offsets to the other operating segments. Further information regarding the Companys operating segments may be found in Note 9, 44 "Segment Information and Geographic Data" in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K. Americas During 2007, net sales in the Americas segment increased $2.2 billion, or 23%, compared to 2006. The main sources of this growth were Mac portable products, iMacs, iPods, and the sales of third party content from the iTunes Store. Sales of Mac portable products increased due to the popularity of the MacBook, introduced in May 2006 and updated in May 2007, as well as the MacBook Pro, introduced in January 2006 and updated in June 2007. Sales of iMacs grew due to a shift in desktop product mix away from the Mac mini and discontinued eMac as well as the strong reception of the new iMac introduced in August 2007. Sales of iPods grew due to increased demand for the iPod nano and iPod shuffle and the introduction of the iPod touch in September 2007. The Company believes that the growth in iTunes Store sales was the result of heightened consumer interest in downloading digital content and the expansion of third party audio and video content available for sale via the iTunes Store. During 2007, the Americas segment represented 48% of the Companys total net sales as compared to 49% in the same period of 2006. During 2007, U.S. education channel net sales and Mac unit sales increased by 14% and 18%, respectively, compared to 2006. Net sales from the higher education market grew 17% during 2007 compared to 2006, while net sales in the K 12 market grew 10% during the same period. During 2006, net sales in the Americas segment increased $2.8 billion, or 41%, compared to 2005. The primary contributors to this increase were iPods, other music related products and services, Mac portable systems, and APP. Sales of iPods increased primarily due to the introduction of the updated iPod with video playing capabilities in October 2005 (now referred to as iPod classic) and the iPod nano during September 2005. The increase in other music related products and services was due to increases in sales of Apple branded and third party iPod accessories and sales from the iTunes Store. The increase in sales of Mac portable systems in the Americas was due to strong sales of the MacBook and MacBook Pro during 2006. The overall increase in net sales was partially offset by a decline in net sales of desktops, displays, and Mac OS X. The decrease in desktop products and displays net sales reflects the overall shift in product mix toward portable Mac systems. Mac OS X sales decreased from 2005 since the Company had not released a new version of Mac OS X since Tiger began shipping in April 2005. During 2006, the Americas segment represented 49% of the Companys total net sales as compared to 48% in the same period of 2005. Europe Europe segment net sales increased $1.4 billion or 33% during 2007 compared to 2006. Consistent with the Americas segment, the primary drivers of this growth were Mac portable products, iMacs, iPods, and the sales of third party content from the iTunes Store. Sales of Mac portable products increased due to the popularity of both the MacBook and MacBook Pro. Sales of iMacs grew due to a shift in desktop product mix away from the Mac mini and discontinued eMac as well as the strong reception of the new iMac introduced in August 2007. Sales of iPods grew primarily due to increased demand for the iPod nano and iPod shuffle. The Company believes that the growth in iTunes Store sales was the result of heightened consumer interest in downloading digital content and the expansion of third party audio and video content available for sale via the iTunes Store. Europe segment net sales increased $1.0 billion or 33% during 2006 compared to 2005. Consistent with the Americas segment, these increases were a result of strong growth in iPod sales, other music related products and services, and Mac portable systems. Sales of iPods increased primarily due to the introduction of the updated iPod with video playing capabilities in October 2005 and the iPod nano during September 2005. The increase in other music related products and services was due to increases in sales of Apple branded and third party iPod accessories and sales from the iTunes Store. The increase in sales of portable systems in Europe was due to strong sales of the MacBook and MacBook Pro that were introduced during 2006. In addition, Europe also reported increased sales in APP related to the increase in Mac unit sales. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in desktop and Mac OS X net sales 45 during 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease in desktop net sales was due to the shift in product mix toward portable Mac systems. Mac OS X sales have decreased from 2005 since the Company has not released a new version of Mac OS X since Tiger began shipping in April 2005. Japan Japans net sales declined by $129 million or 11% in 2007 compared to 2006. Total Mac unit sales in Japan declined 1% during 2007. The decrease in the Japan segments overall net sales was primarily attributable to decreases in iPod and Mac desktop sales, partially offset by an increase in revenue from MacBooks and sales of third party content from the iTunes Store. The decline in net sales and Mac unit sales is partially attributable to Japans declining consumer PC market, and the iPod sales decline is primarily due to lower average selling prices. The Company is continuing to evaluate ways to improve the future results of its Japan segment. Japans net sales increased $287 million or 31% during 2006 compared to 2005. The Japan segment experienced increased net sales in iPods, Mac portable products, and other music related products and services. Consistent with the Companys other segments, Japan experienced increases in sales of iPods due to the introduction of the iPod with video playing capabilities (now referred to as the iPod classic) and the iPod nano in October and September of 2005, respectively. Japan also experienced strong sales of the Intel based MacBook and increased sales from the iTunes Store. These increases were partially offset by decreases in net sales of Mac desktop products, displays, and Mac OS X. The decreases in desktop products and displays reflect the overall shift in product mix toward portable Mac systems. Mac OS X sales have decreased from 2005 since the Company had not released a new version of Mac OS X since Tiger began shipping in April 2005. Total Mac unit sales during 2006 remained relatively flat compared to 2005. Retail The Company opened 32 new retail stores during 2007, including a total of 5 international stores in the U.K. and Italy, bringing the total number of open stores to 197 as of September 29, 2007. This compares to 165 open stores as of September 30, 2006 and 124 open stores as of September 24, 2005. The Retail segments net sales increased by 27% to $4.1 billion during 2007 compared to 2006. Retail segment Mac unit sales increased 56% during 2007 as compared to 2006. With an average of 178 stores open during 2007, average revenue per store was $23.1 million, compared to $22.9 million in 2006 and $21.7 million in 2005. The current year increase in Retail segment net sales was primarily due to stronger sales of Mac portable products, iMacs, accessories and services. The increase was partially offset primarily by lower net sales of iPods and other music related products due to the expanded availability of those products through third party resellers. The Retail segments net sales increased by 42% to $3.3 billion during 2006 compared to 2005. Retail segment Mac unit sales increased 45% during 2006 compared to 2005. The current year increase was primarily due to strong sales of Mac portable and desktop products, iPods, and other music related products and services. Sales of iPods increased primarily due to the introduction of the updated iPod with video playing capabilities in October 2005 and the iPod nano during September 2005. The increase in other music related products and services was due to increased sales of Apple branded and third party iPod accessories. Mac portable and desktop sales increased due to strong sales of the Intel based MacBook, MacBook Pro, and iMac. As measured by the Companys operating segment reporting, the Retail segment reported operating income of $875 million during 2007 as compared to operating income of $600 million and $396 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. This improvement in 2007 was primarily attributable to an increase in the Companys overall gross margin percentage. Expansion of the Retail segment has required and will continue to require a substantial investment in fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. 46 Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment were $294 million in 2007, bringing the total capital asset purchases since inception of the Retail segment to $1.0 billion. As of September 29, 2007, the Retail segment had approximately 7,900 employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities of $1.1 billion. The Company would incur substantial costs if it were to close multiple retail stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. Other Segments The Companys Other Segments, which consists of its Asia Pacific and FileMaker operations, experienced an increase in net sales of $406 million, or 30% during 2007 compared to 2006. This increase related primarily to a 58% increase in sales of Mac portable products and strong iPod sales in the Companys Asia Pacific region. During 2006, net sales in Other Segments increased 35% compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in sales of iPod and Mac portable products. Strong sales growth was a result of the introduction of the updated iPods featuring video playing capabilities and the new Intel based Mac portable products that translated to a 16% increase in Mac unit sales during 2006 compared to 2005. Gross Margin Gross margin for each of the last three fiscal years are as follows (in millions, except gross margin percentages): September 29, 2007 September 30, 2006 September 24, 2005 Net sales $ 24,006 $ 19,315 $ 13,931 Cost of sales 15,852 13,717 9,889 Gross margin $ 8,154 $ 5,598 $ 4,042 Gross margin percentage 34.0 % 29.0 % 29.0 % Gross margin percentage of 34.0% in 2007 increased significantly from 29.0% in 2006. The primary drivers of this increase were more favorable costs on certain commodity components, including NAND flash memory and DRAM memory, higher overall revenue that provided for more leverage on fixed production costs and a higher percentage of revenue from the Companys direct sales channels. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margins of the personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries will be subject to pressure due to price competition. The Company expects gross margin percentage to decline sequentially in the first quarter of 2008 primarily as a result of the full quarter impact of product transitions and reduced pricing that were effected in the fourth quarter of 2007, lower sales of iLife and iWork in their second quarter of availability, seasonally higher component costs, and a higher mix of indirect sales. These factors are expected to be partially offset by higher sales of the Companys Mac OS X operating system due to the introduction of Mac OS X Version 10.5 Leopard ("Mac OS X Leopard") that became available in October 2007. The foregoing statements regarding the Companys expected gross margin percentage are forward looking. There can be no assurance that current gross margin percentage will be maintained or targeted gross margin percentage levels will be achieved. In general, gross margins and margins on individual products will remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases in the cost and availability of raw material and outside manufacturing services, and a potential shift in the Companys sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. In response to these competitive pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take pricing actions with respect to its products. Gross margins could also be affected by the Companys ability to effectively manage product quality and warranty costs and to stimulate 47 demand for certain of its products. Due to the Companys significant international operations, financial results can be significantly affected in the short term by fluctuations in exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory in advance of product shipments. Because the Companys markets are volatile and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce or order from third parties excess or insufficient inventories of particular products or components. The Companys financial condition and operating results in the past have been and may in the future be materially adversely affected by the Companys ability to manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and to respond to short term shifts in customer demand patterns. Gross margin percentage of 29.0% in 2006 remained flat compared to 2005. The Company experienced more favorable pricing on certain commodity components including LCD flat panel displays and DRAM memory and higher overall revenue that provided for more leverage on fixed production costs, offset by an increase in lower margin iPod sales and other music related services. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for each of the last three fiscal years are as follows (in millions, except for percentages): September 29, 2007 September 30, 2006 September 24, 2005 Research and development $ 782 $ 712 $ 535 Percentage of net sales 3 % 4 % 4 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ 2,963 $ 2,433 $ 1,864 Percentage of net sales 12 % 13 % 13 % Research and Development ("R&D") Expenditures for R&D increased 10% or $70 million to $782 million in 2007 compared to 2006. R&D expense does not include capitalized software development costs of $75 million related to the development of Mac OS X Leopard and iPhone. The increases in R&D expense were primarily due to an increase in R&D headcount in the current year to support expanded R&D activities, partially offset by one less week of expenses in the first quarter of 2007 and the capitalized software development costs mentioned above. The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace and are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to the Companys core business strategy. As such, the Company expects to increase spending in R&D to remain competitive. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ("SG&A") Expenditures for SG&A increased $530 million or 22% during 2007 compared to 2006. The increase was primarily due to higher direct and indirect channel variable selling expenses resulting from the significant year over year increase in total net sales in 2007, the Companys continued expansion of its Retail segment in both domestic and international markets, and a current year increase in spending on marketing and advertising, partially offset by one less week of expenses in the first quarter of 2007. 48 Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for each of the last three fiscal years are as follows (in millions): September 29, 2007 September 30, 2006 September 24, 2005 Interest income $ 647 $ 394 $ 183 Other income (expense), net (48 ) (29 ) (18 ) Total other income and expense $ 599 $ 365 $ 165 Total other income and expense increased $234 million or 64% to $599 million during 2007 as compared to $365 million and $165 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in 2007 is attributable primarily to increased interest received from higher cash and short term investment balances and stronger investment yields resulting from higher average market interest rates partially offset by one less week of interest income earned in 2007. The weighted average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments increased to 5.27% in 2007 as compared to the 4.58% and 2.70% rates earned during 2006 and 2005, respectively. The current year increase in interest income was partially offset by higher other expense, which was primarily associated with higher foreign currency hedging expenses. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company had no debt outstanding and accordingly did not incur any interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys effective tax rate for the year ended September 29, 2007 was 30%. The Companys effective rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due primarily to certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes are provided because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. In addition, the Company recorded a tax benefit of $63 million due to the settlement of prior year audits in the U.S. As of September 29, 2007, the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of $1.1 billion before being offset against certain deferred liabilities and a valuation allowance for presentation on the Companys balance sheet. Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. As of September 29, 2007 and September 30, 2006 a valuation allowance of $5 million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits of state operating losses that may not be realized. The Company will continue to evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets quarterly by assessing the need for and amount of the valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has completed its field audit of the Companys federal income tax returns for the years 2002 through 2003 and proposed certain adjustments. The Company intends to contest certain of these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. All IRS audit issues for years prior to 2002 have been resolved. In addition, the Company is subject to audits by state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed in the Companys tax audits be resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income tax in the period such resolution occurs. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 ("SFAS No. 159"). SFAS No. 159 allows companies to choose to elect measuring eligible financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not required to be measured at fair value. SFAS 49 No. 159 requires that unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected be reported in earnings at each reporting date. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and is required to be adopted by the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Although the Company will continue to evaluate the application of SFAS No. 159, management does not currently believe adoption will have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or operating results. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, provides a framework for measuring fair value, and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies to other accounting pronouncements that require fair value measurements; it does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and is required to be adopted by the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Although the Company will continue to evaluate the application of SFAS No. 157, management does not currently believe adoption will have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or operating results. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. ("FIN") 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by creating a framework for how companies should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in their financial statements uncertain tax positions that they have taken or expect to take in a tax return. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006 and is required to be adopted by the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Although the Company will continue to evaluate the application of FIN 48, management does not currently believe adoption will have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or operating results. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each of the last three fiscal years (dollars in millions): September 29, 2007 September 30, 2006 September 24, 2005 Cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments $ 15,386 $ 10,110 $ 8,261 Accounts receivable, net $ 1,637 $ 1,252 $ 895 Inventory $ 346 $ 270 $ 165 Working capital $ 12,657 $ 8,066 $ 6,813 Annual operating cash flow $ 5,470 $ 2,220 $ 2,535 As of September 29, 2007, the Company had $15.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments, an increase of $5.3 billion over the same balance at the end of September 30, 2006. The principal components of this net increase were cash generated by operating activities of $5.5 billion, proceeds from the issuance of common stock under stock plans of $365 million and excess tax benefits from stock based compensation of $377 million. These increases were partially offset by payments for acquisitions of property, plant, and equipment of $735 million and payments for acquisitions of intangible assets of $251 million. The Companys short term investment portfolio is primarily invested in highly rated, liquid investments. As of September 29, 2007 and September 30, 2006, $6.5 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively, of the Companys cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in U.S. dollar denominated holdings. The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months. 50 Capital Assets The Companys total capital asset purchases were $822 million during 2007, consisting of $294 million for retail store facilities and $528 million for real estate acquisitions and corporate infrastructure including information systems enhancements. Of the $822 million in total capital asset purchases during 2007, $87 million were not yet paid for as of September 29, 2007. The Company currently anticipates it will utilize approximately $1.1 billion for capital asset purchases during 2008, including approximately $400 million for expansion of the Companys Retail segment, and approximately $700 million to support normal replacement of existing capital assets, including manufacturing related equipment, enhancements to general information technology infrastructure, and real estate acquisitions. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to the Company. The following table presents certain payments due by the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments as of September 29, 2007 and excludes amounts already recorded on the Companys balance sheet as current liabilities (in millions): Total Payments Due in Less Than 1 Year Payments Due in 1 3 Years Payments Due in 4 5 Years Payments Due in More Than 5 Years Operating leases $ 1,425 $ 155 $ 345 $ 308 $ 617 Purchase obligations 3,179 3,179 Asset retirement obligations 24 3 3 7 11 Other obligations 50 50 Total $ 4,678 $ 3,387 $ 348 $ 315 $ 628 Lease Commitments As of September 29, 2007, the Company had total outstanding commitments on noncancelable operating leases of $1.4 billion, $1.1 billion of which related to the lease of retail space and related facilities. Lease terms on the Companys existing major facility operating leases generally range from 3 to 15 years. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers to manufacture sub assemblies for the Companys products and to perform final assembly and test of finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Companys forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. In addition, the Company has an off balance sheet warranty obligation for products accounted for under subscription accounting pursuant to SOP No. 97 2 whereby the Company recognizes warranty expense as incurred. As of September 29, 2007, the Company had outstanding off balance sheet third party manufacturing commitments, component purchase commitments, and warranty commitments of $3.2 billion. During the first quarter of 2006, the Company entered into long term supply agreements with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation to secure supply of NAND flash memory through calendar year 2010. As part of these 51 agreements, the Company prepaid $1.25 billion for flash memory components during 2006, which will be applied to certain inventory purchases made over the life of each respective agreement. The Company utilized $208 million of the prepayment as of September 29, 2007. Asset Retirement Obligations The Companys asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments to return property subject to operating leases to original condition upon lease termination. As of September 29, 2007, the Company estimated that gross expected future cash flows of $24 million would be required to fulfill these obligations. Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $50 million as of September 29, 2007, primarily related to Internet and telecommunications services and the estimated cost related to the $100 store credit the Company offered to customers who purchased an iPhone prior to the Companys September 2007 price reduction. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end users of its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could be subject to costs and or damages in the event of an infringement claim against the Company or an indemnified third party. However, the Company has not been required to make any significant payments resulting from such an infringement claim asserted against itself or an indemnified third party and, in the opinion of management, does not have a liability related to unresolved infringement claims subject to indemnification that would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or operating results.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions, both on a stand alone basis and in conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. However, given the effective horizons of the Companys risk management activities and the anticipatory nature of the exposures, there can be no assurance the hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in either foreign exchange or interest rates. In addition, the timing of the accounting for recognition of gains and losses related to mark to market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing of gains and losses related to the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Companys financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk While the Company is exposed to interest rate fluctuations in many of the worlds leading industrialized countries, the Companys interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in the general level of U.S. interest rates. As such, changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on the Companys cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments, the value of those investments, as well as costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Companys short term investment policy and strategy is to ensure the preservation of capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return in light of the current credit and interest rate environment. A portion of the Companys cash is managed by external managers within the guidelines of the Companys investment policy and to an objective market benchmark. The Companys internal portfolio is benchmarked against external manager performance, allowing for differences in liquidity needs. The Companys exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Companys investment portfolio. The Company places its short term investments in highly liquid securities issued by highly rated issuers and, by policy, limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The Companys 52 general policy is to limit the risk of principal loss and ensure the safety of invested funds by limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with initial maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase are classified as cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with initial maturities greater than three months at the date of purchase are classified as short term investments. As of September 29, 2007, $1.9 billion of the Companys short term investments had underlying maturities ranging from 1 to 5 years. The remainder all had underlying maturities of less than 12 months. The Company may sell its investments prior to their stated maturities for strategic purposes, in anticipation of credit deterioration, or for duration management. The Company recognized net gains before taxes on short term investments of approximately $474,000 in 2007 and net losses before taxes of approximately $434,000 and $137,000 in 2006 and 2005, respectively. To provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with the Companys investment portfolio, the Company performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of September 29, 2007, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in $16 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. As of September 30, 2006, a similar 100 basis point shift in the yield curve would have resulted in a $15 million incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio. Such losses would only be realized if the Company sold the investments prior to maturity. Foreign Currency Risk In general, the Company is a net receiver of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may negatively affect the Companys net sales and gross margins as expressed in U.S. dollars. There is also a risk that the Company will have to adjust local currency product pricing due to competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Companys practice is to hedge a majority of its material foreign exchange exposures. However, the Company may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and or limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. To provide a meaningful assessment of the foreign currency risk associated with certain of the Companys foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed a sensitivity analysis using a value at risk ("VAR") model to assess the potential impact of fluctuations in exchange rates. The VAR model consisted of using a Monte Carlo simulation to generate 3,000 random market price paths. The VAR is the maximum expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, to the Companys foreign exchange portfolio due to adverse movements in rates. The VAR model is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based on the results of the model, the Company estimates with 95% confidence a maximum one day loss in fair value of $12.8 million as of September 29, 2007 compared to a maximum one day loss of $9.2 million as of September 30, 2006. Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred on those instruments are generally offset by increases in the fair value of the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Companys investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of September 29, 2007 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes in the timing and amount of interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Companys actual exposures and positions. 53   
