FILE:WEC/WEC-8K-20020708164338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Changes in registrant's certifying accountant	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Changes in registrant's certifying accountant
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 4.  CHANGES IN REGISTRANT'S CERTIFYING ACCOUNTANT.
On July 3, 2002, the Board of Directors of Wisconsin Energy Corporation, upon recommendation of its Audit and Oversight Committee, dismissed Arthur Andersen LLP as its independent accountants and engaged the firm of Deloitte & Touche LLP to audit the books and records of Wisconsin Energy and its subsidiaries, including Wisconsin Electric Power Company and Wisconsin Gas Company, for 2002. Deloitte & Touche LLP will also audit the financial statements of the Wisconsin Energy 401(k) Savings Plans for the year ending December 31, 2002. The members of the Board of Directors of Wisconsin Energy are also the members of the Board of Directors of Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas and, as such, approved the change with respect to Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas. Arthur Andersen LLP was notified of this change and Deloitte &Touche LLP of its engagement on July 3, 2002.
Wisconsin Energy, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas (the "Companies") engaged Arthur Andersen LLP as their independent accountants on March 8, 2001. From March 8, 2001 through December 31, 2001 and from January 1, 2002 through July 2, 2002, there were no disagreements with Arthur Andersen LLP on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Arthur Andersen LLP, would have caused that firm to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection with its reports, and there were no "reportable events" (as defined in SEC Regulation S-K Item 304(a)(1)(v)). Arthur Andersen LLP's reports on the Companies' respective financial statements for 2001 contained no adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion and were not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principles.
The Companies have provided Arthur Andersen LLP with a copy of the disclosures contained herein and then requested that Arthur Andersen LLP furnish them with a letter addressed to the Securities and Exchange Commission stating whether it agrees with the statements made by the Companies herein and, if not, stating the respects in which it does not agree. A copy of Arthur Andersen LLP's letter is filed as Exhibit 16.1 to this Form 8-K.
During the Companies' two most recent fiscal years and during 2002 prior to the Companies' engagement of Deloitte & Touche LLP, neither the Company nor anyone acting on behalf of any of the Companies consulted with Deloitte & Touche LLP regarding either (1) the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on any of the Companies' financial statements or (2) any matter that was either the subject of a disagreement with Arthur Andersen LLP or a "reportable event" (as defined in SEC Regulation S-K Item 304(a)(1)(v)).
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Exhibits:
See Exhibit Index following the signature page of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
to
CURRENT REPORT ON FORM 8-K
Date of Report:
JULY 3, 2002
 
The following Exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Exhibit No.
Letter of Arthur Andersen LLP to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 

Office of the Chief Accountant Securities and Exchange Commission 450 Fifth Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20549
July 8, 2002
Dear Sir/Madam:
The representations made in this letter are based solely on discussions with and representations from the engagement partner on the audits of the financial statements of these registrants for the most recent year. This individual is no longer with Arthur Andersen LLP. We have read paragraphs 2 and 3 of Item 4 included in the Form 8-K dated July 3, 2002 of Wisconsin Energy Corporation, Wisconsin Electric Power Company and Wisconsin Gas Company to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and have found no basis for disagreement with the statements contained therein.
Very truly yours,
 
 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
 
Copy to: Stephen P. Dickson, Controller of Wisconsin Energy Corporation


