FILE:WEC/WEC-8K-20030321152918.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.  OTHER EVENTS AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
Wisconsin Energy Corporation announced on March 21, 2003, that Gale E. Klappa, currently executive vice-president, chief financial officer and treasurer of Southern Company in Atlanta, Georgia, is elected president of Wisconsin Energy Corporation, effective April 14, 2003.
Klappa will report to Richard A. Abdoo, who will retain the titles of chairman and chief executive officer.
Klappa, 52, has been with Southern Company since 1974 and has held several senior leadership positions of increasing responsibility. Prior to assuming his current position, he served as Southern Company's chief strategic officer. Previously, he had been North American group president of Southern Energy, Inc. (now Mirant) and earlier was president and CEO of South Western Electricity, Southern Company's electric distribution utility in the United Kingdom. Before his assignment in the U.K., he was senior vice president of marketing for Southern Company subsidiary Georgia Power Company. Klappa is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
At Wisconsin Energy, Klappa will have primary responsibility for We Energies' electric and gas distribution business.
In addition, the company announced that Richard R. Grigg, executive vice president of Wisconsin Energy Corp., is also named president and chief executive officer for the company's newly formedelectric generation group that includes the regulated electric generation facilities of We Energies and non-utility subsidiaries We Power, Wisvest and Minergy.
Grigg, 54, joined the company in 1970 and has held a variety of engineering and power production positions of increasing responsibility, including serving as the first manager of the Pleasant Prairie Power Plant during design, construction, start-up and initial operation. He previously served as vice president of System Operations, vice president of Customer Operations, group vice president for Customer Operations and Customer Service. Between 1996 and 1998 he served as the company's chief nuclear officer. He earned both bachelors and masters degrees in engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


