FILE:WEC/WEC-8K-20040805085827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 12.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
Wisconsin Energy Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2004 on Thursday, August 5, 2004. A copy of the press release is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
From: Rick White (media)           414-221-4444           rick.white@we-energies.com
          Colleen Henderson (analysts)           414-221-2592           colleen.henderson@wisconsinenergy.com
August 5, 2004
Wisconsin Energy Reports Second Quarter, Six-Month Results
MILWAUKEE -- Wisconsin Energy Corporation (NYSE:WEC) today reported second quarter 2004 net income of $39 million or $0.32 per share, compared with net income of $49 million, or $0.42 per share, in the second quarter of 2003. The results are in line with the annual earnings guidance the company issued earlier this year.
Wisconsin Energy's second quarter results were affected by a planned refueling outage at the company's Point Beach Nuclear Plant, higher fuel and purchased power costs, increased benefit costs and reduced litigation recoveries. Expenses at the Point Beach Nuclear Plant were $21 million higher than in the second quarter of 2003 during which a refueling outage did not occur. This reduced earnings by almost $0.11 per share.
Last year, the normal refueling outage at Point Beach occurred in the fourth quarter. No additional refueling outages are scheduled for the remainder of this year.
Second quarter revenues from continuing operations were $716 million compared with $708 million in the same period a year earlier.
"We continued to manage our business effectively despite a longer than anticipated outage at our nuclear power plant" said Gale E. Klappa, Wisconsin Energy chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We're also pleased with the progress we've made in building a new natural gas-fired unit at Port Washington and the successful sale of WICOR Industries -- our pump and water systems business."
Year-to-date earnings through June 30, 2004 were $129 million, or $1.08 per share. The results compare with earnings of $141 million, or $1.20 per share, for the same period a year ago. Several factors affected the six-month results, including unfavorable weather, higher fuel and benefit costs and the timing and duration of the outage at the Point Beach Nuclear Plant.
Second quarter results also included $18 million, or $0.15 per share, from the company's pump and water systems business, which is reported as discontinued operations. Effective July 31, Wisconsin Energy closed on the sale of the business to Pentair, Inc. (NYSE:PNR) for $850 million plus the assumption by Pentair of approximately $25 million of outstanding debt.
In the third quarter, the company expects to record a gain of $1.00 to $1.05 per share or $120 to $125 million net of taxes, debt redemption costs, and fees on the sale of WICOR Industries. "We're very pleased with this result, "said Klappa. "But this single transaction needs to be viewed in the context of the nearly $90 million in net after tax losses that the company recorded on the sale of other businesses and the impairment of non-core assets over the past four years."
"We continue to strengthen our core business, execute our plan, reduce debt and improve service to our customers," Klappa added. "In addition, the reactor head replacement project for both units at Point Beach is on track for next year. This will address a major cause of the recent extended outage at that plant."
Power the Future
Conference Call
A conference call is scheduled for 1 p.m. Central time on Thursday, Aug. 5, 2004. The presentation will review 2004 second quarter earnings and discuss the company's outlook for the future.
All interested parties, including shareholders, reporters and the general public, are invited to listen to the presentation. The conference call may be accessed by dialing (800) 811-0667 up to 15 minutes before the call begins. There is no passcode required. Access may also be gained through the company's Web site (www.WisconsinEnergy.com) by clicking on the icon for the "Q2 Earnings Release and Conference Call." In conjunction with this earnings announcement, Wisconsin Energy has posted on its Web site detailed financial information on its second quarter performance. The materials will be available at 7 a.m. Central Time Aug. 5. An archive of the presentation will be available on the Web site after the call. A replay of the audio presentation will be available for one week after the call. Dial (888) 203-1112. The passcode is 635208
All earnings per share numbers listed in this news release are on a diluted basis.
 
Wisconsin Energy Corporation (NYSE:WEC), based in Milwaukee, is a Fortune 500 energy company serving more than one million electric customers in Wisconsin and Michigan's Upper Peninsula and 990,000 natural gas customers in Wisconsin. The company's principal utilities are We Energies and Edison Sault Electric. The company's non-utility businesses include energy development, recycling and renewable energy and real estate development.
www.WisconsinEnergy.com
One of the Midwest's premier energy companies, Wisconsin Energy Corporation (
) has nearly 6,000 employees, 62,000 shareholders and approximately $10 billion of assets.
Forward-looking statements
Some matters discussed above are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, business and competitive conditions in the deregulating and consolidating energy industry, in general, and, in particular, in the company's service territories; availability of the company's generating facilities; changes in purchased power costs; changes in coal or natural gas prices and supply availability and the ability to recover fuel and purchased power costs; varying weather conditions; risks associated with non-utility diversification; regulatory decisions; obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and investment capital to implement the growth strategy; equity and bond market fluctuations; f oreign, governmental, economic, political and currency risks; and other cautionary factors described in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Wisconsin Energy Corporation's 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and other factors described in the company's subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Tables Follow
 
 
 


