FILE:WEC/WEC-8K-20040816160430.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2. ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS.
Effective July 31, 2004, Wisconsin Energy Corporation ("WEC") completed the sale of all of the issued and outstanding stock of its wholly-owned subsidiary, WICOR, Inc. ("WICOR"), to Pentair, Inc. ("Pentair") for $850 million in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments. Pentair also assumed approximately $25 million in third party debt. At the time of the closing, WICOR's only asset was its equity interest in WICOR Industries, LLC ("WICOR Industries"). WICOR Industries and its consolidated subsidiaries engage in the manufacture of pumps, water treatment products and fluid handling equipment with manufacturing, sales and distribution facilities in the United States and several other countries. The amount of consideration received in the transaction was the result of arms length negotiations between WEC and Pentair.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(a)     Financial Statements of Business Acquired:
          Not applicable.
(b)     Pro Forma Financial Information:
          The pro forma financial information to be filed pursuant to Item 7(b) of Form 8-K is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
(c)     Exhibits:
Exhibit No.
         
2 Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession
          2.1     Stock Purchase Agreement among Pentair, Inc., WICOR, Inc. and Wisconsin Energy Corporation, dated February 3, 2004 ("Stock Purchase Agreement"). (Exhibit 2.1 to Wisconsin Energy Corporation's 06/30/04 Form 10-Q.)
          2.2     Amendment to the Stock Purchase Agreement among Pentair, Inc., WICOR, Inc. and Wisconsin Energy Corporation, dated July 23, 2004. (Exhibit 2.2 to Wisconsin Energy Corporation's 06/30/04 Form 10-Q).
          
99 Additional exhibits
          99.1     Pro forma financial information to be filed pursuant to Item 7(b) of Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The unaudited pro forma consolidated condensed statement of operations set forth below gives effect to the sale of WICOR, Inc. (WICOR) as if the disposition had occurred on January 1, 2003. The unaudited pro forma consolidated condensed balance sheet assumes the sale took place as of June 30, 2004 and includes adjustments to reflect an estimated $140 million after-tax gain on the sale of WICOR. This pro forma adjustment has not been made to the pro forma consolidated condensed statements of operations as it will not have a continuing impact on our results of operations.
The pro forma adjustments are based upon presently available information and estimates and assumptions described herein and in the notes to the unaudited pro forma consolidated condensed financial statements. The pro forma gain on the sale of WICOR is based upon the net book value of the net assets sold as of June 30, 2004. We have included this pro forma financial information as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. This information is not necessarily indicative of the results that would have been reported had the disposition actually occurred on the dates specified, nor is it indicative of the results that may be obtained in the future.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated condensed financial information is based on our historical consolidated financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in our 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the consolidated condensed financial statements in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2004.
 
 
Pro Forma Adjusting Entries
(1) The historical December 31, 2003 consolidated condensed statement of operations has been adjusted to eliminate the operations of WICOR, Inc. (WICOR) as if the disposition occurred on January 1, 2003. No adjustment is necessary to the consolidated condensed statement of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2004 as the disposition of WICOR, Inc. had previously been reported as discontinued operations in those financial statements. Certain corporate overheads reported in the manufacturing segment continue to exist following the sale and are reported in continuing operations. Certain other corporate costs are directly attributable to the discontinued operations.
Income Statement:
(2) The historical consolidated condensed balance sheet, which reflects WICOR, Inc. as a discontinued operation has been adjusted to show the impact of the sale as if the sale occurred on June 30, 2004. The impacts are calculated as follows:
Balance Sheet:
 
(3) In February 2004, we announced that we expected to receive $740 million of proceeds from this transaction, after expenses and taxes. We announced that we would use the proceeds to retire long-term debt, trust preferred securities and short-term debt. In addition, we announced that we would purchase up to $50 million of our common stock under an existing stock repurchase program.
Impact of Use of Proceeds on Operations:
In anticipation of the closing of the WICOR sale, we redeemed $200 million of Trust Preferred Securities in March 2004. This redemption was financed with short-term debt.  In addition, we repurchased approximately $31 million of our common stock from February 2004 until June 30, 2004 which was financed with short-term debt. In August, we announced that we would initiate the redemption of Senior Notes under a make-whole provision of the notes.
The accompanying pro forma income statements do not reflect any impacts for the expected use of proceeds for the sale. We believe that it is meaningful to disclose our estimate of the reduction of interest expense and lower shares outstanding as a result of the redemption of debt and the repurchase of common stock. We will assume that the WICOR sale was completed on January 1, 2003, and that the net proceeds were used as follows:
Redemption of $200 million of Trust Preferred Securities 6.875%
Redemption of $300 million of Senior Notes 5.875%
Repurchase of $50 million of Common Stock at a price of $25.20 per share
Retirement of $175 million of Short-term debt
Using these assumptions, and excluding the one-time costs associated with the redemption of the Trust Preferred Securities and the Senior Notes, we estimate that the pro-forma diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2003 would have been $1.92 per share, and the pro-forma diluted earnings per share for the six months ended June 30, 2004 would have been $0.98 per share.


