FILE:WEC/WEC-8K-20050727082022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On Wednesday, July 27, 2005, Wisconsin Energy Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 99 attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
From: Rick James (news media) 414-221-4444 rick.james@we-energies.com
Colleen Henderson, CFA (analysts) 414-221-2592 colleen.henderson@wisconsinenergy.com
July 27, 2005
Wisconsin Energy Corporation Posts Higher Results in Second Quarter
MILWAUKEE -Wisconsin Energy (NYSE:WEC) reported net income from continuing operations of $57 million or 48 cents per share for the second quarter of 2005. The company recognized a 14 cent per share gain in the second quarter associated with the ability to recognize state tax operating losses at the parent company level. Excluding this item, adjusted earnings were 34 cents per share. Net income from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2004 was $22 million or 18 cents per share. Excluding 2 cents per share of non-recurring charges, adjusted earnings were 20 cents per share in the second quarter of 2004. Warmer than normal summer weather, lower debt levels at Wisconsin Energy and continued cost control across the utility operations contributed to second quarter results. Second quarter 2005 revenues from continuing operations were $793 million compared with $715 million in the second quarter last year. Residential use of electricity was up 11.9 percent in this year's second quarter, reflecting warm summer temperatures as compared to last year. Use of electricity by commercial and industrial customers increased by 2.3 percent.
"In addition to strong financial results, we continued to deliver world-class reliability, and our focus remains on generating high levels of customer satisfaction," said Gale Klappa, Wisconsin Energy's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We also began construction of our new units at Oak Creek. The units are targeted to go into service in 2009 and 2010, and once they're completed, we expect them to provide our customers with affordable energy for years to come." Earnings per share listed in this news release are on a fully diluted basis.
Conference Call
A conference call is scheduled for 1 p.m. Central time on Wednesday, July 27, 2005. The presentation will review 2005 second quarter earnings and discuss the company's outlook for the future.
All interested parties, including stockholders, the news media and the general public, are invited to listen to the presentation. The conference call may be accessed by dialing
(800)289-0572
up to 15 minutes before the call begins. There is no pass code required. Access also may be gained through the company's Web site (www.WisconsinEnergy.com) by clicking on the icon for the "Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Release & Conference Call." In conjunction with this earnings announcement, Wisconsin Energy has posted on its Web site a package of detailed financial information on its second quarter performance. The materials will be available at 7:30 a.m. Central time on July 27. An archive of the presentation will be available on the Web site after the call. A replay of the audio presentation will be available for one week after the call. Dial (888) 203-1112. The pass code is 2140830.
Non-GAAP Earnings Measures
Adjusted earnings (non-GAAP earnings), which generally exclude non-operational items as well as one-time charges or credits that are not associated with the company's ongoing operations, are provided as a complement to earnings presented in accordance with GAAP. The excluded items are not indicative of the company's operating performance. Therefore, we believe that the presentation of adjusted earnings from operations is relevant and useful to investors to understand Wisconsin Energy's operating performance. Management uses such measures internally to evaluate the company's performance and manage its operations.
Wisconsin Energy Corporation (NYSE:WEC), based in Milwaukee, is a Fortune 500 energy company serving more than one million electric customers in Wisconsin and Michigan's Upper Peninsula and more than one million natural gas customers in Wisconsin. The company's principal utilities are We Energies and Edison Sault Electric. The company's nonutility businesses include energy development, recycling and renewable energy, and real estate development.
One of the Midwest's premier energy companies, Wisconsin Energy Corporation (www.WisconsinEnergy.com) has approximately 5,600 employees, 58,000 registered stockholders and more than $9 billion of assets.
Forward Looking Statements
Some matters discussed above are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary materially from those set forth in forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions; business and competitive conditions in the deregulating and consolidating energy industry, in general, and, in particular, in the company's service territories; unanticipated operational and/or financial consequences related to the implementation on April 1, 2005, of a bid-based energy market in Wisconsin and Michigan; availability of the company's generating facilities; changes in purchased power costs; changes in coal or natural gas prices and supply and transportation availability and the ability to recover fuel and purchased power costs; varying weather conditions; risks associated with nonutiilty diversification; regulatory decisions; construction risks; obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and investment capital to implement the growth strategy; successful resolution of legal challenges to the company's Power the Future program; equity and bond market fluctuations; foreign, governmental, economic, political and currency risks; and other cautionary factors described in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Wisconsin Energy Corporation's 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2004, and other factors described in the company's subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Tables Follow
# # #
 
 
 
 
 


