FILE:WEC/WEC-8K-20080507173800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
On May 7, 2008, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (WDNR) issued a draft modified Wisconsin Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (WPDES) Permit for the cooling water intake system to serve the existing units at the Oak Creek Power Plant and the two new units being added as part of the Oak Creek expansion. The WDNR has proposed to modify the permit because it has concluded that the water intake system that has been built at the site is best technology available both for the existing units and for the new units. The draft modified permit is subject to a public comment period and a public informational hearing. We anticipate that the WDNR will issue a final modified permit in the summer of 2008.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
Certain statements contained herein are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the statements, including the timing of state and federal regulatory actions that are necessary subsequent to the issuance of the draft permit and other factors described under the heading "Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and under the headings "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information" and "Risk Factors" contained in each of Wisconsin Energy Corporation's and Wisconsin Electric Power Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and in subsequent reports filed by each company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements may be identified by reference to a future period or periods or by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "may," "objectives," "plans," "possible," "potential," "projects" or similar terms or variations of these terms. Each of Wisconsin Energy Corporation and Wisconsin Electric Power Company expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 


