FILE:WEC/WEC-8K-20081205170424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
On December 4, 2008, pursuant to the terms of the Short-Term Performance Plan of Wisconsin Energy Corporation amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005 (the "STPP"), the Compensation Committee of Wisconsin Energy Corporation's Board of Directors established overall performance goals for the upcoming 2009 plan year. In general, the 2009 annual incentive under the STPP will be dependent upon financial achievement determined by Wisconsin Energy's performance against targets for earnings from ongoing operations and cash flows, which will be established in the near future. In addition to Wisconsin Energy's targets for earnings from ongoing operations and cash flows, officers and employees whose positions principally relate to utility operations are also measured against targets for the aggregate net income of Wisconsin Electric Power Company and Wisconsin Gas LLC. Awards can be increased or decreased by up to 10% based upon Wisconsin Energy's performance in the operational areas of customer satisfaction (5%), supplier and workforce diversity (2.5%) and safety (2.5%).
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
        
 10 Material Contracts
  10.1 Wisconsin Energy Corporation Short-Term Performance Plan, As Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2005.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
The Wisconsin Energy Corporation Short-Term Performance Plan (the "Plan") was established effective January 1, 1992 and was last amended and restated effective as of August 15, 2000. The Plan is hereby amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005 to (1) preserve certain pension make-whole benefits derived from compensation paid and credited before January 1, 2005 provided the benefits were otherwise vested as of December 31, 2004 and therefore exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and (2) specify payment of Plan awards pursuant to the short-term deferral rules of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(4).
Purpose and Objectives
The purpose of this Plan is to provide an annual incentive compensation plan which permits the awarding of annual cash bonuses to eligible employees of Wisconsin Energy Corporation (the "Company") and/or its subsidiaries, based on the achievement of pre-established performance goals which promote the achievement of shareholder, customer and employee-focused objectives while recognizing individual performance.
Eligibility
Definition of a "Participant"
The term "Participant" as used in this Plan refers to any key employee of the Company and/or its subsidiaries who is designated for participation in the Plan annually by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") or the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee"). An employee can be designated as a "Participant" for either Benefit A or Benefit B as described in the Plan. Employees designated as Participants in either Benefit A or Benefit B of the Plan shall be so notified in writing, and shall be apprised of the performance goals and related target awards for the relevant plan year. For purposes of the Plan, the plan year is the calendar year.
Partial Plan Year Participation
Generally, Participants will be in the active employ of the Company prior to the first day of any plan year, but an individual who becomes employed after that date may be designated as a Participant.
In that event, such Participant's final award shall be prorated based upon the number of full calendar months of eligibility during such plan year. The Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee shall have full discretion to determine the proper calculation for such proration, or adjust the target and/or performance awards.
Award Determination
Target Award Level
Prior to the beginning of each plan year or as soon as practicable thereafter, the Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee shall approve a target award for each Participant. The established target award shall vary in relation to the Participant's responsibilities and influence on achievement of short-term goals. In the event a Participant's responsibilities change during a plan year, the Participant's target award may be adjusted to reflect the level of responsibility at the end of the plan year.
Performance Goals
Prior to the beginning of each plan year, or as soon as practicable thereafter, performance goals for that plan year shall be established with the approval of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee. The goals may be based on any combination of corporate, subsidiary, divisional, and/or individual goals. More than one performance goal may be established, and multiple goals may have the same or different weightings. Various achievement levels of performance for each performance goal may be established.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee may also establish one or more Company-wide performance goals which must be achieved for any Participant to receive an award for that plan year.
Adjustment of Performance Goals
The Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee may make an adjustment to the performance goals and the target awards (either up or down) during a plan year if it determines that external changes or other unanticipated business conditions have materially affected the fairness of the goals and have unduly influenced the Company's ability to meet them. Further, in the event of a plan year of less than twelve (12) months, the Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee may make an adjustment to the performance goals and the target awards accordingly, at his or its discretion.
Final Award Determinations
At the end of each plan year, final awards shall be computed for each Participant as approved by the Chief Executive Officer, the Committee or the Board. Final award amounts may vary above or below the target awards, based on achievement of the pre-established corporate, subsidiary, divisional, and/or individual performance goals.
Award Cap
The Chief Executive Officer, the Committee or the Board may establish guidelines governing the maximum final awards that may be earned by Participants (either in the aggregate, by employee groups established for this purpose, or among individual Participants) in each plan year. The guidelines may be expressed as a percentage of Company-wide goals or financial measures, or such other measures.
Pro Rata Target Award Upon a Change in Control
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, upon the occurrence of a "change in control" of the Company as defined in the Company's Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, and as amended from time to time (which definition is hereby incorporated by reference), each Participant in the employ of the Company or a subsidiary on the effective date of such change in control shall become entitled to the target award established for such Participant for the plan year in which the change in control occurs, but only to the extent that such Participant is not already entitled to a special bonus payout under the provisions of any other agreement. Such target award shall be prorated based on the number of full calendar months of service completed by such Participant during such plan year prior to the occurrence of such change in control.
Payment of Final Awards
Form and Timing of Payments
Final award payments shall be paid no later than March 15 of the plan year following the plan year in which the award was earned.
Awards Under Benefit A - Preservation of Frozen Legacy Pension Make-Whole Benefit
The Company provides a pension make-whole benefit for Participants who are not, nor at any time become, eligible for SERP Benefit A under the Wisconsin Energy Corporation Supplemental Pension Plan. The provisions below as well as the provisions of the 2003 Mezzanine Incentive Plan for WE Power, LLC ("MEZ Plan") and the Legacy Wisconsin Energy Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan ("Legacy EDCP") collectively provide for a pension make-whole benefit with respect to Benefit A awards hereunder, MEZ Plan awards and Legacy EDCP base salary deferrals, each of which are excluded from compensation under the RAP.
The portion of the "pension make-whole benefit" described in this paragraph 2 shall be provided only in relation to those Benefit A awards earned, vested and paid before January 1, 2005 (the "Legacy Pension Make-Whole Benefit"). The Legacy Pension Make-Whole Benefit is not subject to Code Section 409A. Benefit A awards earned and vested on or after January 1, 2005 and the Benefit A award earned in 2004, but paid in 2005 shall not be eligible for a pension make-whole benefit hereunder; rather, such awards shall be taken into consideration in determining any pension make-whole benefits payable pursuant to the terms of the Wisconsin Energy Corporation Supplemental Pension Plan. The provisions below describe only the preserved Legacy Pension Make-Whole Benefit.
Benefit Description. The Legacy Pension Make-Whole Benefit takes into account compensation attributable to the Benefit A awards hereunder, which are excluded from calculating a Participant's retirement income under the Wisconsin Energy Corporation Retirement Account Plan ("RAP"). The benefit provided is the pension benefit that would have accrued to the Participant's credit under the RAP, taking the Benefit A awards into account calculated without regard to any limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code on benefits or compensation, less the pension benefit that actually accrued to the Participant's credit under the RAP. The terms and conditions of the RAP shall provide the governing principles as to the calculation and payment of the additional pension benefit determined hereunder.
Vesting. Any Legacy Pension Make-Whole Benefit is immediately vested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant becomes eligible for and vests in SERP Benefit A, the participant will receive SERP Benefit A in lieu of the pension make-whole benefit.
Time and Form of Payment. The terms and provisions of the pension make-whole benefit set forth in the Legacy EDCP shall govern the time and form of any Legacy Pension Make-Whole Benefit.
Awards Under Benefit B
Final awards for employees designated as Participants under Benefit B may not be deferred under the Company's Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and such awards are not subject to any "make-whole" pension supplement.
Unsecured Interest
No Participant or any other party claiming an interest in amounts earned under the Plan shall have any interest whatsoever in any specific asset of the Company. To the extent that any party acquires a right to receive payments under the Plan, such right shall be equivalent to that of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
Termination of Employment
Termination of Employment Due to Death, Disability or Retirement
In the event a Participant's employment is terminated by reason of death, "Disability," or "Retirement," the final award determined in accordance with Section III(4), shall be reduced to reflect participation prior to termination only. For purposes of this Plan, "Retirement" shall have occurred if the Participant terminates service either on or after age 55 with at least 10 years of service, at or after age 65, and "Disability" shall have the same meaning as in the Company's long-term disability plan. The reduced award shall be determined by multiplying said final award by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months of employment in the plan year and the denominator of which is twelve (12). In the case of a Participant's Disability, the employment termination shall be deemed to have occurred on the date the Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee determines the definition of Disability to have been satisfied.
The final award thus determined shall be paid at the time described in Section IV.1.
Termination of Employment for Other Reasons
In the event a Participant's employment is terminated for any reason other than death, Disability, or Retirement (of which the Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee shall be the sole judge), all of the Participant's rights to a final award for the plan year then in progress shall be forfeited. However, except in the event of an employment termination for "Cause," the Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee may waive such provisions and allow payment of a prorated award for the portion of that plan year that the Participant was employed by the Company. In such circumstance, the CEO, Board or Committee, as the case may be, shall determine, in its sole discretion, the amount of such prorated award. In the event a prorated award is payable pursuant to this paragraph 2, payment shall be made no later than March 15 of the plan year following the plan year in which the award was earned.
Cause shall be defined as:
the willful and continued failure of the Participant to substantially perform the Participant's duties (other than failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant by the Board, the Committee or an elected officer of the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which the Board, the Committee or the elected officer believes that the Participant has not substantially performed the Participant's duties, or
the willful engaging by the Participant in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. However, no act, or failure to act, on the Participant's part shall be considered "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his or her action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.
Rights of Participants
Employment
Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or employing subsidiary to terminate any Participant's employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary.
Nontransferability
No right or interest of any Participant in the Plan shall be assignable or transferable, or subject to any lien, directly, by operation of law, or otherwise, including, but not limited to, execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge, and bankruptcy.
Beneficiary Designation
Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company and will be effective only when filed in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, or if the beneficiary predeceases the Participant, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
Amendments
The Board or the Committee, in its sole discretion, without notice, at any time and from time to time, may modify or amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan, or suspend or terminate it entirely; provided, however, that no such modification, amendment, suspension, or termination may, without the consent of a Participant (or his or her beneficiary in the case of the death of the Participant), reduce the right of a Participant (or his or her beneficiary as the case may be) to a payment or distribution hereunder of a final award to which he or she is entitled. The Chief Executive Officer may also make amendments to the Plan at any time, consistent with the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer by the Board regarding such amendments.
Miscellaneous
The Chief Executive Officer, the Board or the Committee may establish, amend or rescind from time to time rules and regulations which are necessary or desirable in connection with the Plan. The Chief Executive Officer may not act on any matter involving his own participation in this Plan. The Company shall have the right to withhold from any amounts payable under this Plan any taxes or other amounts required to be withheld by any governmental authority.
Every person receiving or claiming payments under this Plan shall be conclusively presumed to be mentally competent until the date on which the Company receives a written notice, in form and manner acceptable to it, that such person is incompetent and that a guardian, conservator, or other person legally vested with the care of such person's estate has been appointed. In the event a guardian or conservator of the estate of any person receiving or claiming payments under this Plan shall be appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction, payments may be made to such guardian or conservator provided that proper proof of appointment and continuing qualification is furnished in a form and manner acceptable to the Company. Any such payment so made shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefore.
Participation in this Plan, or any modifications thereof, or the payment of any benefits hereunder, shall not be construed as giving to the Participant any right to be retained in the service of the Company or its subsidiaries, limiting in any way the right of the Company or its subsidiaries to terminate the Participant's employment at any time, evidencing any agreement or understanding, express or implied, that the Company or its subsidiaries will employ the Participant in any particular position or at any particular rate of compensation and/or guaranteeing the Participant any right to receive a salary increase in any year, such increase being granted only at the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board.
The Company, or its subsidiaries, or their Boards of Directors or any committees thereof, or any officer or director of the Company or its subsidiaries or any other person shall not be liable for any act or failure to act hereunder, except for fraud.
This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, to the extent not preempted by federal law, without reference to conflicts of law principles.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned authorized officer has executed this document as of December 4, 2008, to evidence its adoption by Wisconsin Energy Corporation.
Wisconsin Energy Corporation
By:       Gale E. Klappa
/s/ Gale E. Klappa
Its: Chief Executive Officer


