FILE:WEC/WEC-8K-20120120114820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 19, 2012
The name and address of each registrant have not changed since the last report.
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION
WISCONSIN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
On January 19, 2012, the Board of Directors of each of Wisconsin Energy Corporation and Wisconsin Electric Power Company increased the number of directors constituting the whole Board from nine to ten and elected Mary Ellen Stanek to fill the vacancy on the Board of Directors of each company. Ms. Stanek currently serves as Managing Director and Director of Asset Management for Robert W. Baird & Co., Chief Investment Officer of Baird Advisors, an institutional fixed income investment advisor, and President of Baird Funds, Inc., a publicly registered investment company. Ms. Stanek was also appointed to the Finance Committee of each Board of Directors effective January 19, 2012. The Board of Directors of each company determined that Ms. Stanek is independent pursuant to Wisconsin Energy's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Consistent with Wisconsin Energy's compensation policy for non-employee directors, Ms. Stanek will receive an annual retainer fee of $75,000 and an annual restricted stock award equal to a value of $80,000, with all shares vesting three years from the date of grant. A single annual retainer fee is paid for service on the Boards of Wisconsin Energy, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas LLC.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
10 Material Contracts

Exhibit 10.1
WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION
TERMS and CONDITIONS GOVERNING
DIRECTOR RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD
EFFECTIVE JAN. 2012
WHEREAS
, the Company believes it to be in the best interests of the Company, its subsidiaries and its stockholders for its directors to increase their stock ownership in the Company in order that they will thus have a greater incentive to direct the Company's affairs in such a way that its shares may become more valuable; and
WHEREAS
, the Director serves the Company or one of its subsidiaries as director (Covered Service);
NOW, THEREFORE
, in consideration of these premises and the services to be performed by the Director, the Company grants this restricted stock award to the Director on the following terms and conditions.
All capitalized terms used in this award and not otherwise defined herein are defined in the Plan.
The Company grants to the Director a restricted stock award for the number shares of common stock of the Company (the Common Stock) specified in the notice of grant.
The restricted stock shall become vested upon the first to occur, if any, of the following events:
The period of time during which the shares covered by this restricted stock award are forfeitable is referred to as the Restricted Period. If the Director's Covered Service terminates during the Restricted Period before the shares have vested in accordance with the provisions of this award, such restricted stock shall be forfeited to the Company on the date of such termination, without any further obligation of the Company to the Director and all rights of the Director with respect to such restricted stock shall terminate; provided that the Committee may, in its discretion, vest the restricted stock upon the Director's termination of Covered Service.
Director Restricted Stock -
1
WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION
TERMS and CONDITIONS GOVERNING
DIRECTOR RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD
EFFECTIVE JAN. 2012
During the Restricted Period, the Director shall have the right to vote the restricted stock; however, all cash dividends, stock dividends, stock rights or other securities issued with respect to the restricted stock (collectively, the Proceeds) shall be forfeitable and subject to the same restrictions as exist regarding the original shares of restricted stock. All cash dividends paid during the Restricted Period will be used to acquire additional restricted shares. The restricted stock shall be nontransferable during the Restricted Period, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
The restricted stock, along with any Proceeds, may be credited to Director in book entry form and shall be held, by the Company or an agent for the Company until the applicable restrictions have expired. If any certificates are issued for shares of restricted stock during the Restricted Period, such certificates shall bear an appropriate legend as determined by the Company referring to the applicable terms, conditions and restrictions and the Director shall deliver a signed, blank stock power to the Company relating thereto.
Notwithstanding anything in this award, the terms of this award shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained by the Director from the Secretary of the Company, and this award is subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations established by the Committee from time to time pursuant to the Plan.
Director Restricted Stock -
2


