Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Copper Copper, in the form of copper cathode, is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges New York Mercantile Exchange (COMEX), the London Metals Exchange (LME) and the Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE). Prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand and can be volatile and cyclical. Our copper ores are generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (SX/EW). Ore subject to the smelting process is crushed and further treated to produce a copper concentrate with an average copper content of about 30 percent. Copper concentrate is then smelted (subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anodes, which weigh between 800 and 900 pounds each and have an average copper content of 99.5 percent. The anodes are further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathodes, which weigh between 100 and 350 pounds each and have a copper content of 99.99 percent. In the SX/EW process, copper is extracted from ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. The copper content of the solution is increased in two additional solution extraction stages and then the copper bearing solution undergoes an electrowinning process to produce cathode that is 99.99 percent copper. Our copper cathodes are used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses. In general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. According to Brook Hunt, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, coppers end use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are: 3 Table of Contents Construction 35 % Electrical applications 32 % Industrial machinery 12 % Transportation 11 % Consumer products 10 % Gold Gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. Gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. Benchmark prices are generally based on London Bullion Market Association quotations. Molybdenum Molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. Molybdenum as a high purity metal is also used in electronics such as flat panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. Molybdenums end use markets and their share of total consumption are: Construction steel 37 % Stainless steel 21 % Chemicals 13 % Tool and high speed steel 10 % Cast iron 8 % Molybdenum metal 7 % Super alloys 4 % Reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, including Platts Metals Week, Ryans Notes and Metal Bulletin. PRODUCTS AND SALES Copper Products We are one of the worlds leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. During 2009, approximately 61 percent of our consolidated copper production was from our Grasberg, Morenci and Cerro Verde mines, and more than half of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, approximately 25 percent as cathodes and approximately 21 percent as rod (principally from our North America operations). Copper Concentrate. In 2009, we produced copper concentrate at seven mines, of which PT Freeport Indonesia is our largest producer. Approximately 50 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias concentrate production in 2009 was refined at affiliated smelters, Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting. Copper concentrate was also produced at our Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad mines in Arizona, and was generally shipped to our Miami smelter in Arizona. In South America, we produced copper concentrate at our Cerro Verde mine in Peru and our Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines in Chile. We are initiating activities to restart the Morenci mill, which was temporarily idled in February 2009, to process available sulfide material currently being mined. Copper Cathode. In 2009, we produced copper cathode at two electrolytic refineries and ten mines. Our refineries are located in El Paso, Texas, and Huelva, Spain. PT Smelting also produces copper cathode. We produced SX/EW cathode from our Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Chino, Safford, Tyrone and Miami mines in North America and our Cerro Verde and El Abra mines in South America. In 2009, we began SX/EW production at our Tenke Fungurume mine in the DRC. Continuous Cast Copper Rod. We manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in El Paso, Texas; Norwich, Connecticut and Miami, Arizona. 4 Table of Contents Other Copper Products. We produce specialty copper products at our Bayway operations in Elizabeth, New Jersey. These products include specialty copper alloys in the forms of rod, bar and strip. We manufacture electrode wire for use in welding steel cans at our Norwich, Connecticut and El Paso, Texas, facilities. We also produce copper sulfate pentahydrate for use in agricultural and industrial applications at our facility in Sierrita, Arizona. Copper Sales North America. The majority of the copper produced at our North America copper mines and refined in our El Paso refinery is consumed at our rod plants in El Paso, Texas; Norwich, Connecticut and Miami, Arizona. The remainder of our North America copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate to third parties. Generally, copper rod and cathode are sold to wire and cable fabricators and brass mills under United States (U.S.) dollar denominated, annual contracts. Cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing COMEX monthly average spot price for the month of shipment and include a premium. South America. Production from our South America copper mines is generally sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under U.S. dollar denominated, annual and multi year contracts. Cerro Verde sells approximately 70 percent of its production as concentrate and the rest as cathode. Some of Cerro Verdes cathode is sold under annual contract terms to South American customers. Approximately 22 percent of Cerro Verdes and 11 percent of Candelarias 2009 concentrate production was sold at market rates to Atlantic Copper. A majority of our Ojos del Salado concentrate production is sold to local Chilean smelters. El Abras cathode production is sold primarily under annual or multi year contracts to Asian or European rod or brass mill customers, or to merchants. The remainder of the cathode and concentrate production is primarily sold under long term contracts to external customers, largely located in Asia, with the balance sold on a spot basis. Our South America sales are priced based on the LME monthly average spot price. Cathode sales are generally priced in the month of arrival at the buyers facilities and generally include a premium. Substantially all of our concentrate sales are priced in the third calendar month following the month of arrival at the buyers facilities. Revenues from South America concentrate sales are recorded net of treatment and refining charges. Treatment and refining charges are fees paid to smelters and refiners and are generally negotiated annually. Moreover, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrates is unrecoverable from the smelting process, our revenues from concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances based on the quantity and value of these unrecoverable metals. These allowances are a negotiated term of our contracts and vary by customer. Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of by product gold and silver, under U.S. dollar denominated sales agreements. During 2009, approximately half of PT Freeport Indonesias production was sold to Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting. PT Freeport Indonesia sells substantially all of its budgeted production of copper concentrates under long term contracts. In general, most of its concentrate sales are priced on the basis of the LME average spot price for either the first, second or third calendar month following the month of arrival at the buyers facilities. PT Freeport Indonesia has a long term contract to provide Atlantic Copper with approximately 55 percent of its current concentrate requirements at market prices. PT Freeport Indonesias contract with PT Smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements necessary to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually (essentially the smelters original design capacity) on a priority basis. Refer to Smelting Facilities for further discussion. We anticipate that PT Freeport Indonesia will sell approximately 60 percent of its annual concentrate production to Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting in 2010. A summary of PT Freeport Indonesias aggregate percentage concentrate sales to PT Smelting, Atlantic Copper and to other parties for the last three years follows: 2009 2008 2007 PT Smelting 32% 41% 39% Atlantic Copper 18% 15% 25% Other parties 50% 44% 36% 100% 100% 100% 5 Table of Contents PT Freeport Indonesias sales to PT Smelting represented approximately 13 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, approximately eight percent in 2008 and approximately 11 percent in 2007. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in any of the three years ended December 31, 2009. Revenues from our Indonesia concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties (refer to Mines Indonesia Contracts of Work), and treatment and refining charges (including price participation charges, if applicable, based on the market prices of metals). Similar to our South America mines, Indonesia concentrate sales are net of allowances for unrecoverable metals. PT Freeport Indonesia sells a small amount of copper concentrates in the spot market. Africa. Copper produced at our Tenke Fungurume mining district is generally sold as copper cathode under U.S. dollar denominated contracts priced based on the LME monthly average spot price for the month after the month of shipment. Europe. Atlantic Copper sells copper cathode directly to rod and brass mills, primarily located in Europe. Atlantic Copper has occasionally sold copper cathode to merchants. Copper cathode is generally sold under annual contracts and priced based on the LME average spot price for the month of arrival at the buyers facilities. Gold Products and Sales We also produce gold as a by product, primarily at the Grasberg minerals district, which accounted for approximately 96 percent of our consolidated gold production in 2009. Gold is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a by product of the smelting and refining process. Gold generally is priced at the average London Bullion Market Association price for a specified month near the month of shipment. Molybdenum Products and Sales We are the worlds largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum based chemicals. In addition to production from our Henderson molybdenum mine, we produce by product molybdenum at our Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad mines in Arizona and at our Cerro Verde mine in Peru. For 2009, approximately half of our consolidated molybdenum production was from the Henderson molybdenum mine and approximately 46 percent was produced as a by product at the North America mines. The majority of our molybdenum concentrates are processed in our own conversion facilities. Technical grade oxide is produced from molybdenum concentrates in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Ferromolybdenum is produced from technical grade oxide in Stowmarket, United Kingdom through a metallothermic reduction process. High quality molybdenum concentrates are converted into molybdenum chemicals at Fort Madison, Iowa and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Molybdenum generally is priced based on the average Platts Metals Week price for the month of shipment. Approximately 90 percent of our expected 2010 molybdenum sales are expected to be priced at prevailing market prices. Other Products and Sales We produce cobalt as a cobalt hydroxide intermediate by product of copper production at the Tenke Fungurume mine in the DRC and silver as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes. Cobalt hydroxide intermediate product is priced based on a discount to the average monthly price published by Metal Bulletin for a specified month near the month of shipment and silver generally is priced at the average London Bullion Market Association price for a specified month near the month of shipment. Sales of cobalt and silver, along with other by product metals such as rhenium and magnetite, do not represent a significant component of our total revenues. For an allocation of our consolidated revenues by geographic area, refer to Note 20. 6 Table of Contents MINES Curtailed Facilities The following table summarizes the temporary curtailments announced in late 2008 and early 2009 in response to market conditions. For additional information, refer to Note 2. In addition, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of our current development projects. Facility Date of Announcement Announced Reductions Current Status Copper North America Morenci December 2008 and January 2009 25 percent reduction in mining and crushed leach rates in December 2008 and an additional reduction in January 2009 for a total 50 percent reduction in mining and crushed leach rates. Activities to restart mill commenced in 2010. Mine continues to operate at reduced rates. Chino December 2008 Suspension of mining and milling activities. Leaching activities from stockpiles continues. No change. Safford December 2008 50 percent reduction in mining and stacking rates. Continuing to operate at reduced rates. Tyrone December 2008 50 percent reduction in mining rate. Operating at 80 percent of capacity. Miami December 2008 Deferral of restart of the Miami mine. Restart activities resumed in late 2009. South America Cerro Verde January 2009 Deferral of incremental mill expansion Mill expansion activities resumed in late 2009; continue to study long term expansion opportunities. Candelaria/ Ojos del Salado January 2009 Reduction in mining rates. Continuing to operate at reduced rates. El Abra December 2009 Deferral of development of sulfide ores. Resumed development activities. Molybdenum Henderson November 2008 and January 2009 40 percent reduction in mining and milling rates. Mining rates currently at 80 percent of capacity. Climax November 2008 Deferral of restart of the Climax mine. No change. Cerro Verde January 2009 Suspension of molybdenum by product production. Molybdenum by product production resumed in fourth quarter of 2009. We are continuing to closely monitor market conditions and may make further adjustments to our production and sales plans. Following are maps and descriptions of our North America (including Molybdenum operations), South America, Indonesia and Africa mining operations. 7 Table of Contents North America In the U.S., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, SX/EW facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. Certain portions of our Sierrita, Bagdad, Miami, Tyrone, Chino, Cobre and Henderson operations are located on government owned land and are operated under a Mine Plan of Operations or other use permit. Various federal and state permits or leases on government land are held for purposes incidental to mine operations. Morenci We own an 85 percent undivided interest in Morenci, with the remaining 15 percent owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation. Each partner takes in kind its share of Morencis production. Morenci is an open pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. Morenci is located in Greenlee County, Arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of Safford on U.S. Highway 191. The site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. The Morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. The Morenci operation consists of a 49,000 metric ton per day concentrator, that when operating produces copper and molybdenum concentrate; a 72,000 metric ton per day crushed ore leach pad and stacking system; a large low grade run of mine (ROM) leaching system; four SX plants; and three EW tank houses that produce copper cathode. Total EW tank house capacity is approximately 916 million pounds of copper per year. Copper production for 2009 was 504 million pounds, including our partners share, which reflects the revised operating plan reducing the mining and crushed leach rate by 50 percent beginning in late 2008 and early 2009. The available mining fleet consists of 102 235 metric ton haul trucks loaded by 18 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 55 cubic meters, which are capable of moving over 750,000 metric tons of material per day. The concentrate leach, direct electrowinning facility at Morenci was commissioned in third quarter 2007 and produced copper concentrate until early 2009. We placed this facility on care and maintenance in first quarter 2009 as part of our revised operating plan. Morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,950 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 900 meters above sea level. The Morenci operation encompasses approximately 53,944 acres, comprising 47,609 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 5,914 acres of unpatented mining claims, and 421 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights of way. Morenci receives electrical power from Tucson Electric Power Company, Arizona Public Service Company and the Luna Energy facility in Deming, New Mexico (in which we own a one third interest). Although we believe the Morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support currently planned mining operations, we are a party to litigation that could adversely affect our water rights at Morenci and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings, for information concerning the status of these proceedings. 8 Table of Contents Sierrita Our wholly owned Sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Pima County, Arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of Tucson and seven miles west of the town of Green Valley and Interstate Highway 19. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. The Sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. The Sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton per day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates. Sierrita also produces copper from a ROM oxide leaching system. Cathode copper is plated at the Twin Buttes EW facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. In 2004, a copper sulfate crystal plant began production. The facility has the capacity to produce 40 million pounds of copper sulfate per year. The Sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. The molybdenum facilities process Sierrita concentrate, concentrate from our other mines and concentrate from third party sources. Copper production for 2009 was 170 million pounds and molybdenum production was 19 million pounds. The available mining fleet has the capacity to move an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day using 24 235 metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters. Sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,350 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 550 meters above sea level. The Sierrita operation, including the recently acquired Twin Buttes site, encompasses approximately 23,418 acres, comprising 13,282 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 9,644 acres of unpatented mining claims, 5,913 acres of Arizona state mineral leases and 2,024 acres of leased lands. Sierrita receives electrical power through long term contracts with the Tucson Electric Power Company. Although we believe the Sierrita operation has sufficient water resources to support currently planned mining operations, we are a party to litigation that could adversely affect our water rights at Sierrita and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings, for information concerning the status of these proceedings. Bagdad 9 Table of Contents Bagdad is a wholly owned open pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Yavapai County in west central Arizona. It is approximately 60 miles west of Prescott and 100 miles northwest of Phoenix. The property can be reached by Arizona Highway 96, which ends at the town of Bagdad. The closest railroad siding is at Hillside, Arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on Arizona Highway 96. The open pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. The Bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. Chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. The Bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton per day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, an SX/EW plant that can produce up to 25 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low grade dump leaching and a pressure leach plant to process molybdenum concentrate. Copper production for 2009 was 225 million pounds and molybdenum production was six million pounds. The available mining fleet has the capacity to move in excess of 180,000 metric tons of material per day using 24 235 metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 40 to 56 cubic meters. Bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 475 meters above sea level. The Bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,743 acres, comprising 21,143 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims. Bagdad receives electrical power from Arizona Public Service Company. Although we believe the Bagdad operation has sufficient water resources to support currently planned mining operations, we are a party to litigation that could adversely affect our water rights at Bagdad and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings, for information concerning the status of these proceedings. Safford Safford is a wholly owned open pit copper mining complex located in Graham County, Arizona, approximately eight miles north of the town of Safford and 170 miles east of Phoenix. The site is accessible by paved county road off U.S. Highway 70. The Safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. Initial production commenced in late 2007 and ramped up to full production capacity during 2008 before operating plans were revised in fourth quarter 2008 to curtail production. The property is a mine for leach project and produces copper cathodes. The operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day of crushed ore. The crushed ore is delivered to a single leach pad by a series of overland and portable conveyors. Leach solutions feed an SX/EW facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. Copper production for 2009 was 184 million pounds, which reflects the revised operating plan reducing the mining and stacking rate by 50 percent beginning in late 2008. The available mining fleet consists of 23 235 metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with 10 Table of Contents bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of approximately 285,000 metric tons of material per day. Safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. The Safford operation encompasses approximately 24,957 acres, comprising 20,994 acres of patented lands, 3,932 acres of unpatented lands and 31 acres of land held by federal permit. The Safford operations electrical power is provided by Morenci Water and Electric Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of FCX, through the transmission systems of Southwest Transmission Cooperative, a subsidiary of Arizona Electric Power Cooperative, Inc., with most of the power sourced from the Luna Energy facility. Although we believe the Safford operation has sufficient water resources to support currently planned mining operations, we are a party to litigation that could adversely impact the water rights at Safford and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings, for information concerning the status of these proceedings. Miami Miami is a wholly owned open pit copper mining complex located in Gila County, Arizona, approximately 90 miles east of Phoenix and six miles west of the city of Globe on U.S. Highway 60. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. The Miami mine is developed on a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper bearing clays, malachite and azurite; chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. Since about 1915, the Miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies; currently, and since 2002, operations have consisted of residual leaching of stockpiles with copper recovered (from solution) by the SX/EW process. The design capacity of the SX/EW plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. Copper production for 2009 was 16 million pounds. The available mining fleet consists of 24 227 metric ton haul trucks loaded by 3 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of approximately 155,000 metric tons of material per day. In fourth quarter 2009, we initiated plans to restart limited mining activities at the Miami mine, which will improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining activities at the site. During the approximate five year mine life, we expect to ramp up production to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by the second half of 2011. We will be investing approximately $40 million in this project, which will benefit from the use of existing mine equipment. Miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. The Miami operation encompasses approximately 9,058 acres comprising 8,725 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 333 acres of unpatented mining claims. Miami receives electrical power through long term contracts with the Salt River Project and natural gas through long term contracts with El Paso Natural Gas as the transporter. Although we believe the Miami operation has sufficient water resources to support currently planned mining operations, we are a party to litigation that could 11 Table of Contents adversely impact the water rights at Miami and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings, for information concerning the status of these proceedings. Tyrone Our wholly owned Tyrone mine is an open pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. It is located in southwestern New Mexico in Grant County, approximately 10 miles south of Silver City, New Mexico, along State Highway 90. The site is accessible by paved road. The Tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. Mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite. Copper processing facilities consist of an SX/EW operation with a maximum capacity of 168 million pounds of copper cathodes per year. Copper production for 2009 was 86 million pounds, reflecting the revised operating plan which reduced the mining rate by 50 percent beginning in late 2008. The mining rate increased during 2009, and the mine is currently operating at approximately 80 percent of capacity. The available mining fleet has the capacity to move an average of 120,000 metric tons of material per day using 15 240 metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 42 cubic meters. Tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. The Tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,755 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 16,445 acres of unpatented mining claims (includes 1,116 acres overlaying federal minerals on previously counted fee lands). Tyrone receives electrical power from the Luna Energy facility and from the open market. Tyrone also has the ability to self generate power. We believe the Tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support currently planned mining operations. Henderson 12 Table of Contents Our wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of Denver, Colorado, off U.S. Highway 40. Nearby communities include the towns of Empire, Georgetown and Idaho Springs. The Henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from Colorado State Highway 9. The Henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10 mile conveyor tunnel under the Continental Divide and an additional five mile surface conveyor. The tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. The Henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. The Henderson operation consists of a large block cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 29,000 metric tons per day. Henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. The majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our Fort Madison, Iowa, processing facility. Molybdenum production for 2009 was 27 million pounds, which reflects the revised operating plan reducing Hendersons annual production by 40 percent beginning in late 2008 and early 2009. Conditions improved somewhat during 2009 and Henderson is currently operating at approximately 80 percent of capacity. The available underground mining equipment fleet consists of 13 nine metric ton load haul dump (LHD) units and seven 36 and 73 metric ton haul trucks, which feed a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. The Henderson mine is located in a mountain region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. The main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. This region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. The Henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,878 acres, comprising 11,843 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and a 35 acre easement with the U.S. Forest Service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. Henderson operations receive electrical power through long term contracts with Xcel Energy and natural gas through long term contracts with BP Energy, with Xcel Energy as the transporter. We believe the Henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support currently planned mining operations. Non Operating North America Mines In addition to the currently operating mines described above, we have three non operating copper mines in Arizona: Ajo, Bisbee and Tohono; two in New Mexico: Chino (with limited residual copper production from leaching operations) and Cobre; and the Climax molybdenum mine in Colorado, all of which are currently on care and maintenance status. In response to market conditions during fourth quarter 2008, we placed the Chino mine on care and maintenance status in December 2008. The remainder of these copper mines have been on care and maintenance status for several years and would require significant capital investment to return them to operating status. Several of the non operating Arizona and New Mexico copper mines continue to produce copper cathode from stockpiles. Copper production in 2009 from these mines totaled 36 million pounds. During fourth quarter 2008, we also suspended construction activities associated with the project to restart the Climax molybdenum mine, which would have an annual capacity of 30 million pounds of molybdenum with expansion options. We continue to monitor market conditions to determine timing for restarting construction of this project. Once a decision is made to resume construction activities, the project could be completed within 18 months. Remaining costs for the project are estimated to approximate $350 million. South America At our operations in South America, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. The claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have an ownership interest. Roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. 13 Table of Contents Cerro Verde We have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in Cerro Verde. The remaining 46.44 percent is held by SMM Cerro Verde Netherlands B.V. (21.0 percent), Compaia de Minas Buenaventura S.A.A. (19.3 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the Lima Stock Exchange (6.14 percent). Cerro Verde is an open pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of Arequipa, Peru. The site is accessible by paved highway. The Cerro Verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. Chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. Cerro Verdes current operation consists of an open pit copper mine, concentrator and SX/EW leaching facilities. Leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton per day crushed leach facility and a ROM leach system. This leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. A 108,000 metric ton per day concentrator was completed in late 2006 and began processing of sulfide ore in the fourth quarter of 2006. Copper production for 2009 was 662 million pounds and molybdenum production was 2 million pounds. We have commenced a project to optimize throughput at the concentrator. The project, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2010, is designed to add 30 million pounds of additional copper production per year by increasing mill throughput from 108,000 metric tons of ore per day to 120,000 metric tons of ore per day. The total capital investment for this project is expected to approximate $50 million. Cerro Verde has sufficient equipment to move an average of 308,000 metric tons of material per day using an available fleet of 28 180 metric ton and 230 metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 21 to 53 cubic meters. Approximately one third of Cerro Verdes copper cathode production is sold locally and the remaining copper cathodes and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and rail to the Pacific Port of Matarani for shipment to international markets. Cerro Verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 2,900 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 2,000 meters above sea level. Cerro Verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,007 acres plus 24 acres of owned property and 79 acres of rights of way outside the mining concession area. Cerro Verde receives electrical power under long term contracts with Electroperu and Empresa de Generacin Elctrica de Arequipa. Water for our Cerro Verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Cerro Verdes participation in the Pillones Reservoir Project has secured water rights that we believe will be sufficient to support Cerro Verdes currently planned operations. With the completion of the Bamputae dam during 2009, an additional 40 million cubic meters of water storage was added to the system. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 14 Table of Contents El Abra We own a 51 percent interest in El Abra. The remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state owned copper enterprise Corporacin Nacional del Cobre de Chile (CODELCO). El Abra is an open pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of Calama in Chiles El Loa province, Region II. The site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. The El Abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. There are lesser amounts of copper bearing clays and tenorite. The predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. There is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. The El Abra operation consists of an open pit copper mine and an SX/EW facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 120,000 metric ton per day crushed leach circuit and a similar sized, ROM leaching operation. Copper production for 2009 was 358 million pounds. The mining operation has sufficient equipment to move an average of 223,000 metric tons of material per day using an available fleet of 26 220 metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters. We have resumed construction activities associated with the development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra that will extend the mine life by over ten years. Production from the sulfide ore, which will be ramping up to approximately 300 million pounds of copper per year is expected to begin in 2012 and will replace the current oxide copper production that is expected to decline over the next several years. The project will use a portion of the existing facilities to process the additional sulfide ore. Total capital for the project is estimated to approximate $700 million through 2015, of which approximately $500 million is for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in 2012. El Abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,410 meters above sea level. El Abra controls a total of 110,268 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. In addition, El Abra has acquired land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the Salar de Ascotn. El Abra currently receives electrical power under a contract with Electroandina, which will expire at the end of 2017. Water for our El Abra processing operations comes from pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn pursuant to regulatory approval. We believe El Abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 15 Table of Contents Candelaria and Ojos del Salado Candelaria. We have an 80 percent ownership interest in Candelaria. The remaining 20 percent interest is owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation. Candelarias open pit mine has been in operation since 1993 and the underground mine has been in operation since 2005. The Candelaria copper mining complex is located approximately 12 miles south of Copiap in northern Chiles Atacama province, Region III. The site is accessible by two maintained dirt roads, one coming through the Tierra Amarilla community and the other off of Route 5 of the International Pan American Highway. The Candelaria mine is an iron oxide, copper/gold deposit. Primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite. The Candelaria operation consists of an open pit copper mine and a 6,000 metric ton per day underground copper mine, which is mined by sublevel stoping, feeding a 75,000 metric ton per day concentrator. On average, open pit mining operations move 235,000 metric tons of material per day using an available fleet of 38 225 metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 13 to 43 cubic meters. Copper concentrates are transported by truck to the Punta Padrones port facility located in Caldera, approximately 50 miles northwest of the mine. Copper production for 2009 was 296 million pounds and gold production was 74,000 ounces. Candelaria is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 675 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 30 meters below sea level. The Candelaria property encompasses approximately 13,390 acres, including approximately 125 acres for the port facility in Caldera. The remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean law. Candelaria receives electrical power through long term contracts with Empresa Elctrica Guacolda S.A., a local energy company. Candelarias water supply comes from well fields in the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiap that draw water from the Copiap River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of that aquifer in recent years, ongoing studies are addressing the adequacy of this water supply for Candelarias currently planned operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Ojos del Salado. We have an 80 percent ownership interest in Ojos del Salado. The remaining 20 percent interest is owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation. The Ojos del Salado operation began commercial production in 1929 and consists of two underground copper mines (Santos and Alcaparrosa) and a 3,800 metric ton per day concentrator. The operation is located approximately 10 miles east of Copiap in northern Chiles Atacama province, Region III, and is accessible by paved highway. The Ojos del Salado mines are iron oxide and copper/gold deposits. Primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite. The Ojos del Salado operation has a capacity of 3,800 metric tons per day of ore from the Santos underground mine and 4,000 metric tons of ore per day from the Alcaparrosa underground mine. The ore from both mines is mined by sublevel stoping since both the ore and enclosing rocks are competent. The broken ore is removed from the stopes using scoops and loaded into an available fleet of 18 28 metric ton trucks, which transport the ore to the surface. The ore from the Santos mine is hauled directly to the Ojos del Salado mill for processing, and the 16 Table of Contents ore from the Alcaparrosa mine is reloaded into five 54 metric ton trucks and hauled seven miles to the Candelaria mill for processing. The Ojos del Salado concentrator has the capacity to produce over 30 million pounds of copper and 9,000 ounces of gold per year. Copper production for 2009 was 74 million pounds and gold production was 18,000 ounces. Tailings from the Ojos del Salado mill are pumped to the Candelaria tailings facility for final deposition. The Candelaria facility has sufficient capacity for the remaining Ojos del Salado tailings in addition to Candelarias tailings. Ojos del Salado is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest underground level is at an elevation of 500 meters above sea level, with the lowest underground level at 150 meters above sea level. The Ojos del Salado mineral rights encompass approximately 15,815 acres, which includes approximately 6,784 acres of owned land in and around the Ojos del Salado underground mines and plant site. The remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean law. Ojos del Salado receives electrical power through long term contracts with Empresa Elctrica Guacolda S.A. Ojos del Salados water supply comes from well fields in the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiap that draw water from the Copiap River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, ongoing studies are addressing the adequacy of this water supply for Ojos del Salados currently planned operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Indonesia Ownership PT Freeport Indonesia is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the Republic of Indonesia and incorporated in Delaware. We directly own 81.28 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, 9.36 percent indirectly through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama, and the Government of Indonesia owns the remaining 9.36 percent. In July 2004, we received a request from the Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources that we offer to sell shares in PT Indocopper Investama to Indonesian nationals at fair market value. Refer to Note 15 for additional discussion. In 1996, we established certain unincorporated joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc (Rio Tinto), an international mining company with headquarters in London, England. Pursuant to the joint venture agreements, Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021 in Block A, and, after 2021, a 40 percent interest in all production from Block A. Refer to Note 3 for further discussion of the joint venture with Rio Tinto. Contracts of Work Through a Contract of Work (COW) with the Government of Indonesia, PT Freeport Indonesia conducts its current exploration and mining operations in Indonesia. The COW governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which expresses Indonesias foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. Specifically, the COW provides that the Government of Indonesia will not nationalize or expropriate PT Freeport Indonesias mining operations. Any disputes regarding the provisions of the COW are subject to international arbitration. We have experienced no disputes requiring arbitration during the 41 years we have operated in Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesias COW covers both Block A, which was first included in a 1967 COW that was replaced by a new COW in 1991, and Block B in which we gained rights in 1991. The initial term of our COW expires in December 2021, but we can extend it for two 10 year periods subject to Indonesian government approval that cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. The COW allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700 acre Block A area, located in Papua. All of PT Freeport Indonesias proven and probable mineral reserves and current mining operations are located in Block A. Under the COW, PT Freeport Indonesia also conducts exploration activities (which had been suspended in 2009, but will resume in 2010) in the approximate 500,000 acre Block B area, in Papua. We originally had the rights to explore 6.5 million acres in Block B, but pursuant to the COW we have only retained the rights to approximately 500,000 acres following 17 Table of Contents significant geological assessment. PT Freeport Indonesia pays a copper royalty under its COW that varies from 1.5 percent of copper net revenue at a copper price of $0.90 or less per pound to 3.5 percent at a copper price of $1.10 or more per pound. The COW royalty rate for gold and silver sales is 1.0 percent. A large part of the mineral royalties under Government of Indonesia regulations are designated to the provinces from which the minerals are extracted. In connection with our fourth concentrator mill expansion completed in 1998, PT Freeport Indonesia agreed to pay the Government of Indonesia additional royalties (royalties not required by our COW) to provide further support to the local governments and the people of the Indonesia province of Papua. The additional royalties are paid on production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver expected to be generated when PT Freeport Indonesias milling facilities operate above 200,000 metric tons of ore per day. The additional royalty for copper equals the COW royalty rate and for gold and silver equals twice the COW royalty rates. Therefore, PT Freeport Indonesias royalty rate on copper net revenues from production above the agreed levels is double the COW royalty rate, and royalty rates on gold and silver sales from production above the agreed levels are triple the COW royalty rates. PT Freeport Indonesias share of the combined royalties, including the additional royalties which became effective January 1, 1999, totaled $147 million in 2009, $113 million in 2008 and $133 million in 2007. PT Irja Eastern Minerals (Eastern Minerals), of which we own 100 percent, conducts exploration through a joint venture agreement, under a separate COW in an area covering approximately 450,000 acres in Papua. The Eastern Minerals COW was under suspension during 2009. Under a joint venture agreement through PT Nabire Bakti Mining (PTNBM), we conduct exploration activities under a separate COW in an area covering approximately 500,000 acres in five parcels contiguous to PT Freeport Indonesias Block B and one of Eastern Minerals blocks. The PTNBM COW was under suspension for much of 2009, but will resume in 2010. In 2008, Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the COW system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia, Eastern Minerals and PTNBM. In 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2008 mining law and certain provisions address existing COWs. The regulations provide that COWs will continue to be honored until their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to any extension periods of COWs even though our COWs provide for two ten year extension periods under the existing terms of our COWs. 18 Table of Contents Grasberg Minerals District PT Freeport Indonesia operates in the remote highlands of the Sudirman Mountain Range in the province of Papua, Indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of New Guinea. We and our predecessors have conducted exploration and mining operations in Block A since 1967 and have been the only operator of these operations. We currently have two mines in operation: the Grasberg open pit and the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground block cave. We also have significant development projects in the Grasberg minerals district, which are discussed in more detail in Development Projects and Exploration below and in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. Grasberg Open Pit. We began open pit mining of the Grasberg ore body in 1990. Open pit operations are expected to continue through mid 2016, at which time underground mining operations are scheduled to begin at our Grasberg Block Cave mine, which is currently in development. Production is currently at the 3,295 to 4,285 meter elevation level and totaled 57 million metric tons of ore in 2009 and 49 million metric tons of ore in 2008, which provided 70 percent of our 2009 mill feed and 67 percent of our 2008 mill feed. Remaining mill feed comes from our DOZ mine. The current Grasberg equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. The larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 163 haul trucks with payloads ranging from approximately 215 metric tons to 330 metric tons and 18 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 cubic meters to 42 cubic meters, which in 2009 moved an average of 725,000 metric tons per day. Grasberg crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity to transport up to 225,000 metric tons per day of Grasberg ore to the mill and 135,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. The remaining ore and overburden is moved by haul trucks. Deep Ore Zone. The DOZ ore body lies vertically below the now depleted Intermediate Ore Zone. We began production from the DOZ ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but we suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the Grasberg deposit. Production resumed in September 2000 using the block cave method. Production is at the 3,110 meter elevation level and totaled 26 million metric tons of ore in 2009 and 23 million metric tons in 2008. Production at the DOZ mine is expected to continue through 2020 and we plan to ramp up production at our Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) block cave mine, which is currently under development, beginning in 2015. During 2009, we completed over 11,000 meters of development drifting in support of the block cave mining method for the DOZ mine. Further expansion of the DOZ operation to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day is substantially complete. The success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the worlds largest underground 19 Table of Contents mines, provides confidence in the future development of PT Freeport Indonesias large scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. The DOZ mine fleet consists of over 185 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which in 2009 moved an average of 72,000 metric tons of ore per day. The primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 49 load haul dump (LHD) units and 23 haul trucks. Our production LHD units typically carry approximately 11 metric tons of ore. Using ore passes and chutes, the LHD units transfer ore into 55 ton capacity haul trucks. The trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles. PT Freeport Indonesias total production for 2009 was 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.6 million ounces of gold. Our principal source of power for all our Indonesian operations is a coal fired power plant that we built in conjunction with our fourth concentrator mill expansion. Diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. A combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. Our Indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. Description of Ore Bodies. Our Indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the Grasberg monzodiorite and the Ertsberg diorite. The host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the Sudirman Range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. The igneous hosted ore bodies (the Grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the DOZ block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a much lesser extent, bornite. The sedimentary rock hosted ore bodies occur as magnetite rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. The copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is also dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. Moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the districts ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. These gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. The following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported ore bodies. 20 Table of Contents The following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported ore bodies and their locations. Africa At Tenke Fungurume, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining concessions under general mining laws and our mining rights remain in force as long as the concessions are exploitable. The concessions are owned or controlled by operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have an ownership interest. Tenke Fungurume We own an effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume minerals district. The remaining ownership interests are held by Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin) (an effective 24.75 percent interest) and La Gnrale des Carrires et des Mines (Gcamines), which is wholly owned by the Government of the DRC (17.5 percent non dilutable interest). 21 Table of Contents In 2009, we completed the approximate $2 billion initial project at the Tenke Fungurume minerals district. Pursuant to our agreement with Lundin, we were responsible for funding our share (70 percent) of the project development costs and 100 percent of certain cost overruns on the initial project. We and Lundin will be repaid our advances prior to distributions to the stockholders of Tenke Fungurume. Accordingly, we will receive a disproportionate share of cash flow until the cost overrun financing and advances are repaid. Additionally, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, Gcamines will receive asset transfer payments totaling $100 million, $80 million of which have already been paid and the remainder of which will be paid over the next two years. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are located in the Katanga province of the DRC approximately 110 miles northwest of Lubumbashi. The deposits are accessible by unpaved roads and by rail. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are sediment hosted copper and cobalt deposits with oxide, mixed oxide sulfide and sulfide mineralization. The dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. Important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite. Copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation leach plant capable of processing 8,000 metric tons of ore per day. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and achieved targeted production rates in September 2009. The cobalt and sulphuric acid plants were commissioned in September 2009 and we continue to address start up and quality issues in the cobalt circuit and expect to reach sustained targeted production rates during 2010. Current operations are designed to produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year. The current equipment fleet includes 10 five cubic meter front end loaders, 29 45 metric ton haul trucks, surface miners, production drills, sampling machines and crawler dozers. We commenced a feasibility study in fourth quarter 2009 to evaluate a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and potentially increasing capacity by approximately 50 percent. The feasibility study is expected to be completed by mid year 2010. The timing of these expansions will depend on a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions. Tenke Fungurume is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. Weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,480 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,270 meters above sea level. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are located within four concessions totaling 394,455 acres. Tenke Fungurume has entered into long term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with La Socit Nationale dElectricit (SNEL), the state owned electric utility company serving the region. The results of a recent water exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available for the project, and for hydro electric generation during the expected life of the operation. In February 2008, the Ministry of Mines, Government of the DRC, sent a letter seeking comment on proposed material modifications to the mining contracts for the Tenke Fungurume concession. We are continuing to work cooperatively with the DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review but cannot predict the timing or outcome of the process. The contract review process has not affected our development schedule and we are continuing to operate pursuant to the terms of our contract. We believe the contract is fair and equitable, complies with Congolese law and is enforceable without modification. 22 Table of Contents PRODUCTION DATA For comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. COPPER Years Ended December 31, (millions of recoverable pounds) 2009 2008 2007a 2006a 2005a MINED COPPER (FCXs net interest in %) North America Morenci (85%)b 428 626 687 693 680 Bagdad (100%) 225 227 202 165 201 Safford (100%) 184 133 1 Sierrita (100%) 170 188 150 162 158 Tyrone (100%) 86 76 50 64 81 Chino (100%) 36 155 190 186 210 Miami (100%) 16 19 20 19 25 Other (100%) 2 6 20 16 10 Total North America 1,147 1,430 1,320 c 1,305 1,365 South America Cerro Verde (53.56%) 662 694 594 222 206 Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%) 370 446 453 429 421 El Abra (51%) 358 366 366 482 464 Total South America 1,390 1,506 1,413 c 1,133 1,091 Indonesia Grasberg (90.64%)d 1,412 1,094 1,151 1,201 1,456 Africa Tenke Fungurume (57.75%) 154 Consolidated 4,103 4,030 3,884 3,639 3,912 Less noncontrolling participants share 754 693 653 537 543 Net 3,349 3,337 3,231 3,102 3,369 GOLD (thousands of recoverable ounces) MINED GOLD (FCXs net interest in %) North America (100%)b 4 14 15 19 17 South America (80%) 92 114 116 e 112 117 Indonesia (90.64%)d 2,568 1,163 2,198 1,732 2,789 Consolidated 2,664 1,291 2,329 1,863 2,923 Less noncontrolling participants share 258 132 229 184 284 Net 2,406 1,159 2,100 1,679 2,639 MOLYBDENUM (millions of recoverable pounds) MINED MOLYBDENUM (FCXs net interest in %) Henderson (100%) 27 40 39 f 37 32 By product North America (100%)b 25 30 30 31 30 By product Cerro Verde (53.56%) 2 3 1 Consolidated 54 73 70 68 62 Less noncontrolling participants share 1 1 Net 53 72 70 68 62 a. For comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Amounts are net of Morencis 15 percent joint venture partner interest. c. Includes North America copper production of 258 million pounds and South America copper production of 259 million pounds for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. d. Amounts are net of Grasbergs joint venture partners interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. e. Includes gold production of 21 thousand ounces for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. f. Includes molybdenum production of 14 million pounds for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. 23 Table of Contents SALES DATA For comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. Years Ended December 31, COPPER (millions of recoverable pounds) 2009 2008 2007a 2006a 2005a MINED COPPER (FCXs net interest in %) North America Morenci (85%)b 459 646 693 692 680 Bagdad (100%) 225 226 200 165 209 Safford (100%) 176 107 Sierrita (100%) 172 184 157 161 165 Tyrone (100%) 85 71 53 64 81 Chino (100%) 52 174 186 186 209 Miami (100%) 16 20 24 19 29 Other (100%) 2 6 19 16 10 Total North America 1,187 1,434 1,332 c 1,303 1,383 South America Cerro Verde (53.56%) 667 701 587 214 205 Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%) 366 455 447 425 421 El Abra (51%) 361 365 365 487 467 Total South America 1,394 1,521 1,399 c 1,126 1,093 Indonesia Grasberg (90.64%)d 1,400 1,111 1,131 1,201 1,457 Africa Tenke Fungurume (57.75%) 130 Consolidated 4,111 4,066 3,862 3,630 3,933 Less minority participants share 746 699 647 535 545 Net 3,365 3,367 3,215 3,095 3,388 Consolidated sales from mines 4,111 4,066 3,862 3,630 3,933 Purchased copper 166 483 650 736 821 Total consolidated sales 4,277 4,549 4,512 4,366 4,754 Average realized price per pound $2.60 $2.69 $3.22 e $2.80 e $1.66 e GOLD (thousands of recoverable ounces) MINED GOLD (FCXs net interest in %) North America (100%)b 6 16 21 19 18 South America (80%) 90 116 114 f 111 117 Indonesia (90.64%)d 2,543 1,182 2,185 1,736 2,790 Consolidated 2,639 1,314 2,320 1,866 2,925 Less minority participants share 256 134 228 185 285 Net 2,383 1,180 2,092 1,681 2,640 Consolidated sales from mines 2,639 1,314 2,320 1,866 2,925 Purchased gold 1 2 6 12 12 Total consolidated sales 2,640 1,316 2,326 1,878 2,937 Average realized price per ounce $993 $861 $682 $566 g $454 MOLYBDENUM (millions of recoverable pounds) Consolidated sales from mines 58 71 69 h 69 60 Less minority participants share 1 1 Net 57 70 69 69 60 Consolidated sales from mines 58 71 69 69 60 Purchased molybdenum 6 8 9 8 13 Total consolidated sales 64 79 78 77 73 Average realized price per pound $12.36 $30.55 $25.87 $21.87 $25.89 24 Table of Contents a. For comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Amounts are net of Morencis joint venture partners 15 percent interest. c. Includes North America copper sales of 283 million pounds and South America copper sales of 222 million pounds for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. d. Amounts are net of Grasbergs joint venture partners interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. e. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.27 per pound for 2007, $3.08 per pound for 2006 and $1.76 per pound for 2005. f. Includes gold sales of 18 thousand ounces for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. g. Amount was approximately $606 per ounce before a loss on redemption of our Gold Denominated Preferred Stock, Series II. h. Includes molybdenum sales of 17 million pounds for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AND EXPLORATION We have several projects and potential opportunities to expand our production volumes, extend our mine lives and develop large scale underground ore bodies. During fourth quarter 2008, we deferred several project development activities because of the downturn in global economic conditions. Major development projects for 2009 consisted of underground development in the Grasberg minerals district and the Tenke Fungurume project, for which construction activities on the initial project are complete. During fourth quarter 2009, we announced that we are resuming certain project development activities that were deferred. For further discussion of our development projects and exploration activities, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. As discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we have several projects in progress in the Grasberg mineral district, including development of the Common Infrastructure project, Grasberg Block Cave, the Big Gossan underground mine, a further expansion of the DOZ underground mine (which is substantially complete) and development of the Deep Mill Level Zone ore body. We also have an additional long term underground mine development project in the Grasberg minerals district for the Kucing Liar ore body, which is discussed below and is based on our latest mine plans and proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 2009. The Kucing Liar ore body lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the Grasberg open pit at the 2,605 meter elevation level. We expect to mine the Kucing Liar ore body using the block cave method. A pre feasibility study for the development of the Kucing Liar ore body was completed during 2009 and indicated aggregate capital costs of approximately $2.5 billion. Based on current estimates, we expect aggregate expenditures for underground mine development in the Grasberg minerals district to average approximately $450 million annually during the next 15 years. These costs will be shared with Rio Tinto in accordance with our joint venture agreement. Considering the long term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates. In addition to the mine development costs above, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once Grasberg open pit operations cease. Substantially all of these expenditures will be made between 2017 and 2029. We continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our reserves. SMELTING FACILITIES Atlantic Copper, S.A. Atlantic Copper is our wholly owned copper smelter and refinery located in Huelva, Spain. Atlantic Copper completed the last expansion of its production capacity in 1997. The design capacity of the smelter is 290,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity of 260,000 metric tons of copper per year. We have no present plans to expand Atlantic Coppers production capacity. Atlantic Coppers facilities are located on land concessions from the Huelva, Spain port authorities and expire in 2027. During 2009, Atlantic Copper treated 1,000,700 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 269,000 metric tons of copper anodes and 256,600 metric tons of copper cathodes. During 2008, Atlantic Copper treated 1,028,100 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 259,900 metric tons of copper anodes and 257,100 metric tons of copper cathodes. In June 2007, Atlantic Copper completed a scheduled 23 day maintenance turnaround. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every 12 years for Atlantic Copper, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds occurring in the interim. The next scheduled maintenance 25 Table of Contents activity at Atlantic Copper is in 2011. During 2009, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 35 percent of its concentrate requirements from PT Freeport Indonesia and approximately 25 percent from our South America copper mines at market prices. Atlantic Copper has experienced no significant operating problems. We made no capital contributions to Atlantic Copper from 2005 through 2009. We loan funds to Atlantic Copper from time to time, and at December 31, 2009, these loans totaled $381 million. Our net investment in Atlantic Copper at December 31, 2009, was approximately $70 million. PT Smelting. PT Freeport Indonesias 1991 COW required us to construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in Indonesia if we and the Indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. In 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of PT Smelting, an Indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation (Mitsubishi Materials), Mitsubishi Corporation (Mitsubishi) and Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd. (Nippon) own 25 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5 percent, and 5 percent, respectively, of the outstanding PT Smelting common stock. PT Smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. During 2006, PT Smelting completed an expansion of its production capacity to 275,000 metric tons of copper per year from 250,000 metric tons. PT Freeport Indonesias contract with PT Smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements necessary for PT Smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually (essentially the smelters original design capacity) on a priority basis. For the first 15 years of PT Smeltings commercial operations, beginning December 1998, PT Freeport Indonesia agreed that the combined treatment and refining charges (fees paid to smelters by miners) would approximate market rates, but will not fall below specified minimum rates. The minimum rate, applicable to the period April 27, 2008 to April 27, 2014, is to be determined annually and to be sufficient to cover PT Smeltings annual cash operating costs (net of credits and including costs of debt service) for 205,000 metric tons of copper. The maximum rate is $0.30 per pound. The agreement is an amendment to the long term contract, which was approved by the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Government of Indonesia in 2009. PT Freeport Indonesia also sells copper concentrate to PT Smelting at market rates, which are not subject to a minimum or maximum rate, for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. During 2009, PT Smelting treated 1,073,900 metric tons of concentrate and produced 310,200 metric tons of copper anodes and 286,000 metric tons of copper cathodes. During 2008, PT Smelting treated 978,100 metric tons of concentrate and produced 261,300 metric tons of copper anodes and 253,400 metric tons of copper cathodes. Higher volumes of anodes in 2009, compared to 2008, primarily reflect a 25 day maintenance turnaround in the second quarter of 2008. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every four years for PT Smelting, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. Miami Smelter. We own and operate a smelter at our Miami, Arizona mining operation. The smelter processes concentrate primarily from our Arizona mines. The smelter has been in production for over 80 years and has been upgraded during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with current air quality standards. Concentrate processed through the smelter totaled approximately 619,000 metric tons in 2009 and 719,000 metric tons in 2008. The Miami smelter completed a 40 day major maintenance turnaround in February 2009. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every 20 months for Miami, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. Sulphuric acid is a by product of smelting concentrates, and the Miami smelter is the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our U.S. leaching operations. OTHER PROPERTIES Rod & Refining Operations. Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in North America including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut and Miami, Arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper anode production from our smelter in Miami, Arizona, along with purchased anodes, at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all the copper anode we produce at Miami. Our El Paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. 26 Table of Contents Molybdenum Conversion Facilities. We process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as technical grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. We operate molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The conversion facility located at our Sierrita mine consists of two molybdenum roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a toll basis for third parties. The facility produces molybdenum oxide and related products. The Fort Madison, Iowa, facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphuric acid plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical conversion plant, which includes a wet chemicals plant, sublimation equipment and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. In the chemical plant, molybdic oxide is further refined into various high purity molybdenum chemicals for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. In addition to metallurgical oxide products, the Fort Madison facility produces ammonium dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum disulfide. The Rotterdam conversion facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid plant, metallurgical packaging facility and chemical conversion plant. The plant produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. Ammonium dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet chemicals plant. We also produce ferromolybdenum for worldwide customers at our conversion plant located in Stowmarket, United Kingdom. The plant is operated both as an internal and external customer tolling facility. SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS Energy (including electricity, diesel fuel, coal and natural gas), sulphuric acid and water are the principal raw materials used in our operations. Most of our energy is obtained from third parties under long term contracts. For additional information, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Sulphuric acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by product of the smelting process at our smelters. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties as needed. Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. COMPETITION We are one of the worlds largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. With respect to copper, which generated approximately 75 percent of our mining revenues in 2009, the top 10 producers comprise approximately 55 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. We currently rank second among those producers at approximately 10 percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. Our competitive position is based on the quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. We have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. Our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. The metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs. 27 Table of Contents LABOR MATTERS At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 28,400 people (approximately 11,900 in Indonesia, 8,400 in North America, 4,400 in South America, 2,900 in Africa and 800 in Europe and other locations). Additionally, we have contractors that have personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 8,600 at our Grasberg minerals district, 4,900 at our South America operations, 2,100 at Tenke Fungurume, 600 in North America and 400 at Atlantic Copper. Employees represented by unions are listed below, with the approximate number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements. Number of Union Number of Represented Location Unions Employees Expiration Date PT Freeport Indonesia Indonesia 1 6,794 September 2011 Tenke Fungurume DRC 2 2,927 May 2010 Cerro Verde Peru 1 1,023 August 2011 El Abra Chile 2 794 July 2012 Candelaria Chile 2 603 July 2013 Atlantic Copper Spain 2 402 December 2011 Bayway New Jersey 1 50 April 2010 Stowmarket United Kingdom 1 40 May 2011 Aurex Chile 1 33 December 2013 Rotterdam The Netherlands 2 22 March 2011 Chino New Mexico 1 14 November 2009a a. Negotiations are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of the expired contract. FM Services Company (FM Services), a wholly owned subsidiary of FCX, furnishes certain executive, administrative, financial, accounting, legal, tax and similar services to us. As of December 31, 2009, FM Services had 167 employees. FM Services employees also provide these services to two other publicly traded companies. ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS The costs of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, see Item 1A. Risk Factors; Item 3. Legal Proceedings; Note 1 and Note 14. COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS We have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate that are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. We continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs cultural preservation programs water and sewage treatment projects clean water access charitable donations 28 Table of Contents In December 2000, we endorsed the joint U.S. State Department British Foreign Office Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security (Voluntary Principles). Several major natural resources companies and international human rights organizations participated in developing the Voluntary Principles and have endorsed them. We participated in developing these principles and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. We believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. Nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. South America. Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. During 2006, as a result of discussions with local mayors in the Arequipa region, Cerro Verde agreed to contribute to the design and construction of domestic water and sewage treatment plants for the benefit of the region. These facilities are being designed in a modular fashion so that initial installations can be readily expanded in the future. We have funded approximately 150 million Peruvian nuevo soles (approximately $49 million) as of December 31, 2009, to a designated bank account to be used for financing Cerro Verdes share of the construction costs of these facilities. During 2006, the Peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in Peru will make annual contributions to local development funds for a five year period when copper prices exceed certain levels that are adjusted annually. The contribution is equal to 3.75 percent of after tax profits, of which 2.75 percent is contributed to a local mining fund and 1.00 percent to a regional mining fund. Cerro Verdes contributions totaled $28 million in both 2009 and 2008 and $49 million in 2007. Indonesia. In 1996, PT Freeport Indonesia established the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development (formerly the Freeport Fund for Irian Jaya Development), through which PT Freeport Indonesia has made available funding and technical assistance to support the economic, health, education and social development of the area. PT Freeport Indonesia has committed through 2011 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the Partnership Fund. Our share of contributions to the Partnership Fund totaled $59 million in 2009, $34 million in 2008 and $48 million in 2007. Our joint venture partner, Rio Tinto, also contributes to this fund and, including their share, the contributions totaled $69 million in 2009, $35 million in 2008 and $53 million in 2007. The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pembangunan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoro or LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of PT Freeport Indonesia on each board. The Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. Security Matters in Indonesia. Consistent with our COW in Indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As part of its security program, PT Freeport Indonesia maintains its own internal security department, which performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring the shipment of company goods through the airport and terminal, assisting in traffic control and aiding rescue operations. PT Freeport Indonesias civilian security employees (numbering approximately 725) are unarmed and perform duties consistent with their internal security role. PT Freeport Indonesias share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled approximately $18 million for 2009, $22 million for 2008 and $17 million for 2007. The security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy. PT Freeport Indonesia, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the Government of Indonesia for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals district has been designated by the Government of Indonesia as one of Indonesias vital national assets. This designation results in the police and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. The Government of Indonesia is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. From the outset of PT Freeport Indonesias operations, the government has looked to PT Freeport Indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited 29 Table of Contents resources of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in Papua. PT Freeport Indonesias financial support for the Indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol PT Freeport Indonesias roads and secure its operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT Freeport Indonesias obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. PT Freeport Indonesias share of support costs for the government provided security, currently involving approximately 3,000 Indonesian government security personnel located in the general area of our operations, was $10 million for 2009, $8 million for 2008 and $9 million for 2007. This supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. PT Freeport Indonesias capital costs for associated infrastructure was approximately $2 million in 2009 and less than $1 million a year in 2008 and 2007. Since July 2009, there have been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at the Grasberg mining complex, including an incident in January 2010. In connection with these incidents, there have been three fatalities (including a PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. As originally reported in January 2006, we received and responded to requests from U.S. governmental authorities related to PT Freeport Indonesias support of Indonesian security institutions. In May 2009, we were notified by the SEC that the U.S. governments investigation had been completed and no action has been recommended. Africa. Tenke Fungurume has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the Katanga province of the DRC. Initiatives that have commenced over the past three years include a malaria control program, construction and operational support for six elementary schools, installation of over 40 clean water wells throughout the concession as well as five villages outside the concession, a public sanitation (latrines and hand washing) program reaching over 2,000 households, a mobile clinic for rural villages, and economic development programs supporting local entrepreneurs, farmers and womens income generation, and literacy groups. We have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems. Additionally, we have committed to contribute 0.3 percent of net sales revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services, such as those pertaining to health, education and economic development. This fund will be a platform to work jointly with the local government and community to further assist them to fulfill their local development plans, meet basic community needs and promote good governance. Community development fund contributions for 2009 totaled approximately $1 million. Similar to our operations in Indonesia, Tenke Fungurume is required to engage government security institutions to assist with security matters at its concession area. In this regard, Tenke Fungurume provides food, housing, monetary allowances and logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. The total cost to Tenke Fungurume for this support, including in kind support, totaled less than $1 million in 2009. 30 Table of Contents ORE RESERVES Recoverable proven and probable reserves summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of December 31, 2009, in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. Proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. The term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term proven reserves means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. The term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Our reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. Estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2009, were determined using long term average prices of $1.60 per pound for copper, $550 per ounce for gold, $8.00 per pound for molybdenum, $12.00 per ounce for silver and $10.00 per pound for cobalt. The London spot metal prices for the past three years averaged $2.91 per pound for copper and $847 per ounce for gold, and molybdenum prices for the past three years averaged approximately $23 per pound. Recoverable Proven and Probable Reservesa at December 31, 2009 Copper Gold Molybdenum Silver Cobalt (billion pounds) (million ounces) (million pounds) (million ounces) (billion pounds) North America 27.7 0.2 2,072 56.5 South America 34.0 1.5 519 88.3 Indonesia 34.1 35.5 125.6 Africa 8.4 0.78 Consolidated basisb 104.2 37.2 2,591 270.4 0.78 Net equity interestc 83.0 33.6 2,350 224.1 0.45 a. Recoverable proven and probable reserves are estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Recoverable copper reserves in this table include 2.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles, including our joint venture partners interest in the Morenci mine. b. Consolidated basis reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. c. Net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 31 Table of Contents Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves Estimated at December 31, 2009 Proven Reserves Probable Reserves Average Ore Grade Average Ore Grade Processing Million Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Million Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Method metric tons % g/t % g/t % metric tons % g/t % g/t % North America Morenci Mill 177 0.55 0.025 1 0.77 Crushed leach 358 0.62 7 0.62 ROM leach 2,554 0.20 69 0.24 Sierrita Mill 1,310 0.26 b 0.029 1.51 131 0.23 b 0.023 1.34 ROM leach 4 0.18 1 0.13 Bagdad Mill 660 0.37 b 0.022 1.84 99 0.30 b 0.018 1.49 ROM leach 95 0.17 110 0.15 Safford Crushed leach 147 0.45 96 0.43 Tyrone ROM leach 138 0.32 42 0.24 Henderson Mill 134 0.180 4 0.190 Chino Mill 54 0.66 0.03 0.013 0.49 6 0.55 0.03 0.014 0.42 ROM leach 68 0.41 14 0.30 Miami ROM leach 74 0.44 17 0.35 Climaxa Mill 76 0.189 114 0.137 Cobrea ROM leach 71 0.40 2 0.23 5,920 0.28 b 0.016 0.54 713 0.23 b 0.030 0.46 South America Cerro Verde Mill 746 0.45 0.017 1.28 2,063 0.39 0.015 1.12 Crushed leach 89 0.57 73 0.48 ROM leach 32 0.26 50 0.23 El Abra Crushed leach 440 0.55 112 0.50 ROM leach 284 0.32 140 0.30 Candelaria Mill 382 0.54 0.12 2.04 29 0.59 0.13 2.22 Ojos del Salado Mill 6 1.13 0.26 3.18 3 1.08 0.25 3.02 1,979 0.47 0.02 0.006 0.89 2,470 0.39 b 0.012 0.96 Indonesia Grasberg open pit Mill 198 0.96 1.15 2.39 134 0.81 0.86 2.04 Deep Ore Zone Mill 85 0.65 0.64 3.24 169 0.57 0.68 2.58 Grasberg block cavea Mill 308 1.23 1.15 3.49 698 0.94 0.66 3.19 Kucing Liara Mill 156 1.32 1.15 7.51 285 1.20 1.06 6.57 Deep Mill Level Zonea Mill 59 1.00 0.78 4.94 442 0.87 0.74 4.38 Big Gossana Mill 10 2.49 1.26 17.04 46 2.20 1.04 13.66 816 1.12 1.07 4.24 1,774 0.95 0.77 4.16 Africa Tenke Fungurume Agitation leach 50 3.37 0.399 85 2.99 0.289 Total 8,765 0.42 0.11 0.012 0.96 0.002 5,042 0.61 0.27 0.010 2.00 0.005 a. Undeveloped reserves requiring significant capital investment to bring into production. b. Grade not shown because of rounding. The reserve table above and the tables on pages 33 to 35 and 40 utilize the following abbreviations: g/t grams per metric ton Moly Molybdenum ROM Run of Mine 32 Table of Contents Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves Estimated at December 31, 2009 (continued) Average Ore Grade Recoveriesa Proven and Probable Processing Million Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % % % North America Morenci Mill 178 0.55 0.025 79.3 27.8 Crushed leach 365 0.62 77.9 ROM leach 2,623 0.21 43.6 Sierrita Mill 1,441 0.25 b 0.028 1.50 81.9 59.1 80.5 49.3 ROM leach 5 0.17 55.6 Bagdad Mill 759 0.36 b 0.021 1.79 84.5 59.1 72.1 49.3 ROM leach 205 0.16 28.9 Safford Crushed leach 243 0.44 69.3 Tyrone ROM leach 180 0.30 62.2 Henderson Mill 138 0.180 86.1 Chino Mill 60 0.65 0.03 0.013 0.48 77.1 77.9 35.3 78.5 ROM leach 82 0.39 61.2 Miami ROM leach 91 0.43 63.1 Climax Mill 190 0.158 88.8 Cobre ROM leach 73 0.39 65.4 6,633 South America Cerro Verde Mill 2,809 0.40 0.015 1.16 86.4 52.6 59.5 Crushed leach 162 0.53 76.1 ROM leach 82 0.24 43.3 El Abra Crushed leach 552 0.54 55.5 ROM leach 424 0.32 26.0 Candelaria Mill 411 0.54 0.12 2.05 91.0 79.0 76.3 Ojos del Salado Mill 9 1.12 0.26 3.12 89.8 59.6 66.1 4,449 Indonesia Grasberg open pit Mill 332 0.90 1.03 2.25 83.5 81.6 43.4 Deep Ore Zone Mill 254 0.60 0.67 2.80 84.2 75.9 57.8 Grasberg block cave Mill 1,006 1.03 0.81 3.29 85.5 66.9 60.6 Kucing Liar Mill 441 1.24 1.09 6.90 85.3 45.6 38.4 Deep Mill Level Zone Mill 501 0.89 0.74 4.44 85.9 76.7 62.7 Big Gossan Mill 56 2.25 1.08 14.25 92.2 67.7 64.3 2,590 Africa Tenke Fungurume Agitation leach 135 3.13 0.33 89.4 80.0 Total 13,807 a. Recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. Grade not shown because of rounding. 33 Table of Contents Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves Estimated at December 31, 2009 (continued) Recoverable Reserves Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt FCXs Processing billion million billion million billion Interest Method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. lbs. North America Morenci 85% Mill 1.7 0.03 Crushed leach 3.9 ROM leach 5.2 Sierrita 100% Mill 6.6 0.1 0.73 34.2 ROM leach Bagdad 100% Mill 5.1 0.1 0.26 21.6 ROM leach 0.2 Safford 100% Crushed leach 1.6 Tyrone 100% ROM leach 0.8 Henderson 100% Mill 0.47 Chino 100% Mill 0.7 0.01 0.7 ROM leach 0.4 Miami 100% ROM leach 0.5 Climax 100% Mill 0.58 Cobre 100% ROM leach 0.4 27.1 0.2 2.08 56.5 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 2.3 100% operations 29.4 0.2 2.08 56.5 Consolidated basisa 27.7 0.2 2.07 56.5 Net equity interestb 27.7 0.2 2.07 56.5 South America Cerro Verde 53.56% Mill 21.6 0.50 62.3 Crushed leach 1.4 ROM leach 0.2 El Abra 51% Crushed leach 3.6 ROM leach 0.8 Candelaria 80% Mill 4.5 1.3 20.7 Ojos del Salado 80% Mill 0.2 0.6 32.3 1.3 0.50 83.6 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 1.7 0.2 0.02 4.7 100% operations 34.0 1.5 0.52 88.3 Consolidated basisa 34.0 1.5 0.52 88.3 Net equity interestb 19.6 1.2 0.28 53.7 Indonesia Grasberg open pit (c) Mill 5.5 8.9 10.4 Deep Ore Zone (c) Mill 2.8 4.1 13.2 Grasberg block cave (c) Mill 19.5 17.5 64.5 Kucing Liar (c) Mill 10.3 7.1 37.6 Deep Mill Level Zone (c) Mill 8.4 9.2 44.8 Big Gossan (c) Mill 2.6 1.3 16.5 49.1 48.1 187.0 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 100% operations 49.1 48.1 187.0 Consolidated basisa 34.1 35.5 125.6 Net equity interestb 30.9 32.2 113.9 Africa Tenke Fungurume 57.75% Agitation leach 8.3 0.78 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 0.1 100% operations 8.4 0.78 Consolidated basisa 8.4 0.78 Net equity interestb 4.8 0.45 TOTAL 100% operations 120.9 49.8 2.60 331.8 0.78 TOTAL Consolidated basisa 104.2 37.2 2.59 270.4 0.78 TOTAL Net equity interestb 83.0 33.6 2.35 224.1 0.45 a. Consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. b. Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. c. Our joint venture agreement with Rio Tinto provides that PT Freeport Indonesia will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 34 Table of Contents In defining our open pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. The objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. We use a break even cutoff grade to define the in situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. The break even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. Our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. We value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. Copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi metal ores in terms of one metal. The calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. Our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. The table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of December 31, 2009: Copper Equivalent Cutoff Grades Molybdenum Cutoff Grade Copper Equivalent Cutoff Grade (Percent) (Percent) Crushed or ROM Mill Agitation Leach Leach Mill North America Morenci 0.32 0.32 0.03 N/A Sierrita 0.22 N/A 0.07 N/A Bagdad 0.23 N/A 0.08 N/A Safford N/A 0.12 N/A N/A Tyrone N/A N/A 0.05 N/A Henderson N/A N/A N/A 0.12 Chino 0.31 N/A 0.08 N/A Miami N/A N/A 0.04 N/A Climax N/A N/A N/A 0.06 Cobre N/A N/A 0.17 N/A South America Cerro Verde 0.20 0.24 0.18 N/A El Abra N/A 0.20 0.07 N/A Candelaria 0.22 N/A N/A N/A Ojos del Salado 0.59 N/A N/A N/A Indonesia Grasberg open pit 0.15 N/A N/A N/A Deep Ore Zone 0.65 N/A N/A N/A Grasberg block cave 0.53 N/A N/A N/A Kucing Liar 0.75 N/A N/A N/A Deep Mill Level Zone 0.69 N/A N/A N/A Big Gossan 1.41 N/A N/A N/A Africa Tenke Fungurume N/A 1.01 N/A N/A 35 Table of Contents Drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. Drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. Drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. The following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: Average Drill Hole Spacing Average Spacing in Meters Proven Probable Mining Unit Mill Leach Mill Leach North America Morenci Open Pit 86 86 122 122 Sierrita Open Pit 69 33 115 75 Bagdad Open Pit 86 86 122 122 Safford Open Pit N/A 61 N/A 122 Tyrone Open Pit N/A 86 N/A 86 Henderson Block Cave 38 N/A 85 N/A Chino Open Pit 43 86 86 122 Miami Open Pit N/A 61 N/A 91 Climax Open Pit 61 N/A 122 N/A Cobre Open Pit N/A 61 N/A 91 South America Cerro Verde Open Pit 50 50 100 100 El Abra Open Pit N/A 75 N/A 120 Candelaria Open Pit 35 N/A 70 N/A Ojos del Salado Sublevel Stoping 25 N/A 50 N/A Indonesia Grasberg Open Pit 36 N/A 92 N/A Deep Ore Zone Block Cave 20 N/A 51 N/A Grasberg Block Cave 47 N/A 80 N/A Kucing Liar Block Cave 39 N/A 97 N/A Deep Mill Level Zone Block Cave 21 N/A 89 N/A Big Gossan Open Stope 13 N/A 42 N/A Africa Tenke Fungurume Open Pit N/A 50 N/A 100 36 Table of Contents Production Sequencing The following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing the December 31, 2009, proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body. The chart also shows the term of PT Freeport Indonesias COW. Production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. The ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. In addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. Significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life of mine plans reflected below. 37 Table of Contents Mill and Leach Stockpiles Mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. For mill stockpiles, recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. For leach stockpiles, recovery is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. Because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be extracted into copper concentrate almost immediately. Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small scale laboratory tests, small to large scale column testing (which simulates the production scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. Processes and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. Following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of December 31, 2009: Recoverable Copper in Stockpiles Recoverable Millions of Average Recovery Copper Metric Tons Grade (%) Rate (%) (Billion Pounds) Mill stockpiles Cerro Verde 72 0.46 81.9 0.6 Candelaria 91 0.39 82.7 0.7 Subtotal 163 0.42 82.3 1.3 Leach stockpiles Morenci 4,581 0.25 1.8 0.4 Sierrita 648 0.15 13.1 0.3 Bagdad 391 0.28 3.0 0.1 Safford 69 0.43 27.9 0.2 Tyrone 967 0.28 2.2 0.1 Chino 1,623 0.25 12.2 1.1 Miami 433 0.38 1.5 0.1 Cerro Verde 354 0.54 2.7 0.1 El Abra 278 0.33 17.5 0.3 Tenke Fungurume 4 0.98 86.1 0.1 Subtotal 9,348 0.28 5.1 2.8 Total 100% basis 4.1 Consolidated basisa 4.0 Net equity interestb 3.4 a. Consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partners interest in the Morenci mine in North America. b. Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 38 Table of Contents MINERALIZED MATERIAL We hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. However, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. Mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. Such a deposit may not qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. Estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.00 per pound of copper, $750 per ounce of gold and $12.00 per pound of molybdenum. 39 Table of Contents Mineralized Material Estimated at December 31, 2009 Milling Material Leaching Material Total Mineralized Material Million Million Million FCXs metric Copper Gold Moly metric Copper metric Copper Gold Moly Interest tons % g/t % tons % tons % g/t % North America Morenci 85% 342 0.41 0.016 1,965 0.22 2,307 0.25 0.002 Sierritaa 100% 2,312 0.20 0.022 37 0.15 2,349 0.20 0.022 Bagdad 100% 589 0.35 0.019 118 0.13 707 0.31 0.016 Saffordb 100% 643 0.45 0.08 0.004 103 0.29 746 0.43 0.07 0.004 Tyrone 100% 135 0.31 135 0.31 Henderson 100% 65 0.131 65 0.131 Chino 100% 462 0.42 0.010 71 0.29 533 0.40 0.009 Miami 100% 41 0.45 41 0.45 Climax 100% 528 0.165 528 0.165 Cobre 100% 44 0.55 12 0.28 56 0.49 Ajoc 100% 639 0.36 0.07 0.007 639 0.36 0.07 0.007 Cochise/Bisbee 100% 301 0.44 301 0.44 Lone Star 100% 767 0.44 767 0.44 Sanchez 100% 190 0.28 190 0.28 Tohono 100% 247 0.68 280 0.67 527 0.68 Twin Buttesd 100% 619 0.46 0.026 67 0.22 686 0.43 0.024 South America Cerro Verde 53.56% 1,007 0.37 0.014 4 0.32 1,011 0.37 0.014 El Abra 51% 762 0.44 330 0.26 1,092 0.39 Candelariae 80% 81 0.49 0.11 81 0.49 0.11 Indonesia Grasberg districtf 54.38%k 2,622 0.59 0.53 2,622 0.59 0.53 Africa Tenke Fungurumeg 57.75% 62 3.38 21 2.84 83 3.24 Kisanfuh 95% 57 2.30 50 3.01 107 2.63 Total 100% basis 11,081 4,492 15,573 Consolidated basisi 9,981 4,198 14,179 Net equity interestj 8,948 4,023 12,971 a. Sierrita stated tonnage also includes 1.2 grams of silver per metric ton. b. Safford stated tonnage also includes 1.4 grams of silver per metric ton. c. Ajo stated tonnage also includes 0.9 grams of silver per metric ton. d. Twin Buttes stated tonnage also includes 5.2 grams of silver per metric ton. e. Candelaria stated tonnage also includes 1.7 grams of silver per metric ton. f. Grasberg district stated tonnage also includes 3.4 grams of silver per metric ton. g. Tenke Fungurume stated tonnage also includes 0.30 percent cobalt. h. Kisanfu stated tonnage also includes 1.08 percent cobalt. i. Consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our joint ventures partners interest in the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. j. Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. k. FCXs interest in the Grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. 40 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding anticipated production volumes, unit net cash costs, sales volumes, ore grades, milling rates, commodity prices, development and capital expenditures, mine production and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, environmental reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities and expenditures, litigation expense and results, dividend payments, reserve estimates, exploration efforts and results, operating cash flows, copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, deferred intercompany profit impacts on financial results, and anticipated political, economic and social conditions in our areas of operations. We undertake no obligation, to update or revise any forward looking statements. Readers are cautioned that forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those projected, anticipated or assumed in the forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements include the following. Financial risks Extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and or molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. Fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or molybdenum can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and equity securities. Our earnings and cash flows are affected significantly by the market prices of copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. The world market prices of these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. For information about movements in the market prices of these commodities, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Copper, Gold and Molybdenum Markets. An extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could (1) adversely affect our earnings and cash flows, (2) adversely affect our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and (3) depress the trading prices of our common and preferred stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. In addition, substantially all of our copper concentrate sales and some of our copper cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) prices. Accordingly, in times of falling copper prices, our revenues are negatively affected by lower prices received for contracts priced at current market rates and also from a decrease related to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of rising copper prices, the opposite occurs. There continues to be uncertainty in the global economy, which could negatively affect the market prices of commodities, including the metals that we produce. If market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. We may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses. World copper prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, LME daily closing spot prices ranged from $1.26 to $4.08 per pound for copper. The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. World copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world; available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories; sales by holders and producers of copper; demand for industrial products containing copper; 41 Table of Contents investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity; the availability and cost of substitute materials; and currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar. World gold prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, the daily closing prices on the London spot market ranged from $608 to $1,213 per ounce for gold. London gold prices closed at $1,079 per ounce on January 29, 2010. World gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China; global or regional political or economic crises; the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar and other currencies; expectations with respect to the rate of inflation; interest rates; purchases and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other holders; demand for jewelry containing gold; and investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity. Molybdenum prices also fluctuate widely. Molybdenum demand depends primarily on the global steel industry, which uses the metal as a hardening and corrosion inhibiting agent. Approximately 80 percent of molybdenum production is used in this application. The remainder is used in specialty chemical applications such as catalysts, water treatment agents and lubricants. Approximately 50 percent of global molybdenum production is a by product of copper mining, which is relatively insensitive to molybdenum prices. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, the Metals Week Dealer Oxide weekly average price for molybdenum ranged from $7.83 to $33.88 per pound. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price was $14.88 per pound on January 29, 2010. Molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply; rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel; the volume of molybdenum produced as a by product of copper production; inventory levels; currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar; and production costs of U.S. and foreign competitors. The agreements governing our indebtedness require us to meet certain financial tests and other covenants and as a result may limit our flexibility in the operation of our business and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. We incurred significant debt to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid to acquire Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge). As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was $6.3 billion. The agreements governing our indebtedness restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability to: 42 Table of Contents incur additional indebtedness; engage in transactions with affiliates; create liens on our assets; make payments in respect of equity issued by us or our subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on our common stock; make investments in, or loans, to entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; sell assets; merge with or into other companies; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into unrelated businesses; enter into agreements or arrangements that restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other distributions; prepay indebtedness; and enter into hedging transactions other than in the ordinary course of business. In April 2008, Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings raised our corporate credit rating and the ratings on our unsecured debt to BBB (investment grade). As a result of the upgrade of our unsecured debt to investment grade by S&P, the restrictions contained in our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes on incurring debt, making restricted payments and selling assets were suspended. In addition, our senior revolving credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests at any time that borrowings are outstanding under these facilities, including a leverage ratio test (Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as those terms are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 5.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter) and a secured leverage ratio test (Total Secured Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as those terms are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 3.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter). During periods in which copper, gold or molybdenum prices or production volumes, or other conditions reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors, we may not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants. Our senior revolving credit facilities and our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes contain covenants that limit our ability to make certain payments. These restrictions vary among the instruments, but generally limit our ability to pay certain dividends on common and preferred stock, repurchase or redeem common and preferred equity, prepay subordinated debt and make certain investments. To the extent the rating is downgraded below investment grade, these covenants in our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes would again become effective. At December 31, 2009, the most restrictive of these covenants related to restricted payments allowed for payments up to approximately $7.6 billion. Our obligations under our senior credit facilities are (1) guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (2) secured by a pledge of (a) 100 percent of the equity in substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (b) 66.5 percent of the equity in substantially all of our first tier foreign subsidiaries. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or any agreement governing our other indebtedness, after giving effect to any applicable grace period, may result in an event of default. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which may trigger cross acceleration or cross default provisions in other debt agreements. We would not be able to fully repay when due borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. 43 Table of Contents If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit agreements at maturity or in the event of a default, the lenders under our senior credit facilities could terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding (together with accrued interest and other fees) immediately due and payable and institute foreclosure proceedings against the collateral. Any such actions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under U.S. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions taken under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent state regulations. The failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. We are required by U.S. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. These laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance. In July 2009, EPA published a Priority Notice of Action identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements. It is uncertain how the new requirements will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations. As of December 31, 2009, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs totaled approximately $710 million, of which approximately $414 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. Our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations in New Mexico and Arizona depends on our ability to meet financial tests. Certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state approved ratings service. We are currently rated investment grade by Standard & Poors and Fitch, but are not rated investment grade by Moodys. If we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these alternate tests, in which case, the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance to fully satisfy our financial assurance obligations, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. Depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. Issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. Failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. As of December 31, 2009, we have limited financial assurance obligations associated with CERCLA related actions, although EPA and certain states are currently considering increasing the use of financial assurance requirements. For additional information, see the risk factor Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations below. We need significant amounts of cash to service our debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding principal amount of our debt was $6.3 billion. We must generate sufficient amounts of cash to service and repay our debt. Our ability to generate cash will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facilities or from the capital markets in amounts sufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund other liquidity needs. In addition, disruptions in the credit and financial markets, such as those beginning in late 2008, can constrain our access to capital and increase its cost. The inability to service, repay or refinance our indebtedness could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. If future financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest needed capital for our development and exploration programs, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 44 Table of Contents Movements in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could negatively affect our operating results. Substantially all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs, and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevos sol and euro. As a result, our results are adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. At December 31, 2009, approximately 19 percent of our outstanding debt was subject to variable interest rates. Increases in these rates will increase our interest costs and reduce our profits and operating cash flows. From time to time, we may implement currency or interest rate hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange or interest rates. However, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange or interest payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. Operational risks The volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. Our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with established mining industry practices and standards, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be recovered economically and legally based on currently available data. Estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are subject to considerable uncertainty. Ore bodies may not conform to standard geological expectations, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. Because ore bodies do not contain uniform grades and types of minerals, our metal recovery rates will vary from time to time. Additionally, because the determination of reserves is based partially on estimates of future selling prices, a sustained decrease in such prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. These factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. There are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from stockpiles. The quantity of copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. The volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and recovered copper from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. We must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. Our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long term viability. Produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. Open pit operations at Grasberg are expected to continue through mid 2016, at which time underground mining operations are scheduled to begin at our Grasberg Block Cave mine, which is under development. Production at the DOZ mine is expected to continue through 2020 and we plan to ramp up production at our Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) block cave mine, which is currently under development, beginning in 2015. In addition, oxide copper production at El Abra is expected to decline over the next several years and production from the sulfide ore is expected to begin in 2012. Exploration is highly speculative in nature. Our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. 45 Table of Contents Development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects, including our significant future development of underground mines at the Grasberg minerals district and our development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. Moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. Thus it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. New development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. These development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. It is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in invested capital. The development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following: Unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; Challenges related to hiring and training the personnel required for the ramp up in underground mining activities; Larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and Unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods. Some of these risks could result in a delay to production start up and a loss or reduction in minable tons. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. Mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. These operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following: earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; problems associated with the construction and management of large impoundments containing tailings or other viscous or semi solid materials, some of which also contain mineral and chemical contaminants, such as structural failures or leakages; 46 Table of Contents interruption of energy supply; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; metallurgical and other processing problems; unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights and shortages of water to which we have rights; adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government permits; delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; labor disputes; and the inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. The failure to adequately manage some of these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both on and outside our operating sites, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in production. Continuation of our mining production is dependent on the availability of a sufficient water supply to support our mining operations. Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Our operations in North and South America are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and defeat claims adverse to our current water uses in legal proceedings. At our U.S. operations, under state law, our water rights give us only the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. In Arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which for over 30 years the State of Arizona has been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims in two of the states largest river systems that affect four of our operating mines (Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford). These legal proceedings may also affect our Arizona mine at Bagdad. Groundwater is not subject to adjudication in Arizona, but is subject to the doctrine of reasonable use, which requires balancing the utility of the use against the gravity of the harm to others who have rights in the same aquifer; however, wells may be subject to adjudication to the extent they are found to produce or affect surface water. In Colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the Climax mine. Our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated in New Mexico. In South America, water for our mining operations at Candelaria and Ojos del Salado is drawn from the Copiap River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, ongoing studies are assessing the available supply for our mining operations at these sites. Due to anticipated shortages in this water resource, plans are in place to develop new supplementary water supplies. Construction is under way to convey treated effluent from a nearby sewage treatment plant to the mine and permitting has begun to construct both a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater and a pipeline to convey the desalinated water to the Candelaria mine. Water for our El Abra mining operations in Chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn pursuant to regulatory approval. At El Abra, hydrogeologic studies are ongoing to obtain regulatory approval for the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn to process sulfide ore. We expect that the amount of water needed to develop the sulfide ore project will represent a significant increase over current volumes used in processing the oxide ore. El Abra is working closely with regulatory authorities to meet these requirements. Failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approval or receipt of approval in a less than desired amount could adversely affect our development of the sulfide ore project as planned. 47 Table of Contents Water for our Cerro Verde mining operations in Peru comes from a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Our Cerro Verde mining operations recently constructed several new water reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed to obtain more water rights and to expand storage capacity. Due to occasional drought and possible effects of climate change reducing precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our operations as currently planned. Although each operation currently has sufficient water rights and claims to cover its operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. The loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. An interruption of energy supply could adversely affect our mining operations. Our mining operations and development projects require significant amounts of energy. Our principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. Our South America mining operations receive electrical power under long term contracts with local energy companies. Our Africa mining operation has entered into long term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with the state owned electric utility company serving the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). A disruption in the transmission of energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure, or the termination of any of our energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect our operations. Increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. Energy represents a significant portion of our production costs. An inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. Our production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, explosives and diluents. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. Increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. Our Grasberg mining operations are located in steep mountainous terrain in a very remote area in Indonesia. Because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. On October 9, 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the Grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. On December 12, 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. The events caused us to alter our short term mine sequencing plans, which adversely affected our 2003 and 2004 production. We resumed normal production activities in the second quarter of 2004. On March 23, 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting PT Freeport Indonesias mining facilities. Three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. The material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. As a result of investigations by PT Freeport Indonesia and the Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. The existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. 48 Table of Contents On September 10, 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our Grasberg open pit. There were no injuries or property damage. The event caused a delay in our access to the high grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods. No assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. Our Africa mining operation, Tenke Fungurume, involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the DRC. Our Africa mining operation is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to additional challenges, including: severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria and cholera. For example, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from our Africa mining operation approximately 1,900 miles to ports in South Africa. Our Africa mining operation and future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. Environmental risks Our domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs. Our ongoing mining operations and exploration activities, both in the U.S. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs and we expect these costs to continue to increase in the future because of increased regulatory enforcement, increased demand for remediation services and shortages of equipment, supplies, labor and other factors. The Federal Clean Air Act has had a significant impact, particularly on our domestic smelter and power plants. Any change in waste management regulation of the mining industry under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act could have a significant impact, both on operational compliance and closure costs. In addition, environmental laws and regulations may change in ways that could substantially increase compliance costs or adversely affect our operations or expansion opportunities. In addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. Freeport McMoRan Corporation (FMC, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the U.S. for more than a century. Activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before American industrial companies understood the long term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. With the passage of CERCLA in 1980, companies like Phelps Dodge became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. That liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other 49 Table of Contents owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. As a result, because of our acquisition of Phelps Dodge in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the U.S., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. We are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. As of December 31, 2009, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the U.S. in approximately 25 states. We incurred aggregate environmental capital expenditure and other environmental costs, (including our joint venture partners shares), to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $289 million in 2009, $377 million in 2008 and $280 million in 2007. For 2010, we expect to incur approximately $426 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2010 operating budget. At December 31, 2009, $1.5 billion of environmental obligations were recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. Our environmental obligation estimates are based upon (1) our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago, (2) our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake the estimated costs of those activities, which are subject to varying interpretations, and (3) our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. Significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. The actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. Refer to Note 14 for more information on our environmental obligations. An adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us. As described in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, we are a defendant in numerous and in some cases significant litigation involving environmental cleanup costs, alleged environmental toxic torts and interpretations of environmental regulations. An adverse ruling in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. Our domestic operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined land reclamation obligations. These requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. In general, our domestic mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. In addition, our international mines are subject to various mine closure and mined land reclamation laws, and there have recently been significant changes in closure and reclamation programs in both Peru and Chile that impose more stringent obligations on us for closure and reclamation. Updated closure plans for our three Chilean operations were submitted to the government in February 2009 and the Peruvian government approved Cerro Verdes closure plan in October 2009. Our asset retirement obligations (AROs), determined as required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. totaled $731 million (including approximately $46 million for the current portion) at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, we had accrued reclamation and closure costs of $351 million for our New Mexico operations, $187 million for our Arizona operations and $102 million for PT Freeport Indonesia. ARO cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, mine plans, cost of inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. 50 Table of Contents Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. Many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and therefore potentially to climate change. In 2009, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were 8.9 million metric tons, nearly equally divided between direct and indirect emissions. Most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. Indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. Approximately 19 percent of our direct emissions are in North America and 68 percent in Indonesia, and approximately 60 percent of our indirect emissions are in North America and 38 percent in South America. A number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes regarding greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in the U.S., the EPA issued final regulations in September 2009 requiring mandatory monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in specified circumstances, commencing in 2010. Our Morenci mine, Miami smelter and El Paso refinery will likely be required to report their emissions under this program. In December 2009, the EPA issued findings under the Clean Air Act that the current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and welfare. While the findings themselves do not impose any requirements, they form the basis for future regulation of our greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (ACES), also known as the Waxman Markey Bill, which proposes to impose a cap and trade program aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Several states have also initiated action on their own or as part of regional organizations, such as the Western Climate Initiative, to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. The U.S. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our U.S. operations. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the Protocol. Although the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012, has not been ratified by the U.S., the U.S. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. We actively pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2009, we formed a multi departmental task force to focus our efforts on these topics. In addition, since 2006, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. From a medium and long term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase, if they incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Our operating, inactive and historical U.S. mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations. A number of federal and state agencies are considering new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. For example, the EPA could promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (TENORM) and their impacts at mining operations. In addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. Radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations. Consequently, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation. The impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain. 51 Table of Contents Our Indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. Mining operations on the scale of our operations in Papua involve significant environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper , gold and silver bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the Government of Indonesia, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. Lateral levees have been engineered and constructed to limit and help contain the footprint of tailings impact in the lowlands. Another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process in order to reach the ore. In the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can have a negative impact on the environment. Certain Indonesian governmental officials have from time to time raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. Because our mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. In connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the Indonesian government, we committed to perform a one time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. We completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the Indonesian government in December 2002. We developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the Indonesian government, academia and non governmental organizations. The risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. Since 2005, PT Freeport Indonesia has participated in the Government of Indonesias PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating) program. In October 2009, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment announced the latest results of its PROPER environmental management audit, and gave PT Freeport Indonesia a Blue rating acknowledging PT Freeport Indonesias environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in Indonesia and also making several recommendations for improvement. International risks Our International operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. We are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the U.S. We conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Peru, Chile and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries. Such risks include (1) renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, (2) expropriation or nationalization of property, (3) changes in a foreign countrys laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, (4) political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, (5) foreign exchange controls, and (6) the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. Our insurance does not cover most losses caused by these risks. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the U.S. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. 52 Table of Contents In December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia was notified by the Large Taxpayers Office of the Government of Indonesia that PT Freeport Indonesia is obligated to pay value added taxes on certain goods imported after the year 2000. The amount of taxes and penalties would be significant. PT Freeport Indonesia believes that pursuant to the terms of its Contract of Work, it is only required to pay value added taxes on these types of goods imported after December 30, 2009. PT Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the applicable government authorities to resolve this matter. In December 2008, our Cerro Verde mining operation in Peru was notified by Peruvian revenue authorities of their intent to assess mining royalties related to minerals processed by the Cerro Verde concentrator. In August 2009, Cerro Verde received a formal assessment in the amount of approximately $50 million in connection with its alleged obligations for mining royalties and fines for the period from October 2006 to December 2007. Cerro Verde is challenging this assessment as it believes that royalty obligations with respect to all minerals extracted are governed by its existing stability agreement, regardless of the processing method applied after extraction, and believes that it owes no royalties with respect to minerals processed through its concentrator. We are working cooperatively with the Peruvian authorities to resolve this matter. Because our Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties. Indonesia has faced political, economic and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. In particular, several separatist groups are opposing Indonesian rule over the province of Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. In response, Indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective January 1, 2001. The manner in which the new laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social, economic and political instability in Papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. Maintaining a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among Indonesias most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a Contract of Work with the Indonesian government. Partially because of their significance to Indonesias economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the Indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. Since July 2009, there has been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex (including an incident in January 2010). In connection with these incidents, there have been three fatalities (including one PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and has expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and of our operations. The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. In response to these events, PT Freeport Indonesia is currently reviewing security plans with the Indonesian authorities. Grasberg operated at reduced mining and milling rates during a four day period from April 18, 2007 to April 21, 2007, as a result of peaceful protests by certain workers regarding benefits. The protests ended on April 21 with an agreement on a framework for minimum wages for its workers and Grasberg returned to normal operations. The impacts to production were not significant. Illegal miners have continued to operate along the river designated to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in PT Freeport Indonesias government approved tailings management area. The illegal miners who have trespassed from time to time in the area of our facilities have clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. In 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the Grasberg mine and mill in protest, and PT Freeport Indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. 53 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt our Indonesian operations, or whether similar incidents may occur in other countries that could affect our other operations. If additional protests or other disruptive incidents occur at any of our facilities, they could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. We do not expect to mine all of our Indonesian ore reserves before the initial term of our Contract of Work in Indonesia expires. All of our Indonesian proven and probable ore reserves, including the Grasberg deposit, are located in Block A. The initial term of our Contract of Work covering these ore reserves expires at the end of 2021. We can extend this term for two successive 10 year periods, subject to the approval of the Indonesian government, which under our Contract of Work cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Our ore reserves reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 (i.e., through the expiration of the two 10 year extensions) and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10 year extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the current term of our Contract of Work, and there can be no assurance that the Indonesian government will approve the extensions. Prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine approximately 33 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at December 31, 2009, representing approximately 39 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias share of recoverable copper reserves and approximately 52 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. In 2008, Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia. In 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2008 mining law and certain provisions address existing contracts of work. The regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to any extension periods of contracts of work even though our Contract of Work provides for two ten year extension periods under the existing terms of the Contract of Work. Our Contracts of Work in Indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work and other Contracts of Work in which we have an interest were entered into under Indonesias 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. Our Contracts of Work can be terminated by the Government of Indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. Certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our Contract of Work. Although our Contract of Work grants to PT Freeport Indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the Contract of Work, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on PT Freeport Indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements. At times, certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the Government of Indonesia prior to May 1998 (i.e., during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work, which was signed in December 1991. We cannot assure you that the validity of, or our compliance with, the Contracts of Work will not be challenged for political or other reasons. PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work and our other Contracts of Work require that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. Consequently, if a dispute arises under the Contracts of Work, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory. Indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with Indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the Contracts of Work. In 2006, the Government of Indonesia created a joint team for Periodic Evaluation on Implementation of the PT FI Contract of Work (COW) to conduct an evaluation every five years. The team consists of five working groups, whose members are from relevant ministries or agencies, covering production, state revenues, community development, environmental 54 Table of Contents issues and security issues. We have conducted numerous meetings with these groups. The joint team has indicated that it will issue a report. While we believe that we comply with PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work in all material respects, we cannot assure you that the report will support that conclusion. Separately, the Indonesian House of Representatives created a working committee on PT Freeport Indonesia. Members of this group have also visited our operations and held a number of hearings in Jakarta. We will continue to work with these groups to respond to their questions about our operations and our compliance with PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work. Any suspension of required activities under our Contracts of Work requires the consent of the Indonesian government. Our Contracts of Work permit us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the Indonesian government. These requests are subject to the approval of the Indonesian government and are renewable annually. If we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the Contract of Work or potentially be declared in default. Moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the Indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the Contract of Work. We suspended our field exploration activities outside of Block A in recent years because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an Indonesian Forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open pit mining in forest preservation areas. In 2001, we requested and received from the Government of Indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the Contracts of Work in all areas outside of Block A. Recent Indonesian legislation permits open pit mining in PT Freeport Indonesias Block B area, subject to certain requirements. Following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective Contract of Work areas outside of Block A. Our Tenke Fungurume mining operation is located in the Katanga province of the DRC, and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the DRC. During 2009, we completed construction activities for the initial Tenke Fungurume development project, which is located in the DRC. Since 1960, the DRC has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy towards foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. Our ability to continue mining operations and future development is currently subject to an ongoing review of our mining convention which was part of a review of all mining contracts by the Ministry of Mines (Ministry) in the DRC, the outcome of which cannot be predicted. We received notification on February 20, 2008, that the Ministry wishes to renegotiate several material provisions of our mining concessions. We believe that the terms of the concessions are fair and that they were negotiated transparently and are legally binding. However, we cannot predict whether the Government of the DRC will respect our contract rights. In July 2009, Tenke Fungurume was advised that the Minister of Justice in the DRC authorized an inquiry regarding the alleged misappropriation of public funds in connection with the securing of labor and immigration authorizations and the payment of associated fees for the Tenke Fungurume project. Several government officials and three Tenke Fungurume employees were arrested. In October 2009, the three Tenke Fungurume employees were tried and acquitted. One government official, the head of immigration in the Katanga province, was sentenced to five years imprisonment on charges of embezzlement. The office of the Attorney General of the DRC has filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, the implications of which are not yet clear. In July 2009, Tenke Fungurume entered into a settlement agreement with DRC tax authorities in connection with an administrative audit regarding the payment of fees for work permits and visas for its foreign workers and subcontractors, including short term workers. Pursuant to the agreement, which covers the period from January 2007 to the date of the settlement, Tenke Fungurume paid approximately $16 million in fees and penalties. The procedures associated with obtaining labor and immigration authorizations for short term workers on a timely basis are not clearly established in the DRC, and Tenke Fungurume continues to work proactively and cooperatively with the tax authorities to establish approved procedures for doing so consistent with its mining convention and local law. 55 Table of Contents Other political, economic and social risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include: political risks associated with the relatively recent establishment of the present government; cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government; legal and regulatory uncertainties, governmental corruption and bribery; royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; security risks due to the remote location in the southern DRC and violence in the northeastern provinces of the DRC; risk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. Consequently, our Tenke Fungurume mining operations and future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. On July 17, 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the JW Marriott and Ritz Carlton hotels in Jakarta, Indonesia, that are reported to have killed nine people and injured 53 others. Two of our Indonesian based executives were injured in the incident. On July 8, 2009, a small group of individuals created a disturbance on the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex and vandalized vehicles and small buildings. There were no injuries. For more information about a series of shooting incidents near our Grasberg mining complex, see the risk factor Because our Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties above. On August 31, 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near Tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of PT Freeport Indonesias personnel reside. The assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in Tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to PT Freeport Indonesia. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigated the incident, which resulted in the U.S. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the Free Papua Movement/National Freedom Force. In January 2006, Indonesian police, accompanied by FBI agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other Papuans. In November 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the August 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack. On October 12, 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the Indonesian province of Bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. Indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. On August 5, 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia. On September 9, 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. On October 1, 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in Bali. The same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. In November 2005, Indonesian police raided a house in East Java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. Our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but PT Freeport Indonesias corporate office in Jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the Australian embassy. In addition to the Bali, JW Marriott Hotel and Australian embassy bombings, there have been anti American demonstrations in certain sections of Indonesia reportedly led by radical Islamic activists. 56 Table of Contents No assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. If there were to be additional violence, it could materially and adversely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict at this time. Other risks If market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long lived assets may be further impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the then current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long lived assets and goodwill for impairment. As a result, we recorded impairment charges totaling $16.9 billion ($12.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders). Additionally, the declines in copper and molybdenum prices in late 2008 resulted in lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory charges totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders) in 2008. Additional LCM charges associated with molybdenum inventories totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders) were recorded in first quarter 2009. Declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, may cause us to record additional LCM inventory adjustments and may also require us to further write down the carrying value of long lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. Unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are a party to the litigation described in our SEC filings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at Superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. If any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation, is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our future projects. A loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. In addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the U.S. In addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries creditors, including any trade creditors and preferred stockholders. 57 Table of Contents Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. These provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. These provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by Phelps Dodge and its affiliates. We do not believe that our potential liability in any such proceeding should have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We maintain liability insurance to cover some, but not all, potential liabilities normally incident to the ordinary course of our business as well as other insurance coverage customary in our business, with coverage limits that we deem prudent. Environmental Proceedings Pinal Creek. We are a party to litigation entitled Pinal Creek Group, et al. v. Newmont Mining Corporation, et al., United States District Court, District of Arizona, Case No. CIV 91 1764 PHX DAE (LOA), filed on May 1, 1991. The Pinal Creek site located near Miami, Arizona, was listed under the Arizona Department of Environmental Qualitys (ADEQ) Water Quality Assurance Revolving Fund program in 1989 for contamination in the shallow alluvial aquifers within the Pinal Creek drainage near Miami, Arizona. Since that time, environmental remediation has been performed by members of the Pinal Creek Group (PCG), consisting of Phelps Dodge Miami, Inc. (Miami) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Freeport McMoRan Corporation, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation) and two other companies. In 1998, the District Court approved a Consent Decree between the PCG members and the state of Arizona resolving all matters related to an enforcement action contemplated by the state of Arizona against the PCG members with respect to groundwater contamination. The Consent Decree committed the PCG members to complete the remediation work outlined in the Consent Decree, and that work continues at this time and is expected to continue for many years in the future. 58 Table of Contents Remediation costs have been paid pursuant to an interim cost sharing allocation among the members of the PCG, with Miamis interim allocation being approximately two thirds. However, there have been significant disagreements among the members of the PCG regarding the cost allocation, with other members alleging in the federal court proceeding that Miami should be responsible for substantially all of the costs. In February 2010, we settled those disagreements and the associated litigation. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, Miami paid $40 million to other members of the PCG to settle the allocation of previously incurred costs, and agreed to take full responsibility for future groundwater remediation at the Pinal Creek site, with limited exceptions. The settlement did not result in an adjustment of the related environmental reserve reflected in our financial statements. Blackwell, Oklahoma Litigation. On April 14, 2008, a purported class action was filed in the District Court of Kay County, Oklahoma against us and several of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Blackwell Zinc Company (BZC) (Coffey, et al., v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc., et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2008 68). This suit alleges that the operations of BZCs zinc smelter in Blackwell, Oklahoma, from 1918 to 1974 resulted in contamination of the soils and groundwater in Blackwell and the surrounding area. Unspecified compensatory and punitive damages are sought on behalf of the putative class members, consisting of current and former residents and property owners, for alleged diminution in property values. There is also a request for an order compelling remediation of allegedly contaminated properties and the establishment of a monetary fund to monitor the present and future health of the putative class members. On December 7, 2009, 18 individuals filed a related suit (Brown et al. v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2009 213), alleging personal injuries resulting from exposure to lead and seeking compensatory and punitive damages. We intend to defend both of these matters vigorously. For more information about our remediation activities in Blackwell, Oklahoma, refer to Note 14. On October 15, 2009, the City of Blackwell and the Blackwell Municipal Authority filed an action against us and several of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including BZC (City of Blackwell et al. v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc. et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2009 15B). The suit alleged that the operations of BZCs zinc smelter resulted in contamination of soils and groundwater in the City of Blackwell. The plaintiffs alleged nuisance, trespass, negligence, and unjust enrichment and claimed unspecified actual, equitable (for unjust enrichment) and punitive damages. In February 2010, we reached a partial settlement with the City of Blackwell and the Blackwell Municipal Authority by paying $54 million to settle all of the claims except for future damages relating to the potential failure of our groundwater remediation system (which is under construction) to prevent contamination from entering the City of Blackwells wastewater treatment system. Arizona Department of Environmental Quality Morenci. In October 2008, Freeport McMoRan Morenci Inc. (Morenci) notified state and federal authorities that it accidentally released electrolyte solution from its solution extraction and electrowinning (SX/EW) operation into Lower Chase Creek, an ephemeral stream that is normally dry. Morenci conducted a thorough cleanup of the spill and later provided authorities with information on corrective actions implemented in response to the spill. On January 16, 2009, Morenci received Notices of Violation (NOVs) from the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality alleging that the spill resulted in violations of the Arizona Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and Aquifer Protection Programs. Morenci also received a letter dated January 28, 2010, from the Arizona Attorney Generals office advising Morenci that the State of Arizona intends to file a civil enforcement action. Morenci intends to meet with the Arizona Attorney Generals office to discuss a potential settlement and expects to reach an agreement that includes payment of an appropriate civil penalty, which may exceed $100,000, and possible additional corrective actions to those previously implemented. Asbestos Claims Since approximately 1990, Phelps Dodge and various subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a large number of lawsuits claiming personal injury from exposure to asbestos contained in electrical wire products produced or marketed by Phelps Dodge affiliates many years ago, or from asbestos contained in buildings and facilities located at properties owned or operated by Phelps Dodge affiliates. Water Rights Water law in the western U.S. is generally based on the doctrine of prior appropriation (first in time, first in right) and permits the water right holder the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use, at a designated location. Our operations in the western U.S. require water for mining, ore processing and related 59 Table of Contents support facilities. Continuous operation of these mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims. The loss of water rights, in whole or in part, could have a significant adverse affect on our mining operations. Two water rights adjudications have been initiated in the State of Arizona in order to quantify and prioritize all surface water claims in two of the States river systems that include four of our operating mines (Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford). These legal proceedings may also affect our Bagdad, Arizona mine. These adjudications have been under way for many years, and we cannot predict when they will be concluded. In Re the General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Little Colorado Water System and Sources, Apache County, Superior Court, No. 6417, filed on or about February 17, 1978. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the State of Arizona; the Salt River Project; the Arizona Public Service Company; the Navajo Nation, the Hopi Indian Tribe; the San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe; and the United States on its own behalf, on behalf of those Indian tribes, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe. In Re The General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Gila River System and Sources, Maricopa County, Superior Court, Cause Nos. W 1 (Salt), W 2 (Verde), W 3 (Upper Gila), and W 4 (San Pedro), filed on February 17, 1978. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the State of Arizona; the Gila Valley Irrigation District; the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District; the Salt River Project; the San Carlos Apache Tribe; the Gila River Indian Community; and the United States on behalf of those Tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe, the Fort McDowell Mohave Apache Indian Community, the Salt River Pima Maricopa Indian Community, and the Payson Community of Yavapai Apache Indians. In 1998, we entered into a water rights settlement agreement with the Gila River Indian Community (GRIC), which was later included in a comprehensive water rights settlement under the Arizona Water Settlements Act of 2004. The GRIC settlement is subject to contingencies, and the comprehensive settlement has been challenged by other parties. If we are unable to resolve the contingencies in the GRIC settlement and defeat the third party challenges, our water rights in the Gila River watershed could be diminished, and our operations at Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford could be adversely affected. Prior to January 1, 1983, various Indian tribes filed suits in the U.S. District Court in Arizona claiming superior rights to water being used by many other water users, including us, and claiming damages for prior use in derogation of their allegedly superior rights. These federal proceedings have been stayed pending the Arizona Superior Court adjudications. United States v. Gila Valley Irrigation District, United States District Court, District of Arizona, was initiated in 1925 by the United States to settle conflicting claims to water rights in portions of the Gila River watershed. A decree settling the claims of various parties was entered in 1935, after Morenci had been dismissed from the case without prejudice. In 1988, the Gila River Indian Community intervened, challenging uses of water in the Gila River watershed, which may impact water that we have the right to divert annually from Eagle Creek, Chase Creek or the San Francisco River for operation of our Morenci mine, pursuant to decreed rights and an agreement between us and the Gila Valley Irrigation District. Our Morenci operations also purchased farm lands with water rights in 1997, 1998 and 2008 that could be affected by the outcome of this proceeding. Impairment of our water claims in the Gila River watershed could adversely affect the operations of our Morenci and Safford mines. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Not applicable. 60 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant. Certain information as of February 12, 2010, about our executive officers is set forth in the following table and accompanying text: Name Age Position or Office James R. Moffett 71 Chairman of the Board Richard C. Adkerson 63 Director, President and Chief Executive Officer Michael J. Arnold 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Kathleen L. Quirk 46 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer James R. Moffett has served as Chairman of the Board since May 1992. Mr. Moffett previously served as the Chief Executive Officer from July 1995 until December 2003. He is also Co Chairman of the Board of McMoRan Exploration Co. (McMoRan). Richard C. Adkerson has served as President since January 2008 and also from April 1997 to March 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2003 and a director since October 2006. Mr. Adkerson previously served as Chief Financial Officer from October 2000 to December 2003. Mr. Adkerson is also Co Chairman of the Board of McMoRan. Michael J. Arnold has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007 and Chief Administrative Officer since December 2003. Kathleen L. Quirk has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007, Chief Financial Officer since December 2003 and Treasurer since February 2000. Ms. Quirk previously served as Senior Vice President from December 2003 to March 2007. Ms. Quirk has also served as the Senior Vice President of McMoRan since April 2002 and as Treasurer since January 2000. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Common Stock Our common shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol FCX. The FCX share price is reported daily in the financial press under FMCG in most listings of NYSE securities. NYSE composite tape common share price ranges during 2009 and 2008 follow: 2009 2008 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 43.45 $ 21.16 $ 107.37 $ 68.96 Second Quarter 61.55 36.60 127.24 93.00 Third Quarter 73.43 43.19 117.11 51.21 Fourth Quarter 87.35 63.00 56.75 15.70 As of February 12, 2010, there were approximately 18,000 holders of record of our common stock. 61 Table of Contents Common Stock Dividends In February 2003, the Board of Directors authorized an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $0.36 per share payable quarterly, and authorized increases in the annual cash dividend in October 2003 to $0.80 per share, in October 2004 to $1.00 per share and in November 2005 to $1.25 per share. In December 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase in our annual common stock dividend to $1.75 per share and in July 2008 to $2.00 per share. Additionally, since December 2004, we have paid eight supplemental dividends. Because of the deterioration in copper and molybdenum prices and in general economic conditions, in December 2008 the Board of Directors suspended the cash dividend on our common stock; accordingly, no common stock dividends were paid in 2009. In October 2009, the Board of Directors authorized an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $0.60 per share, payable quarterly beginning February 1, 2010. Below is a summary of common stock cash dividends declared and paid during 2008: 2008 Per Share Amount Record Date Payment Date First Quarter $ 0.4375 Jan. 15, 2008 Feb. 1, 2008 Second Quarter 0.4375 Apr. 15, 2008 May 1, 2008 Third Quarter 0.4375 July 15, 2008 Aug. 1, 2008 Fourth Quarter 0.5000 Oct. 15, 2008 Nov. 1, 2008 The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. In addition, payment of dividends on our common stock and purchases of common stock are subject to limitations under our senior notes and, in certain circumstances, our senior credit facilities. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table sets forth information with respect to shares of common stock of FCX purchased by us during the three months ended December 31, 2009: (d) Maximum Number (c) Total Number of (or Approximate (a) Total Shares (or Units) Dollar Value) of Shares Number of (b) Average Purchased as Part of (or Units) That May Shares (or Units) Price Paid Per Publicly Announced Yet Be Purchased Under Period Purchaseda Share (or Unit) Plans or Programsb the Plans or Programsb October 1 31, 2009 279 $ 64.83 23,685,500 November 1 30, 2009 103 $ 84.24 23,685,500 December 1 31, 2009 $ 23,685,500 Total 382 $ 70.06 23,685,500 a. Consists of shares repurchased to satisfy tax obligations on restricted stock awards and stock options under FCXs applicable stock incentive plans. b. On July 21, 2008, FCXs Board of Directors approved an increase in FCXs open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. The program does not have an expiration date. 62 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data. FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007a 2006 2005 FCX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Revenues $ 15,040 $ 17,796 $ 16,939 b $ 5,791 $ 4,179 Operating income (loss) 6,503 c,d (12,710 )c,d,e 6,555 b,e 2,869 2,177 Income (loss) from continuing operations 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,733 1,625 1,122 Net income (loss) 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,779 1,625 1,122 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 785 617 802 168 127 Net income (loss) attributable to FCX common stockholders 2,527 c,d,f (11,341 )c,d,e,f 2,769 b,e,f 1,396 f,g 935 f Basic net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations $ 6.10 $ (29.72 ) $ 8.02 $ 7.32 $ 5.18 Discontinued operations 0.10 Basic net income (loss) $ 6.10 $ (29.72 ) $ 8.12 $ 7.32 $ 5.18 Basic weighted average common shares outstanding 414 382 341 191 180 Diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations $ 5.86 $ (29.72 ) $ 7.41 $ 6.63 $ 4.67 Discontinued operations 0.09 Diluted net income (loss) $ 5.86 c,d,f $ (29.72 )c,d,e,f $ 7.50 b,e,f $ 6.63 f,g $ 4.67 f Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 469 382 397 221 220 Dividends declared per share of common stock $ 0.15 $ 1.375 $ 1.375 $ 5.0625 $ 2.50 At December 31: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,656 $ 872 $ 1,626 $ 907 $ 764 Property, plant, equipment and development costs, net 16,195 16,002 25,715 3,099 3,089 Goodwill 6,105 Total assets 25,996 23,353 40,661 5,390 g 5,550 Total debt, including current portion and short term borrowings 6,346 7,351 7,211 680 1,256 Total FCX stockholders equity 9,119 5,773 18,234 2,445 g 1,843 The selected consolidated financial data shown above is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. You should read this data in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our full consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this annual report. a. Includes the results of Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge) beginning March 20, 2007. b. Includes charges totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.27 per share) for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge. c. Includes charges totaling $77 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share) in 2009 and $17.0 billion ($12.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $33.21 per share) in 2008 associated with impairment, restructuring and other charges. d. Includes charges for lower of cost or market inventory adjustments totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.03 per share) in 2009 and $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.26 per share) in 2008. e. Includes purchase accounting impacts related to the acquisition of Phelps Dodge totaling $1.1 billion, including $1.0 billion to operating loss and $93 million for non operating income and expenses ($679 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.78 per share) in 2008 and $1.3 billion to operating income ($793 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $2.00 per share) in 2007. f. Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversion of debt totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) in 2009, $5 million ($0.01 per share) in 2008, $132 million ($0.33 per share) in 2007, $30 million ($0.14 per share) in 2006 and $40 million ($0.18 per share) in 2005; 2008 also includes charges totaling $22 million ($0.06 per share) associated with privately negotiated transactions to induce conversion of a portion of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock into FCX common stock. Also includes a favorable adjustment to income tax expense totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) in 2009, resulting from completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. g. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted guidance associated with accounting for stripping costs incurred during production in the mining industry, and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment ($149 million) to reduce beginning retained earnings for our deferred mining costs asset ($285 million) as of December 31, 2005, net of taxes, noncontrolling interests and inventory effects ($136 million). As a result, income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests was $35 million lower and net income was $19 million ($0.08 per share) lower than if we had not adopted this guidance. Effective January 1, 2006, we also adopted accounting guidance on share based payments. As a result, income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests was $28 million lower and net income was $16 million ($0.07 per share) lower than if we had not adopted this guidance. Results for prior years have not been restated. 63 Table of Contents FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (Continued) For comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007a 2006 a 2005 a FCX CONSOLIDATED MINING OPERATING DATA Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 4,103 4,030 3,884 3,639 3,912 Production (thousands of metric tons) 1,861 1,828 1,762 1,651 1,774 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 4,111 4,066 3,862 3,630 3,933 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 1,865 1,844 1,752 1,647 1,784 Average realized price per pound $ 2.60 $ 2.69 $ 3.22 b $ 2.80 b $ 1.66 b Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 2,664 1,291 2,329 1,863 2,923 Sales, excluding purchases 2,639 1,314 2,320 1,866 2,925 Average realized price per ounce $ 993 $ 861 $ 682 $ 566 c $ 454 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 54 73 70 68 62 Sales, excluding purchases 58 71 69 69 60 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 $ 21.87 $ 25.89 NORTH AMERICA COPPER MINES Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,147 1,430 1,320 1,305 1,365 Production (thousands of metric tons) 520 649 599 592 619 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 1,187 1,434 1,332 1,303 1,383 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 538 650 604 591 627 Average realized price per pound $ 2.38 $ 3.07 $ 3.10 d $ 2.29 d $ 1.49 d Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 25 30 30 31 30 100% Operating Data Solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 589,400 1,095,200 798,200 801,200 778,500 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.29 0.22 0.23 0.30 0.26 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 859 943 940 1,013 1,066 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 169,900 249,600 223,800 199,300 194,800 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 0.33 0.40 0.35 0.33 0.33 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 Copper recovery rate (percent) 86.0 82.9 84.5 85.0 83.9 Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper 364 599 501 414 419 Molybdenum 25 30 30 31 30 SOUTH AMERICA COPPER MINES Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,390 1,506 1,413 1,133 1,091 Production (thousands of metric tons) 631 683 641 514 495 Sales (millions of pounds) 1,394 1,521 1,399 1,126 1,093 Sales (thousands of metric tons) 632 690 635 511 496 Average realized price per pound $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 3.25 $ 3.03 $ 1.63 e Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 92 114 116 112 117 Sales 90 116 114 111 117 Average realized price per ounce $ 982 $ 853 $ 683 $ 552 $ 425 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 2 3 1 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 258,200 279,700 289,100 257,400 264,600 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.45 0.45 0.43 0.45 0.46 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 565 560 569 695 670 64 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007a 2006 a 2005 a SOUTH AMERICA COPPER MINES (continued) Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 181,300 181,400 167,900 68,500 68,700 Average ore grade (percent):f Copper 0.66 0.75 0.74 0.87 0.84 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 88.9 89.2 87.1 93.8 93.9 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 825 946 844 438 421 Gold (thousands of ounces) 92 114 116 112 117 Molybdenum (millions of pounds) 2 3 1 INDONESIA MINING Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,412 1,094 1,151 1,201 1,456 Production (thousands of metric tons) 640 496 522 545 660 Sales (millions of pounds) 1,400 1,111 1,131 1,201 1,457 Sales (thousands of metric tons) 635 504 513 545 661 Average realized price per pound $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 3.32 $ 3.13 $ 1.85 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 2,568 1,163 2,198 1,732 2,789 Sales 2,543 1,182 2,185 1,736 2,790 Average realized price per ounce $ 994 $ 861 $ 681 $ 567 c $ 456 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day) 238,300 192,900 212,600 229,400 216,200 Average ore grade: Copper (percent) 0.98 0.83 0.82 0.85 1.13 Gold (grams per metric ton) 1.30 0.66 1.24 0.85 1.65 Recovery rates (percent): Copper 90.6 90.1 90.5 86.1 89.2 Gold 83.7 79.9 86.2 80.9 83.1 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 1,641 1,109 1,211 1,300 1,689 Gold (thousands of ounces) 2,984 1,163 2,608 1,824 3,440 AFRICA MINING Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 154 g Sales 130 g Average realized price per pound $ 2.85 g Ore milled (metric tons per day) 7,300 g Average copper ore grade (percent) 3.69 g Copper recovery rate (percent) 92.1 g MOLYBDENUM OPERATIONS Molybdenum sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds)h 58 71 69 69 60 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 $ 21.87 $ 25.89 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day) 14,900 24,100 24,000 22,200 20,300 Average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.25 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.22 Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 27 40 39 37 32 a. For comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.27 per pound for 2007, $3.08 per pound for 2006 and $1.76 per pound for 2005. c. Amount was approximately $606 per ounce before a loss resulting from the redemption of FCXs Gold Denominated Preferred Stock, Series II. d. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.25 per pound for 2007, $3.06 per pound for 2006 and $1.69 per pound for 2005. e. Amount was $1.75 per pound before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs. f. Average ore grades of gold produced at our South America copper mines rounds to less than 0.001 grams per metric ton. g. Results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in March 2009. h. Includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. 65 Table of Contents For the ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculation, earnings consist of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, equity in affiliated companies net earnings, cumulative effect of accounting changes and fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest. For the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends calculation, we assumed that our preferred stock dividend requirements were equal to the pre tax earnings that would be required to cover those dividend requirements. We computed those pre tax earnings using the effective tax rate for each year. Our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was as follows for the years presented: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 9.3x a 9.9x 33.1x 15.9x Ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends 6.1x b 6.6x 14.3x 8.2x a. As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.4 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. b. As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.8 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. 66 Table of Contents Item 7. and 7A. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW and OUTLOOK In Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we, us and our refer to Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The results of operations reported and summarized below are not necessarily indicative of future operating results (refer to Cautionary Statement for further discussion). In particular, the financial results for 2007 include the operations of Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge) from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, not the full twelve month period because of the accounting treatment for the acquisition. References to Notes are Notes included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations all references to earnings or losses per share are on a diluted basis, unless otherwise noted. We are one of the worlds largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. Our portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, which contains the largest single recoverable copper reserve and the largest single gold reserve of any mine in the world based on the latest available reserve data provided by third party industry consultants; significant mining operations in North and South America; and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). We also operate Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in Spain. During 2009, approximately 61 percent of our consolidated copper production was from our Grasberg, Morenci and Cerro Verde mines, and more than half of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, approximately 25 percent as cathodes and approximately 21 percent as rod (principally from our North America operations). We also produce gold as a by product at our copper mines, primarily at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, which accounted for approximately 96 percent of our consolidated gold production for 2009. For 2009, approximately half of our consolidated molybdenum production was from the Henderson molybdenum mine and approximately 46 percent was produced as a by product at our North America copper mines. Refer to Operations for further discussion of our mining operations. The dramatic declines in copper and molybdenum prices in late 2008 and the deterioration of the economic and credit environment limited our ability to invest in growth projects and required us to make adjustments to our near term plans in late 2008 and early 2009 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). However, during 2009 copper prices improved from the January 2009 low of $1.38 per pound. Rising copper prices, along with higher volumes from the Grasberg mine and a lower cost structure at the North America copper mines, have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position during 2009, allowing us to manage volatile conditions effectively, reduce debt and reinstate cash dividends to shareholders, while maintaining our future growth opportunities. In addition, we have announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). At December 31, 2009, we had $2.7 billion in consolidated cash ($2.2 billion of which was available to our parent company). We had no borrowings and $39 million of letters of credit issued under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ($961 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). Our long term debt at December 31, 2009, was $6.3 billion. Although we have no significant debt maturities in the near term (refer to Capital Resources and Liquidity), during 2009, we repaid $1.0 billion in debt in advance of scheduled maturities (refer to Note 10). From January 1, 2010, to February 25, 2010, we have made additional open market debt purchases totaling $269 million for $293 million (refer to Note 23). We may consider additional opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities or redeem our currently redeemable Senior Floating Rate Notes. We view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the worlds economy and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. Refer to Consolidated Results for further discussion of our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 67 Table of Contents Outlook Following are our actual consolidated sales volumes for 2009 and our projected consolidated sales volumes for 2010: 2009 2010 (Actual) (Projected) Copper (billions of recoverable pounds): North America copper mines 1.2 1.0 South America copper mines 1.4 1.3 Indonesia mining 1.4 1.2 Africa mining 0.1 0.2 4.1 3.8 a Gold (millions of recoverable ounces): Indonesia mining 2.5 1.7 South America copper mines 0.1 0.1 2.6 1.8 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds)b 58 60 a. Represents the sum of projected copper sales volumes before rounding. b. Includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. Estimated sales volumes of approximately 3.8 billion pounds of copper for 2010 are lower than 2009 sales of 4.1 billion pounds primarily because of lower volumes in Indonesia as a result of transitioning to a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2010 and at our North America copper mines reflecting the impact of reduced 2009 mining activities on 2010 leaching operations. Estimated sales volumes of approximately 1.8 million ounces of gold for 2010 are lower than 2009 sales of 2.6 million ounces as a result of transitioning to a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2010. Estimated sales volumes of approximately 60 million pounds of molybdenum for 2010 approximate 2009 sales of 58 million pounds. Our projected sales volumes for 2010 depend on the achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors. Assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,100 per ounce of gold and $12 per pound of molybdenum for 2010, we estimate our consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by product credits and excluding Africa mining) for our copper mining operations would average approximately $0.86 per pound in 2010, compared with $0.55 per pound in 2009. Average unit net cash costs for 2010 are estimated to be higher than 2009 as a result of lower projected 2010 copper and gold sales volumes from Grasberg, combined with increases in commodity based input costs and foreign currency exchange rates. Consolidated unit net cash costs would be impacted by approximately $0.025 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in gold prices and approximately $0.01 per pound for each $1 per pound change in molybdenum prices. Consolidated revenues, operating cash flows and net income vary significantly with fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum, sales volumes and other factors. Based on the above projected consolidated sales volumes and assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,100 per ounce of gold and $12 per pound of molybdenum in 2010, our consolidated operating cash flows would approximate $5.3 billion in 2010, net of an estimated $0.4 billion for working capital requirements. Operating cash flows for 2010 would be impacted by approximately $260 million for each $0.10 per pound change in copper prices, $50 million for each $50 per ounce change in gold prices and $45 million for each $1 per pound change in molybdenum prices. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to approximate $1.7 billion, including $0.9 billion for sustaining capital and $0.8 billion for major projects. For 2009, capital expenditures totaled $1.6 billion, which included $0.8 billion for major projects, $0.6 billion for sustaining capital and $0.2 billion for a property acquisition adjacent to our Sierrita mine. We have announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). A number of studies are under way, which may result in increased capital spending programs. 68 Table of Contents COPPER, GOLD AND MOLYBDENUM MARKETS The graphs below illustrate the movements in metals prices from January 2000 through January 2010. World prices for copper, gold and molybdenum have fluctuated significantly during this period. The London Metal Exchange (LME) spot copper price varied from a low of $0.60 per pound in 2001 to a high of $4.08 per pound in 2008, the London gold price fluctuated from a low of $256 per ounce in 2001 to a high of $1,213 per ounce in 2009, and the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price ranged from a low of $2.19 per pound in 2000 to a high of $39.25 per pound in 2005. Copper, gold and molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control as described further in our Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009. * Excludes Shanghai stocks, producer, consumer and merchant stocks. The graph above presents LME spot copper prices and reported stocks of copper at the LME and the New York Mercantile Exchange (COMEX) from January 2000 through January 2010. From 2006 through most of 2008, disruptions associated with strikes and other operational issues, combined with growing demand from China and other emerging economies resulted in low levels of inventory. Beginning in late 2008, slowing consumption led to increases in inventory levels; however, Chinas increased buying activity contributed to a decline in exchange inventories during the first half of 2009. After reaching a low for the year in July 2009, inventories grew during the second half of 2009 with combined LME and COMEX stocks totaling approximately 592 thousand metric tons, or approximately two weeks of global consumption, at December 31, 2009. Turmoil in the United States (U.S.) financial markets and concerns about the global economy negatively impacted copper prices in late 2008, which declined to a four year low of $1.26 per pound in December 2008; however, copper prices improved during 2009 as a result of strong Chinese import activity and supply limitations. During 2009, LME spot copper prices ranged from $1.38 per pound to $3.33 per pound, averaged $2.34 per pound and closed at $3.33 per pound on December 31, 2009. While the near term outlook is uncertain, we believe the underlying fundamentals of the copper business remain positive, supported by limited supplies from existing mines and the absence of significant new development projects. Future copper prices are expected to be volatile and are likely to be influenced by demand from China, economic activity in the U.S. and other industrialized countries, the timing of the development of new supplies of copper and production levels of mines and copper smelters. The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. 69 Table of Contents The graph above presents London gold prices from January 2000 through January 2010. Growing investment demand and a weak U.S. dollar have continued to support gold prices, which reached a new record high of $1,213 per ounce in December 2009. During 2009, gold prices ranged from approximately $810 per ounce to $1,213 per ounce, averaged approximately $972 per ounce and closed at $1,104 per ounce on December 31, 2009. London gold prices closed at $1,079 per ounce on January 29, 2010. The graph above presents Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average prices from January 2000 through January 2010. In late 2008, molybdenum prices declined significantly as a result of the financial market turmoil and a decline in demand; however, molybdenum prices improved during 2009 supported by Chinese imports and supply reductions. During 2009, the weekly average price of molybdenum ranged from $7.83 per pound to $18.00 per pound, averaged $11.08 per pound and was $11.75 per pound on December 31, 2009. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price was $14.88 per pound on January 29, 2010. 70 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. The preparation of these statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We base these estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we consider reasonable under the circumstances; however, reported results could differ from those based on the current estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The areas requiring the use of managements estimates are also discussed in Note 1 under the subheading Use of Estimates. Management has reviewed the following discussion of its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Mineral Reserves. Recoverable proven and probable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates. Estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth of our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. In addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these estimates have been reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. The following table summarizes changes in our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper, gold and molybdenum reserves during 2008 and 2009: Copper Gold Molybdenum (billion (million (billion pounds) ounces) pounds) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2007 93.2 41.0 2.04 Net additions/revisions 12.8 0.3 0.51 Production (4.0) (1.3) (0.07) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2008 102.0 40.0 2.48 Net additions/revisions 6.3 (0.1) 0.16 Production (4.1) (2.7) (0.05) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2009 104.2 37.2 2.59 Net additions to recoverable proven and probable copper reserves during 2008 included additions of 7.5 billion pounds at the Cerro Verde mine in South America, 3.9 billion pounds at our North America copper mines and 1.6 billion pounds at the Tenke Fungurume mine, partially offset by revisions at other mines. Net additions for 2008 replaced over 300 percent of our 2008 copper production. Net additions to recoverable copper reserves during 2009 include additions of 1.7 billion pounds at our North America copper mines, 3.0 billion pounds at our Cerro Verde mine in South America and 2.6 billion pounds at the Tenke Fungurume mine, partially offset by revisions at other mines. Net additions for 2009 replaced approximately 150 percent of current year copper production. Net additions to recoverable copper reserves reflect analysis of exploratory data gained through core drilling undertaken in 2007 and 2008, as well as exploration activities during 2009. Refer to Note 21 for further information regarding estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves. As discussed in Note 1, we depreciate our life of mine mining and milling assets and values assigned to proven and probable reserves using the unit of production (UOP) method based on our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves, and also have other assets that are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations, including changes to prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values. Based on projected copper sales volumes for 2010 (refer to Overview and Outlook), if estimated copper reserves at our mines were 10 percent higher at December 31, 2009, we estimate that our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 2010 would decrease by $31 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders), and a 10 percent decrease in copper reserves would increase depreciation, depletion and amortization expense by $38 million ($18 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders). We perform annual assessments of our existing assets in connection with the review 71 Table of Contents of mine operating and development plans. If it is determined that assigned asset lives do not reflect the expected remaining period of benefit, any change could affect prospective depreciation rates. At December 31, 2009, our long lived assets include amounts assigned to proven and probable reserves totaling $4.3 billion. As discussed in Note 1, we review and evaluate our long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and changes to our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves could have an impact on our assessment of asset recoverability. Impairment of Assets. We evaluate our long lived assets (to be held and used) for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. In evaluating our long lived assets for recoverability, estimates of after tax undiscounted future cash flows of our individual mining operations are used, with impairment losses measured by reference to fair value. As quoted market prices are unavailable for our individual mining operations, fair value is determined through the use of discounted estimated future cash flows. The estimated cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations are derived from current business plans, which are developed using near term price forecasts reflective of the current price environment and managements projections for long term average metal prices. In addition to near and long term metal price assumptions, other key estimates include commodity based and other input costs; proven and probable reserves, including any costs to develop the reserves and the timing of producing the reserves; and the use of appropriate escalation and discount rates. Because the cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations require us to make several estimates and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainty, changes in these estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our long lived assets values. Events that could result in impairment of our long lived assets include, but are not limited to, (i) decreases in future metal prices, (ii) decreases in estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves and (iii) any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on mine site production levels or costs. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the then current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business, and therefore, evaluated our long lived assets for impairment. Projected metal prices represented the most significant assumption used in the cash flow estimates to assess recoverability and measure fair value of our individual mining operations. At the time of the March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge, metal price projections used to value the net assets acquired ranged from near term prices of $2.98 per pound for copper declining over an eight year period to $1.20 per pound and $26.20 per pound for molybdenum declining over a five year period to $8.00 per pound; our December 31, 2008, impairment evaluations were based on price assumptions reflecting prevailing copper futures prices for three years, which ranged from approximately $1.40 per pound to $1.50 per pound, and a long term average price of $1.60 per pound. Molybdenum prices were assumed to average $8.00 per pound. Our evaluation resulted in the recognition of asset impairment charges totaling $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.34 per share) for 2008. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these asset impairment charges. Additionally, goodwill was recorded in connection with the March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge and was assigned to the reporting units, or individual mines, that were expected to benefit from the business combination. Goodwill is required to be evaluated at least annually and at any other time if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Our annual goodwill impairment test was performed in fourth quarter 2008, which resulted in the full impairment of goodwill and the recognition of charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $15.69 per share). Refer to Note 6 for further discussion. Recoverable Copper. We record, as inventory, applicable costs for copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles that are expected to be processed in the future based on proven processing technologies. Mill and leach stockpiles are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are stated at the lower of cost or market (refer to Note 4 for discussion of lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory adjustments recorded in 2009 and 2008). Accounting for recoverable copper from mill and leach stockpiles represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, and therefore, requires management to employ reasonable estimation methods and (ii) recovery rates from leach stockpiles can vary significantly. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on 72 Table of Contents surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be extracted into copper concentrate almost immediately. Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small scale laboratory tests, small to large scale column testing (which simulates the production scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. At December 31, 2009, estimated recoverable copper was 2.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles (with a carrying value of $1.5 billion) and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (with a carrying value of $488 million). Reclamation and Closure Costs. Reclamation is an ongoing activity that occurs throughout the life of a mine. We record the fair value of our estimated asset retirement obligations (AROs) associated with tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. Fair value is measured as the present value of cash flow estimates after considering inflation and then applying a market risk premium. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. These cost estimates may differ from financial assurance cost estimates for reclamation activities because of a variety of factors, including obtaining updated cost estimates for reclamation activities, the timing of reclamation activities, changes in scope and the exclusion of certain costs not considered reclamation and closure costs. Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of our accounting policy for reclamation and closure costs. Generally, ARO activities are specified by regulations or in permits issued by the relevant governing authority, and management judgment is required to estimate the extent and timing of expenditures based on life of mine planning. Accounting for reclamation and closure costs represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) we will not incur most of these costs for a number of years, requiring us to make estimates over a long period, (ii) reclamation and closure laws and regulations could change in the future and or circumstances affecting our operations could change, either of which could result in significant changes to our current plans, (iii) calculating the fair value of our AROs requires management to estimate projected cash flows, make long term assumptions about inflation rates, determine our credit adjusted, risk free interest rates and determine market risk premiums that are appropriate for our operations and (iv) given the magnitude of our estimated reclamation and closure costs, changes in any or all of these estimates could have a significant impact on our results of operations. At least annually, we review our ARO estimates for changes in the projected timing of certain reclamation costs, changes in cost estimates, and additional AROs incurred during the period. Following is a summary of changes in our AROs for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of year $ 712 $ 728 $ 30 Liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge 531 a Liabilities incurred 12 5 1 Revisions to cash flow estimates (17 ) 21 179 b Accretion expense 52 51 27 Spending (28 ) (91 ) (40 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment (2 ) Balance at end of year $ 731 $ 712 $ 728 a. The fair value of AROs assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge was estimated based on projected cash flows, an estimated long term annual inflation rate of 2.4 percent, a discount rate based on FCXs estimated credit adjusted, risk free interest rate of 7.8 percent and a market risk premium of 10 percent to reflect what a third party might require to assume these AROs. b. During 2007, Chino and Tyrone each submitted updated third party closure cost estimates to the state of New Mexico as part of the permit renewal process. As a result, we revised our cash flow estimates and increased our ARO by $95 million for 73 Table of Contents Chino and $45 million for Tyrone. During 2009, Tyrone filed an appeal regarding the point of groundwater withdrawal. Finalized closure plan requirements, including those resulting from resolution of the appeal, may result in additional adjustments. Additionally, PT Freeport Indonesia updated its cost estimates primarily for changes to its plans for the treatment of acidic water, resulting in an increase of $33 million. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. Environmental Obligations. Our mining, exploration, production and historical operating activities are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, and compliance with those laws requires significant expenditures. Environmental expenditures for closed facilities and closed portions of operating facilities are expensed or capitalized depending upon their future economic benefits. The general guidance provided by U.S. GAAP requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 1 for discussion of our accounting policy for environmental expenditures. Accounting for environmental obligations represents a critical accounting estimate because changes to environmental laws and regulations and or circumstances affecting our operations, could result in significant changes to our estimates, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. We review changes in facts and circumstances associated with the environmental obligations on a quarterly basis. Judgments and estimates are based upon available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, remediation experience, whether or not we are a potentially responsible party (PRP), the ability of other PRPs to pay their allocated portions and take into consideration reasonably possible outcomes. Our cost estimates can change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or extent of site contamination, required remediation methods and actions by or against governmental agencies or private parties. At December 31, 2009, environmental obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheets totaled approximately $1.5 billion, which reflect obligations for environmental liabilities attributed to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. Following is a summary of changes in our estimated environmental obligations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of year $ 1,401 $ 1,268 $ Liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge 117 1,334 Accretion expensea 102 95 Additions 40 36 6 Reductions (3 ) (1 ) (1 ) Spending (76 ) (114 ) (71 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,464 $ 1,401 $ 1,268 a. Represents accretion of the fair values of environmental obligations assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, which were determined on a discounted cash flow basis. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of environmental obligations. Deferred Taxes. In preparing our annual consolidated financial statements, we estimate the actual amount of taxes currently payable or receivable as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in income in the period in which such changes are enacted. A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be realized. In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each jurisdiction. If we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets, we will increase our valuation allowance. Conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to realize all or a portion of the related benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided, all or a portion of the related valuation allowance will be reduced. 74 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, our valuation allowances totaled $2.2 billion and covered all of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards and U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards, and a portion of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards and U.S. minimum tax credit carryforwards. This valuation allowance includes $44 million relating to tax benefits that, if recognized, would be credited directly to contributed capital. At December 31, 2008, our valuation allowances totaled $1.8 billion and covered all of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards, U.S. minimum tax credit carryforwards, foreign net operating loss carryforwards and U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards, and also covered a portion of our net U.S. deferred tax assets. The $394 million increase in the valuation allowance during 2009 was primarily the result of an increase to the foreign tax credit carryforwards. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Financial Data (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenuesa $ 15,040 b $ 17,796 b $ 16,939 b,c Operating income (loss) 6,503 b (12,710 )b,d,e 6,555 b,c,e Income (loss) from continuing operations 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,733 Net income (loss) 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,779 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 785 617 802 Net income (loss) attributable to FCX common stockholdersf 2,527 g,h (11,341 )d,e,h 2,769 c,e,h Diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations $ 5.86 $ (29.72 ) $ 7.41 Discontinued operations 0.09 Diluted net income (loss) $ 5.86 g,h $ (29.72 )d,e,h $ 7.50 c,e,h Diluted weighted average common shares outstandingi 469 382 397 Mining Operating Data Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 4,103 4,030 3,367 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 4,111 4,066 3,357 Average realized price per pound $ 2.60 $ 2.69 $ 3.29 c Site production and delivery costs per poundj $ 1.12 $ 1.51 $ 1.18 Unit net cash costs per poundj $ 0.55 $ 1.16 $ 0.76 Gold (recoverable) Production (thousands of ounces) 2,664 1,291 2,308 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of ounces) 2,639 1,314 2,298 Average realized price per ounce $ 993 $ 861 $ 682 Molybdenum (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 54 73 56 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 58 71 52 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 26.81 a. Includes the impact of adjustments to provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales recognized in prior periods. Refer to Revenues and Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion. b. Following is a summary of revenues by operating division (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 North America copper mines $ 3,235 $ 5,265 $ 4,093 South America copper mines 3,839 4,166 3,879 Indonesia mining 5,908 3,412 4,808 Africa mining 389 Molybdenum 847 2,488 1,746 Rod & Refining 3,356 5,557 5,140 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 2,341 2,388 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (5,433 ) (5,115 ) Total FCX revenues $ 15,040 $ 17,796 $ 16,939 75 Table of Contents Following is a summary of operating income (loss) by operating division (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 North America copper mines $ 1,020 $ (11,522 ) $ 1,428 South America copper mines 2,001 (694 ) 2,224 Indonesia mining 4,034 1,307 3,033 Africa mining 8 (26 ) (12 ) Molybdenum 126 (1,473 ) 353 Rod & Refining 14 2 14 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining (56 ) 10 3 Corporate, other & eliminations (644 ) (314 ) (488 ) Total FCX operating income (loss) $ 6,503 $ (12,710 ) $ 6,555 Refer to Note 20 for further discussion of our operating divisions and business segments. c. Includes charges to revenues for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.27 per share) and a reduction in 2007 average realized copper prices of $0.05 per pound. d. Includes long lived asset impairments and other charges totaling $11.0 billion ($6.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.52 per share), goodwill impairment charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $15.69 per share), and charges for LCM inventory adjustments totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.26 per share). Refer to Notes 2 and 6 and Critical Accounting Estimates Asset Impairments for further discussion. e. Includes the impacts of purchase accounting fair value adjustments associated with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, which were primarily because of increased carrying values of acquired property, plant and equipment and metal inventories, including mill and leach stockpiles, and also includes amounts for non operating income and expense mostly related to accretion of the fair values of assumed environmental obligations (determined on a discounted cash flow basis). These impacts totaled $1.1 billion, including $1.0 billion to operating loss and $93 million for non operating income and expenses, ($679 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.78 per share) in 2008 and $1.3 billion to operating income ($793 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $2.00 per share) in 2007. Refer to Note 20 for a summary of the impacts of purchase accounting fair value adjustments on our business segments for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. f. After noncontrolling interests and preferred dividends. g. Includes charges of $43 million ($0.09 per share) for the partial settlement of the City of Blackwell lawsuit (see Note 14), and also includes a favorable adjustment to income tax expense totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) resulting from the completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. h. Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversions of debt totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) in 2009 associated with the redemption of our $340 million of 6% Senior Notes and open market purchases of our 8.25% Senior Notes, our 8.375% Senior Notes and our 8% Senior Notes, $5 million ($0.01 per share) in 2008 associated with an open market purchase of our 9% Senior Notes and $132 million ($0.33 per share) in 2007 primarily related to premiums paid and the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with early repayments of debt. Refer to Note 10 for further discussion. i. As applicable, reflects assumed conversion of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock (which converted into 17.9 million shares of FCX common stock in September 2009) and 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (refer to Note 12). In addition, the 2009 period includes the effects of the 26.8 million shares of common stock we sold in February 2009. Common shares outstanding on December 31, 2009, totaled 430 million. j. Reflects per pound weighted average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for all copper mines, excluding net noncash and nonrecurring costs and Africa mining. For reconciliations of the per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs and to Product Revenues and Production Costs. 76 Table of Contents Revenues Consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, molybdenum, gold and other metals by our North and South America copper mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operation, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operation, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes, and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Our mining revenues for 2009 include sales of copper (approximately 75 percent), gold (approximately 17 percent) and molybdenum (approximately 5 percent). Consolidated revenues totaled $15.0 billion in 2009, compared with $17.8 billion in 2008 and $16.9 billion in 2007. Following is a summary of year to year changes in our consolidated revenues (in millions): 2009 2008 Consolidated revenues prior year $ 17,796 $ 16,939 Higher (lower) sales volumes from mining operations: Copper 121 2,367 Gold 1,141 (671 ) Molybdenum (395 ) 505 Higher (lower) price realizations from mining operations: Copper (288 ) (2,631 ) Gold 349 235 Molybdenum (1,056 ) 266 Lower purchased copper and molybdenum (1,414 ) (5 ) (Lower) higher adjustments, primarily for prior year provisionally priced sales (239 ) 309 Lower Atlantic Copper revenues (449 ) (47 ) Impact of the 2007 copper price protection program 175 Other, including intercompany eliminations (526 ) 354 Consolidated revenues current year $ 15,040 $ 17,796 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated sales volumes totaled 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 2.6 million ounces of gold and 58 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009, compared with 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 1.3 million ounces of gold and 71 million pounds of molybdenum in 2008. Higher copper sales volumes in 2009, when compared with 2008 (45 million pounds), primarily resulted from mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit and the contribution of 2009 sales volumes from the Tenke Fungurume mine, partly offset by lower sales volumes as a result of production curtailments at the North America copper mines and lower ore grades at Candelaria. Mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit also resulted in substantially higher gold sales volumes in 2009. Lower molybdenum sales volumes in 2009 reflected reduced demand in the metallurgical and chemical sectors. Refer to Operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. Consolidated revenues in 2009 were also impacted by lower copper and molybdenum prices compared to 2008. Realized copper prices decreased in 2009 to an average of $2.60 per pound, compared with $2.69 per pound in 2008. More significantly, realized molybdenum prices decreased to an average of $12.36 per pound in 2009, compared with $30.55 per pound in 2008. Partly offsetting lower copper and molybdenum prices were higher realized gold prices, which increased to an average of $993 per ounce in 2009, compared with $861 per ounce in 2008. We primarily purchase copper cathode to be processed by our Rod and Refining segment when production from our North America copper mines does not meet customer demand. Accordingly, the decrease in purchased copper for 2009, compared to 2008, resulted from lower demand. Under the long established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of our concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME prices (refer to Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion). Adjustments to the December 31, 2008, provisionally priced copper sales resulted in a net increase to consolidated revenues of $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or 77 Table of Contents $0.13 per share) in 2009, compared with an increase of $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.30 per share) in 2008. 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated sales volumes in 2008 totaled 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 1.3 million ounces of gold and 71 million pounds of molybdenum, compared with 3.4 billion pounds of copper, 2.3 million ounces of gold and 52 million pounds of molybdenum in 2007. Higher copper and molybdenum sales volumes in 2008 reflected a full twelve months of sales at our North and South America copper mines and Molybdenum operations, compared with 2007, which included sales from these operations beginning March 20, 2007. Higher copper sales volumes in 2008 also reflected additional copper production from the Safford mine, which began production in December 2007, and higher production from the Cerro Verde concentrator, which reached design capacity in mid 2007. Gold sales volumes for 2008 were lower than in 2007 because of mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first nine months of 2008, which resulted in lower grades and recovery rates. Refer to Operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. Realized copper prices decreased in 2008 to an average of $2.69 per pound, compared with $3.34 per pound (excluding the impact from the 2007 copper price protection program) in 2007. Realized gold and molybdenum prices increased in 2008 to an average of $861 per ounce for gold and $30.55 per pound for molybdenum, compared with $682 per ounce for gold and $26.81 per pound for molybdenum in 2007. Adjustments to the December 31, 2007, provisionally priced copper sales increased consolidated revenues by $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.30 per share) in 2008, compared with a decrease of $42 million ($18 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.05 per share) in 2007. On limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. Also, in connection with the Phelps Dodge acquisition, we assumed the 2007 copper price protection program, which resulted in charges to revenues in 2007 totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.27 per share). The 2007 copper price protection program matured on December 31, 2007. We do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future. Production and Delivery Costs 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $7.0 billion in 2009 compared with $10.4 billion in 2008. Lower production and delivery costs for 2009 primarily reflect the effects of lower operating rates at our North America copper mines, lower commodity based input costs and lower purchases of copper. Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally electricity, diesel, coal and natural gas. Commodity based input costs began declining in late 2008 and we realized the benefits of these declines in 2009. Excluding Africa mining, energy costs approximated 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs in 2009, compared with approximately 25 percent in 2008, and included purchases of approximately 190 million gallons of diesel fuel, 5,700 gigawatt hours of electricity at our North and South America mines (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation), 800 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia, and 1 million MMBTU (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. For 2010, we estimate energy costs, excluding Africa mining, will approximate 22 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. Consolidated unit site production and delivery costs for our copper mining operations, excluding net noncash and nonrecurring costs and Africa mining, averaged $1.12 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.51 per pound of copper in 2008. Lower site production and delivery costs in 2009 reflected higher copper ore grades at Grasberg, reduced operating rates at our North America copper mines to suspend production of high cost incremental volumes, achievement of cost savings initiatives and operating efficiencies, and lower energy and other commodity based input costs. Refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs for further discussion of unit net cash costs associated with our operating divisions, and to Product Revenues and Production Costs for reconciliations of per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. We will incorporate Africa mining in our consolidated unit net cash cost disclosures upon completion of ramp up activities, which is expected in 2010. 78 Table of Contents 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $10.4 billion in 2008 compared with $8.5 billion in 2007. Higher production and delivery costs for 2008 reflect a full year of costs associated with our acquired copper and molybdenum operations in North and South America and the impact of higher costs, principally for commodity based input costs such as energy and sulphuric acid. Partly offsetting these higher costs were $656 million of lower purchase accounting impacts associated with increased inventory values that were mostly realized in 2007. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.0 billion in 2009 compared with $1.8 billion in 2008. The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense reflected the impact of long lived asset impairments recognized at December 31, 2008 (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Impairments of Assets for further discussion). 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.8 billion in 2008 compared with $1.2 billion in 2007. The increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense reflected higher purchase accounting impacts of $293 million primarily related to a full twelve months in 2008, and also reflected higher depreciation expense under the unit of production method resulting from a full year of production from our North and South America copper mines in 2008. LCM Inventory Adjustments Inventories are required to be recorded at the lower of cost or market. In first quarter 2009, we recognized charges of $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.03 per share) for lower of cost or market (LCM) molybdenum inventory adjustments. There were no further LCM inventory adjustments recorded subsequent to first quarter 2009. In 2008, we recorded LCM inventory adjustments totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.26 per share). Inventories acquired in connection with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge (including long term mill and leach stockpiles) were recorded at fair value using near term price forecasts reflecting the then current price environment and managements projections for long term average metal prices. The charges recognized in 2008 were based on prevailing copper futures prices for three years, which ranged from approximately $1.40 per pound to $1.50 per pound, and a long term average price of $1.60 per pound. Molybdenum prices were assumed to average $8.00 per pound. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $321 million in 2009 compared with $269 million in 2008. Higher selling, general and administrative expenses primarily reflected a net increase in incentive compensation costs, partly offset by reductions associated with administrative costs savings initiatives. 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $269 million in 2008 compared with $466 million in 2007. Lower selling, general and administrative expenses primarily reflected lower incentive compensation costs in 2008 because of weaker financial results. Exploration and Research Expenses Exploration activities are being conducted near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where we currently operate. Significantly expanded drilling activities during 2007 and 2008 were successful in providing reserve additions and in identifying potential additional ore adjacent to existing ore bodies. Results indicate opportunities for future potential reserve additions at Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad in North America, at Cerro Verde in South America and in the Tenke Fungurume district. Consolidated exploration and research expenses totaled $90 million in 2009, $292 million in 2008 and $145 million in 2007. Throughout most of 2008, expenditures primarily reflected increased exploration efforts in North America and also in Africa, including targets outside the area of initial development at Tenke Fungurume. However, in response to weak market conditions at the end of 2008, we revised operating plans to significantly reduce exploration costs in 2009. During 2009, we focused on analyzing exploration data gained through the core drilling 79 Table of Contents previously undertaken in addition to conducting new activities. For 2010, exploration expenditures are expected to approximate $100 million. Exploration activities will continue to focus on the potential in our existing mineral districts. Long Lived Asset Impairments and Other Charges During 2009, net restructuring and other charges totaled $77 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share), which included charges of $54 million ($43 million to net income or $0.09 per share) associated with the partial settlement of the City of Blackwell lawsuit. During 2008, we recognized charges totaling $11.0 billion ($6.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.52 per share) for long lived asset impairments and other charges. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the declines in copper and molybdenum prices and the deterioration of the economic environment represented significant adverse changes in the business, and therefore evaluated our long lived assets for impairment as of December 31, 2008, which resulted in the recognition of asset impairment charges totaling $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.34 per share). In addition, during fourth quarter 2008, we recorded net restructuring and other charges totaling $111 million ($67 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.18 per share) associated with our revised operating plans, including contract termination costs, other project cancellation costs, employee severance and benefits and special retirement benefits and curtailments. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these charges. Goodwill Impairment Our annual impairment test of goodwill at December 31, 2008, resulted in the recognition of goodwill impairment charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $15.69 per share). Refer to Note 6 for further discussion. Interest Expense, Net Consolidated interest expense (before capitalization) totaled $664 million in 2009, $706 million in 2008 and $660 million in 2007. Lower interest expense in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected net repayments of debt and lower interest rates on our variable rate debt during 2009. Higher interest expense in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected the impacts associated with accretion of the fair values of environmental obligations (determined on a discounted cash flow basis) assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, partly offset by lower interest expense associated with net repayments of debt during 2007. Refer to Capital Resources and Liquidity Financing Activities for discussion of debt repayments. Capitalized interest is primarily related to our development projects and totaled $78 million in 2009, $122 million in 2008 and $147 million in 2007. The decrease in capitalized interest in 2009 primarily reflects the substantial completion of development activities at our Tenke Fungurume mine. Refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion. Losses on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $48 million ($43 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.09 per share), including $14 million ($13 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders) associated with the redemption of our $340 million of 6% Senior Notes and $34 million ($30 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders) for open market purchases of our 8.25% Senior Notes, 8.375% Senior Notes and 8% Senior Notes. During 2008, we recorded net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $6 million ($5 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.01 per share) associated with an open market purchase of $33 million of our 9% Senior Notes. During 2007, we recorded net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $173 million ($132 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.33 per share) primarily related to the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with early repayment of amounts under the $11.5 billion senior credit facility, including the refinancing of the Tranche B term loan. Also included was $17 million ($10 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.02 per share) related to premiums paid and the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with the May 2007 redemption of our 10% Senior Notes. 80 Table of Contents Refer to Note 10 for further discussion of these transactions. Gains on Sales of Assets Gains on sales of assets totaled $13 million ($8 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.02 per share) in 2008 and $85 million ($52 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share) in 2007 primarily associated with sales of marketable securities. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net, totaled $(53) million in 2009, $(22) million in 2008 and $157 million in 2007. The decrease in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to lower interest income ($46 million). The decrease in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily related to lower interest income ($82 million) and higher foreign currency exchange losses ($64 million) mostly associated with estimated Chilean tax payments. (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes Our income tax provision for 2009 resulted from taxes on international operations ($2.3 billion) and U.S. operations ($35 million). Our effective tax rate is sensitive to changes in commodity prices and the mix of income between U.S. and international operations. The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 40 percent in 2009 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia, which was taxed at an effective tax rate of 42 percent. Our benefit from income taxes in 2008 resulted from U.S. operations ($3.4 billion), partly offset by taxes on international operations ($604 million). The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 21 percent in 2008 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to goodwill impairment charges, which were non deductible for tax purposes, and the recognition of a valuation allowance against U.S. federal alternative minimum tax credits, partly offset by benefits for percentage depletion and U.S. state income taxes. A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated (provision for) benefit from income taxes for 2009 and 2008 follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Income Tax Income Tax Income Effective (Provision) Income Effective (Provision) (Loss)a Tax Rate Benefit (Loss)a Tax Rate Benefit U.S. $ 117 70% $ (82 ) $ 1,258 15% $ (191 ) South America 2,010 32% (650 ) 1,752 32% (553 ) Indonesia 4,000 42% (1,697 ) 1,432 43% (612 ) Africa (60 ) 25% 15 (187 ) 35% 66 Asset impairment charges N/A (10,867 ) 39% 4,212 Goodwill impairment charges N/A (5,987 ) N/A LCM inventory adjustments (19 ) 20% 4 (782 ) 38% 299 Eliminations and other (232 ) N/A 60 72 N/A (18 ) Adjustments N/A N/A 43 b N/A N/A (359 )c Consolidated FCX $ 5,816 40% $ (2,307 ) $ (13,309 ) 21% $ 2,844 a. Represents income (loss) from continuing operations (by geographic location) before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings. b. Includes a favorable adjustment totaling $43 million resulting from completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. c. Represents an adjustment to establish a valuation allowance against U.S. federal alternative minimum tax credits. Our estimated consolidated effective tax rate for 2010 will vary with commodity price changes and the mix of income from international and U.S. operations. Assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound for copper, $1,100 per ounce for gold, $12 per pound for molybdenum and current sales estimates, we estimate our annual consolidated effective tax rate will approximate 37 percent; however, the rate would range from approximately 40 percent at $2.50 per pound for copper to approximately 37 percent at $3.50 per pound for copper. 81 Table of Contents Our income tax provision from continuing operations in 2007 resulted from taxes on international operations ($2.2 billion) and U.S. operations ($215 million). The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 39 percent for 2007 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to (i) withholding taxes related to earnings from Indonesia and South America mining operations, (ii) a U.S. foreign tax credit limitation and (iii) an adjustment associated with the reversal of the Phelps Dodge indefinite reinvestment assertion on certain earnings in South America, partly offset by a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion and an international tax rate differential. A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for 2007 follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2007 Income Effective Income Tax (Loss)a Tax Rate Provision U.S. $ 976 22% $ (215 ) South America 2,254 33% (742 ) Indonesia 2,860 46% (1,326 ) Africa (3 ) NM* (4 ) Eliminations and other 24 N/A (2 ) Adjustments N/A N/A (111 )b Consolidated FCX $ 6,111 39% $ (2,400 ) * NM Not meaningful a. Represents income from continuing operations (by geographic location) before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings. b. Represents an adjustment for a one time charge associated with the reversal of the Phelps Dodge indefinite reinvestment assertion on certain earnings in South America. This adjustment was fully offset by a reduction in noncontrolling interests share of net income. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of income taxes. OPERATIONS For comparative purposes, certain of the operating data included in this section for our North America copper mines, South America copper mines and Molybdenum operations for the year 2007, combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. North America Copper Mines We currently have six operating copper mines in North America Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford and Miami in Arizona, and Tyrone in New Mexico. All of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci, an unincorporated joint venture, in which we own an 85 percent undivided interest. The North America copper mines include open pit mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations. In addition to copper, the Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad mines produce molybdenum as a by product. A majority of the copper produced at our North America copper mines is cast into copper rod by our Rod & Refining operations. Rod and wire sales to outside wire and cable manufacturers represented approximately 72 percent of North America copper sales in 2009. The remainder of our North America copper sales is primarily in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate. Refer to Note 20 for further discussion of our reportable segment in the North America copper mines division. In response to weak market conditions, operating plans at our North America copper mines were revised at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 primarily to reflect curtailed production rates, capital cost reductions and the incorporation of reduced input costs (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). In October 2009, we announced initiatives to resume limited mining activities at the Miami mine in Arizona. This project, which was deferred in late 2008, will improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site. In addition, we are initiating activities to restart the Morenci mill, which was temporarily idled in February 2009, 82 Table of Contents to process available sulfide material currently being mined. Refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion of these development projects. Operating plans at our North America copper mines continue to be reviewed and additional adjustments will be made in response to changes in market conditions. In December 2009, we purchased property adjacent to our Sierrita operations, which includes the Twin Buttes copper mine, that ceased operations in 1994 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. 2009 2008 2007a Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,147 1,430 1,320 Sales, excluding purchases 1,187 1,434 1,332 Average realized price per pound $ 2.38 $ 3.07 $ 3.10 b Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productionc 25 30 30 100% Operating Data SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 589,400 1,095,200 798,200 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.29 0.22 0.23 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 859 943 940 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 169,900 249,600 223,800 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 0.33 0.40 0.35 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 86.0 82.9 84.5 Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper 364 599 501 Molybdenum 25 30 30 a. The North America copper mines operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Amount was $3.25 per pound of copper before charges for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program. c. Reflects by product molybdenum production from the North America copper mines. Sales of by product molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum division. 2009 Compared with 2008 Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines decreased to 1.2 billion pounds in 2009, compared with 1.4 billion pounds in 2008. Certain of our North America copper mines continue to operate at reduced rates in response to reduced demand for copper in the western world. Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines are expected to approximate 1.0 billion pounds in 2010 which reflects the impacts of reduced 2009 mining activities on 2010 leaching operations. By product molybdenum production from our North America copper mines is expected to approximate 30 million pounds in 2010. 2008 Compared with 2007 Copper sales from the North America mines increased to 1.4 billion pounds in 2008, compared with 1.3 billion pounds for the combined year 2007, primarily reflecting additional copper production from the Safford mine, which began production in December 2007 and was ramping up to design capacity during 2008 before operating plans were revised in fourth quarter 2008 to curtail production. 83 Table of Contents Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper and Molybdenum The following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Compared with 2008 2009 2008 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Molyb Product Molyb Method Copper denuma Method Copper denuma Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2.38 $ 2.38 $ 10.96 $ 3.07 $ 3.07 $ 30.25 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.25 1.15 5.67 1.88 1.63 12.67 By product creditsa (0.23 ) (0.64 ) Treatment charges 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09 Unit net cash costs 1.11 1.24 5.67 1.33 1.72 12.67 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.22 0.21 0.40 0.53 0.46 2.81 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.11 0.11 0.07 0.52 0.49 1.34 Total unit costs 1.44 1.56 6.14 2.38 2.67 16.82 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging 0.08 0.08 (0.05 ) (0.05 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.06 ) (0.06 ) (0.05 ) Gross profit per pound $ 0.94 $ 0.82 $ 4.82 $ 0.58 $ 0.29 $ 13.38 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,185 1,185 1,430 1,430 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)b 25 30 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Reflects molybdenum produced by the North America copper mines. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines decreased to $1.11 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.33 per pound in 2008, primarily reflecting a net decrease in site production and delivery costs ($0.63 per pound) associated with cost reduction and efficiency efforts, including the impact of lower operating rates and reduced input costs (principally for energy), partly offset by changes in inventory, which reflects the impact of historical higher cost production on inventory carrying values. The decrease in site production and delivery costs was partly offset by lower molybdenum credits ($0.41 per pound) primarily resulting from lower molybdenum prices and sales volumes. Our operating North America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and ore characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2009, unit net cash costs for the North America copper mines ranged from a net cost of $0.91 per pound to $1.66 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.11 per pound. Based on current operating plans and assuming achievement of current sales estimates and average prices of $12 per pound of molybdenum for 2010, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines would approximate $1.23 per pound of copper in 2010. Unit net cash costs for 2010 are expected to be higher, compared with 2009, primarily because of higher input costs and lower volumes, partly offset by higher molybdenum credits. Each $1 per pound change in the average molybdenum price during the year would have an approximate $0.02 per pound impact on the North America copper mines 2010 unit net cash costs. 84 Table of Contents The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the impact of the long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as LCM inventory adjustments and other unusual charges. Noncash and nonrecurring costs for 2008 include charges for LCM inventory adjustments, which totaled $661 million, or $0.46 per pound in 2008; there were no LCM copper inventory adjustments recorded at the North America mines in 2009. Revenue adjustments primarily reflect unrealized gains (losses) on copper derivative contracts entered into with our U.S. copper rod customers, which allow us to receive market prices in the month of shipment while the customer pays the fixed price they requested (refer to Note 16 for further discussion). 2008 Compared with 2007 2008 2007a By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Molyb Product Molyb Method Copper denumb Method Copper denumb Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3.07 $ 3.07 $ 30.25 $ 3.40 $ 3.40 $ 30.69 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.88 1.63 12.67 1.46 1.25 10.85 By product creditsb (0.64 ) (0.69 ) Treatment charges 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.10 Unit net cash costs 1.33 1.72 12.67 0.87 1.35 10.85 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.53 0.46 2.81 0.47 0.40 2.89 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.52 0.49 1.34 0.35 0.33 0.15 Total unit costs 2.38 2.67 16.82 1.69 2.08 13.89 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging (0.05 ) (0.05 ) (0.20 ) (0.20 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.06 ) (0.06 ) (0.05 ) (0.05 ) (0.05 ) (0.03 ) Gross profit per pound $ 0.58 $ 0.29 $ 13.38 $ 1.46 $ 1.07 $ 16.77 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,430 1,430 1,038 1,038 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)c 30 23 a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. b. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. c. Reflects molybdenum produced by the North America copper mines. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines increased to $1.33 per pound of copper in 2008, compared with $0.87 per pound of copper for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, primarily reflecting production cost increases associated with higher mining costs and milling rates, higher energy costs and costs of other consumables and higher costs associated with Safford as the mine ramped up to full production rates. The increase in noncash and nonrecurring costs for 2008 primarily reflected charges for LCM inventory adjustments in 2008 totaling $661 million ($0.46 per pound), partly offset by lower purchase accounting impacts related to increased carrying values of acquired inventory, which totaled $24 million ($0.02 per pound) in 2008 and $344 million ($0.33 per pound) in 2007. Revenue adjustments primarily reflect unrealized losses on copper derivative contracts entered into with our U.S. copper rod customers. In 2007, revenue adjustments also reflected mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program totaling $175 million ($0.17 per pound). South America Copper Mines We have four operating copper mines in South America Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile. We own a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an 80 percent interest in both Candelaria and Ojos del Salado and a 51 percent interest in El Abra. The South America copper mines include open pit and underground mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and SX/EW operations. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum concentrates as a 85 Table of Contents by product, and the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver as by products. Production from our South America copper mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under long term contracts. Beginning in 2008, our South America copper mines began selling a portion of their copper concentrate and cathode inventories to Atlantic Copper, an affiliated smelter. Refer to Note 20 for further discussion of our reportable segment in the South America copper mines division. In response to weak market conditions, operating plans at our South America copper mines were revised at the end of 2008 primarily to reflect the incorporation of reduced input costs and a reduction in capital spending plans. We also temporarily curtailed the molybdenum circuit at Cerro Verde (which resumed in September 2009). In October 2009, we announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities, including development of sulfide ores at El Abra and an expansion of the Cerro Verde concentrator (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). Refer to Note 14 for information on contingencies at our South America copper mines. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the South America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The below operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. 2009 2008 2007a Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,390 1,506 1,413 Sales 1,394 1,521 1,399 Average realized price per pound $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 3.25 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 92 114 116 Sales 90 116 114 Average realized price per ounce $ 982 $ 853 $ 683 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productionb 2 3 1 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 258,200 279,700 289,100 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.45 0.45 0.43 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 565 560 569 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 181,300 181,400 167,900 Average ore grade:c Copper (percent) 0.66 0.75 0.74 Molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 88.9 89.2 87.1 Production: Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 825 946 844 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) 92 114 116 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) 2 3 1 a. The South America copper mines operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Reflects by product molybdenum production from our Cerro Verde copper mine. Sales of by product molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum segment. c. Average ore grades of gold produced at our South America mines rounds to less than 0.001 grams per metric ton. 2009 Compared with 2008 Copper sales volumes from the South America copper mines decreased to 1.4 billion pounds in 2009, compared with 1.5 billion for the year 2008, primarily reflecting lower ore grades at Candelaria and downtime for mill maintenance at Cerro Verde. Consolidated sales volumes from our South America copper mines are expected to 86 Table of Contents approximate 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold in 2010. Projected copper sales volumes for 2010 are lower than 2009 primarily because of the impact of anticipated lower ore grades at El Abra. 2008 Compared with 2007 Copper sales volumes from the South America copper mines increased to 1.5 billion pounds in 2008, compared with 1.4 billion pounds for the combined year 2007, primarily reflecting higher production from the Cerro Verde concentrator, which reached design capacity in mid 2007. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper The following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at the South America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. The below tables reflect unit net cash costs per pound of copper under the by product and co product methods as the South America copper mines also had small amounts of molybdenum, gold and silver sales. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Compared with 2008 2009 2008 By Product Co Product By Product Co Product Method Method Method Method Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2.70 $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 2.57 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.08 1.02 1.13 1.07 By product credits (0.11 ) (0.13 ) Treatment charges 0.15 0.15 0.14 0.14 Unit net cash costs 1.12 1.17 1.14 1.21 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.20 0.19 0.33 0.32 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.02 0.02 0.07 0.06 Total unit costs 1.34 1.38 1.54 1.59 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.08 0.08 0.15 0.15 Other non inventoriable costs (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Gross profit per pound $ 1.42 $ 1.38 $ 1.16 $ 1.11 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,394 1,394 1,521 1,521 Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America copper mines decreased to $1.12 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.14 per pound in 2008, primarily reflecting lower site production and delivery costs ($0.05 per pound) associated with lower input costs (primarily for energy). Our South America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and ore characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2009, unit net cash costs for the South America copper mines ranged from $1.01 per pound to $1.24 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.12 per pound. Assuming achievement of current sales volumes estimates and estimates for commodity based inputs, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America copper mines would approximate $1.20 per pound of copper in 2010. Unit net cash costs for 2010 are expected to be higher, than in 2009, primarily because of lower volumes and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, partly offset by lower sulphuric acid costs. 87 Table of Contents The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the impact of the long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these impairment charges). 2008 Compared with 2007 2008 2007a By Product Co Product By Product Co Product Method Method Method Method Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2.57 $ 2.57 $ 3.30 $ 3.30 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.13 1.07 0.92 0.88 By product credits (0.13 ) (0.09 ) Treatment charges 0.14 0.14 0.20 0.20 Unit net cash costs 1.14 1.21 1.03 1.08 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.33 0.32 0.32 0.32 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.07 0.06 0.14 0.14 Total unit costs 1.54 1.59 1.49 1.54 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.15 0.15 0.06 0.06 Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Gross profit per pound $ 1.16 $ 1.11 $ 1.85 $ 1.80 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,521 1,521 1,177 1,177 a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) increased to $1.14 per pound of copper in 2008, compared with $1.03 per pound for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, reflecting production cost increases associated with higher mining costs and milling rates and higher energy, sulphuric acid and other commodity based input costs. These increases were partly offset by higher volumes, higher by product credits and lower treatment charges during 2008. The change in noncash and nonrecurring costs for 2008 primarily reflects lower purchase accounting impacts related to increased carrying values of acquired inventory, which totaled $46 million ($0.03 per pound) in 2008 and $169 million ($0.14 per pound) in 2007. Indonesia Mining Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg minerals district. We own 90.64 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, including 9.36 percent owned through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama. PT Freeport Indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver. Substantially all of PT Freeport Indonesias copper concentrates are sold under long term contracts, approximately one half of its concentrate production is sold to affiliated smelters, Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting (PT Freeport Indonesias 25 percent owned copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia refer to Note 3 for further discussion), and the remainder to other customers. PT Freeport Indonesia operates under an agreement, called a Contract of Work, with the Government of Indonesia that allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in a 24,700 acre area called Block A located in Papua, Indonesia (refer to Note 15 for further discussion). Under the Contract of Work, PT Freeport Indonesia also conducts exploration activities in an approximate 500,000 acre area called Block B in Papua. All of PT Freeport Indonesias proven and probable mineral reserves and current mining operations, including the Grasberg minerals district, are located in Block A. We have established certain unincorporated joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc (Rio Tinto), an international mining company with headquarters in London, England. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021 in Block A of PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work, and, after 2021, a 40 percent interest in all production from Block A. Refer to Note 3 for further discussion of joint ventures with Rio Tinto. 88 Table of Contents As originally reported in January 2006, we received and responded to requests for U.S. governmental authorities related to PT Freeport Indonesias support of Indonesian security institutions. In May 2009, we were notified by the SEC that the U.S. governments investigation has been completed and no action has been recommended. Since July 2009, there have been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at the Grasberg mining complex, including an incident in January 2010. In connection with these incidents, there have been three fatalities (including a PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. See Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009, for further discussion of these matters. Refer to Note 14 for information on contingencies at our Indonesia mining operations. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: 2009 2008 2007 Consolidated Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,412 1,094 1,151 Sales 1,400 1,111 1,131 Average realized price per pound $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 3.32 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 2,568 1,163 2,198 Sales 2,543 1,182 2,185 Average realized price per ounce $ 994 $ 861 $ 681 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day): Grasberg open pita 166,300 129,800 159,100 Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground minea 72,000 63,100 53,500 Total 238,300 192,900 212,600 Average ore grade: Copper (percent) 0.98 0.83 0.82 Gold (grams per metric ton) 1.30 0.66 1.24 Recovery rates (percent): Copper 90.6 90.1 90.5 Gold 83.7 79.9 86.2 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 1,641 1,109 1,211 Gold (thousands of ounces) 2,984 1,163 2,608 a. Amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at PT Freeport Indonesias mill facilities from each producing mine. 2009 Compared with 2008 At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold. PT Freeport Indonesias share of sales increased to 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.5 million ounces of gold in 2009, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold in 2008, as a result of mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2009, including accelerated mining of a higher grade section that was previously scheduled to be mined in future periods. PT Freeport Indonesias sales for 2010 are expected to approximate 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.7 million ounces of gold, which is lower than 2009 volumes, as a result of transitioning to a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit in 2010. Anticipated changes in ore grades throughout the year are expected to result in variability in quarterly volumes. Approximately 60 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias copper and gold production is expected in the second half of 2010. 89 Table of Contents 2008 Compared with 2007 PT Freeport Indonesias share of sales totaled 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold in 2008, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 2.2 million ounces of gold in 2007. Lower gold sales volumes in 2008 resulted from mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first nine months of 2008. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper/per Ounce of Gold The following tables summarize the unit net cash (credits) costs and gross profit per pound of copper and per ounce of gold at our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Refer to Production Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Compared with 2008 2009 2008 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Product Method Copper Gold Method Copper Gold Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 2.65 $ 2.65 $ 993.72 $ 2.36 $ 2.36 $ 861.43 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.05 0.62 231.57 1.59 1.13 412.72 Gold and silver credits (1.86 ) (0.97 ) Treatment charges 0.22 0.13 49.18 0.24 0.17 62.69 Royalty on metals 0.10 0.06 23.18 0.10 0.07 26.50 Unit net cash (credits) costs (0.49 ) 0.81 303.93 0.96 1.37 501.91 Depreciation and amortization 0.20 0.11 43.36 0.20 0.14 52.09 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.03 0.02 5.93 0.03 0.02 7.18 Total unit (credits) costs (0.26 ) 0.94 353.22 1.19 1.53 561.18 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.04 0.04 2.12 0.09 0.09 5.86 PT Smelting intercompany profit (0.04 ) (0.02 ) (8.45 ) 0.01 0.01 4.18 Gross profit per pound/ounce $ 2.91 $ 1.73 $ 634.17 $ 1.27 $ 0.93 $ 310.29 Consolidated sales Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,400 1,400 1,111 1,111 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) 2,543 1,182 Because of the fixed nature of a large portion of PT Freeport Indonesias costs, unit costs vary significantly from period to period depending on volumes of copper and gold sold during the period. Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) decreased to a net credit of $0.49 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with a net cost of $0.96 per pound in 2008, reflecting higher gold and silver credits ($0.89 per pound) resulting from higher gold sales volumes and prices in 2009, and lower site production and delivery costs ($0.54 per pound) primarily associated with higher copper sales volumes and lower commodity based input costs. Treatment charges vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper, and royalties vary with the volume of metals sold and the prices of copper and gold. Because the majority of PT Freeport Indonesias costs are fixed, unit costs vary with volumes sold and the price of gold. Assuming achievement of current sales volume estimates, average gold prices of $1,100 per ounce in 2010, and estimates for energy costs, currency exchange rates and other cost factors, we estimate that average unit net cash costs for PT Freeport Indonesia (net of gold and silver credits) would approximate $0.21 per pound of copper in 2010. Unit net cash costs for 2010 are expected to be higher, compared with 2009, primarily because of lower 90 Table of Contents projected sales volumes and higher commodity based input costs. Each $50 per ounce change in average gold prices during the year would have an approximate $0.07 per pound impact on PT Freeport Indonesias 2010 unit net cash costs. 2008 Compared with 2007 2008 2007 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Product Method Copper Gold Method Copper Gold Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 2.36 $ 2.36 $ 861.43 $ 3.32 $ 3.32 $ 680.74 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.59 1.13 412.72 1.19 0.85 172.23 Gold and silver credits (0.97 ) (1.36 ) Treatment charges 0.24 0.17 62.69 0.34 0.24 49.45 Royalty on metals 0.10 0.07 26.50 0.12 0.08 17.05 Unit net cash costs 0.96 1.37 501.91 0.29 1.17 238.73 Depreciation and amortization 0.20 0.14 52.09 0.17 0.12 25.54 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.03 0.02 7.18 0.04 0.03 5.90 Total unit costs 1.19 1.53 561.18 0.50 1.32 270.17 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.09 0.09 5.86 0.03 0.03 1.07 PT Smelting intercompany profit 0.01 0.01 4.18 0.01 0.01 1.71 Gross profit per pound/ounce $ 1.27 $ 0.93 $ 310.29 $ 2.86 $ 2.04 $ 413.35 Consolidated sales Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,111 1,111 1,131 1,131 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,182 2,185 Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) increased to $0.96 per pound of copper in 2008, compared with $0.29 per pound in 2007, reflecting lower gold and silver credits associated with lower gold volumes in 2008, higher input costs, including higher mining rates and energy costs, and also reflected the impact of changes in cost sharing with our joint venture partner. Partly offsetting these increases were lower treatment charges, which vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper. Africa Mining Africa mining includes the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the DRC. We own an effective 57.75 percent interest in Tenke and are the operator of the project. The Tenke mine includes open pit mining, leaching and SX/EW operations. Copper production from the Tenke mine is sold as copper cathode. In addition to copper, the Tenke mine produces cobalt hydroxide. Construction activities for the initial development project are complete. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and Tenke achieved targeted copper production rates in September 2009. Start up and quality issues continue to be addressed in the cobalt circuit and sustained targeted production rates are expected to be reached during 2010. Current operations are designed to produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year. Refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion of the Tenke Fungurume project. We are continuing to work cooperatively with the DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review but cannot predict the timing or the outcome of this process. The contract review process has not affected our development schedule and we are continuing to operate pursuant to the terms of our contract. We believe that the contract is fair and equitable, complies with Congolese law and is enforceable without modifications. Refer to Note 15 for further discussion. See Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009, for further discussion of these matters. 91 Table of Contents Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Africa mining operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. 2009a Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 154 Sales 130 Average realized price per pound $ 2.85 Ore milled (metric tons per day) 7,300 Average ore grade (percent) 3.69 Copper recovery rate (percent) 92.1 a. Results for 2009 represent mining operations which began production in March 2009. Tenkes sales volumes are expected to approximate 240 million pounds of copper and over 20 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2010. The high grades of copper and cobalt in the ore at the Tenke mine are expected to result in an attractive cost structure once the full operation reaches design capacity. Upon reaching design capacity in the copper and cobalt circuits and assuming average cobalt prices of $10 per pound, average unit net cash costs for Tenke are targeted to be $0.50 per pound of copper. Each $2 per pound change in average cobalt prices would have an approximate $0.12 per pound impact on Tenkes unit net cash costs. We will incorporate Tenke in our consolidated unit net cash cost disclosure upon completion of ramp up activities, expected during 2010. Pursuant to our agreement with Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin), we were responsible for funding our share (70 percent) of project development costs and 100 percent of certain cost overruns on the initial Tenke Fungurume project. We and Lundin will be repaid our advances prior to distributions to shareholders of Tenke Fungurume. Accordingly, we will receive a disproportionate share of cash flow until the cost overrun financing and advances are repaid. Molybdenum Our Molybdenum operation is an integrated producer of molybdenum, with mining, sulfide ore concentrating, roasting and processing facilities that produce high purity, molybdenum based chemicals, molybdenum metal powder and metallurgical products, which are sold to customers around the world, and includes the wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities. The Henderson underground mine produces high purity, chemical grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value added molybdenum chemical products. The Molybdenum operation also includes the wholly owned Climax molybdenum mine in Colorado, which has been on care and maintenance status since 1995; a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from our Henderson mine and from our North and South America copper mines that produce molybdenum as a by product; and related conversion facilities that, at times, roast and or process material on a toll basis. Toll arrangements require the tolling customer to deliver appropriate molybdenum bearing material to our facilities for processing into a product that is returned to the customer, who pays us for processing their material into the specified products. In response to market conditions during fourth quarter 2008, we suspended construction activities associated with the project to restart the Climax molybdenum mine, which would have an annual capacity of 30 million pounds with expansion options. We will continue to monitor market conditions to determine timing for restarting construction of this project; once a decision is made to resume construction activities, the project could be completed within 18 months. Estimated remaining costs for the project approximate $350 million. 92 Table of Contents Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the Molybdenum operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. 2009 2008 2007a Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productionb 27 40 39 Sales, excluding purchasesc 58 71 69 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day) 14,900 24,100 24,000 Average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.25 0.23 0.23 Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 27 40 39 a. The Molybdenum operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Reflects production at the Henderson molybdenum mine. c. Includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. Beginning in fourth quarter 2008, molybdenum markets were significantly affected by the downturn in economic conditions, which required us to operate the Henderson molybdenum mine at reduced rates during 2009. However, conditions have begun to improve and as a result Henderson was operating at 80 percent capacity at December 31, 2009, compared with 60 percent capacity during most of 2009. Molybdenum sales volumes decreased to 58 million pounds in 2009, compared with 71 million pounds in 2008, because of lower demand. For 2010, molybdenum sales volumes are expected to approximate 60 million pounds. We will continue to review operating plans and adjust operating rates to reflect market conditions. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of molybdenum is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Molybdenum The following tables summarize the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of molybdenum at our Henderson molybdenum mine for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 2008 2007a Revenues $ 11.69 $ 29.27 $ 27.12 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 5.44 5.36 4.37 Unit net cash costs 5.44 5.36 4.37 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.98 4.25 2.55 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.03 0.18 b 0.05 Total unit costs 6.45 9.79 6.97 Gross profit per poundc $ 5.24 $ 19.48 $ 20.15 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)d 27 40 31 93 Table of Contents a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. b. Includes charges of $0.03 per pound in 2008 associated with LCM inventory adjustments. c. Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum segment includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. d. Reflects molybdenum produced by the Henderson molybdenum mine. Hendersons unit net cash costs were $5.44 per pound of molybdenum in 2009, $5.36 per pound in 2008 and $4.37 per pound in 2007. Hendersons unit net cash costs were unfavorably impacted in 2009 by lower production volumes, partly offset by the impact of cost reduction efforts. Higher costs in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected higher input costs, including outside services, supplies and energy. Assuming achievement of current 2010 sales estimates, we estimate that the 2010 average unit net cash costs for Henderson would approximate $5.50 per pound of molybdenum. The decrease in Hendersons depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, reflects the impact of long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). The increase in Hendersons depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected changes in purchase accounting impacts associated with adjustments to the estimated fair values of acquired property, plant and equipment, which were based on preliminary estimates in 2007 and finalized in first quarter 2008. Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned subsidiary located in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes. PT Freeport Indonesia sells copper concentrate and the South America copper mines sell copper concentrate and copper cathode to Atlantic Copper. Through downstream integration, we are assured placement of a significant portion of our concentrate production. During 2009, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 35 percent of its concentrate requirements from PT Freeport Indonesia and approximately 25 percent from our South America mines. Smelting and refining charges consist of a base rate and, in certain contracts, price participation based on copper prices. Treatment charges for smelting and refining copper concentrates represent a cost to PT Freeport Indonesia and our South America copper mines and income to Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting, our 25 percent owned smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. Thus, higher treatment and refining charges benefit our smelter operations at Atlantic Copper and adversely affect our mining operations in Indonesia and South America. Our North America copper mines are not significantly affected by changes in treatment and refining charges because these operations are fully integrated with our Miami smelter located in Arizona. Atlantic Copper had an operating loss of $56 million in 2009 compared to operating income of $10 million in 2008 and $3 million in 2007. The decrease in Atlantic Coppers operating results during 2009 primarily reflected lower sulphuric acid revenues resulting from lower prices. We defer recognizing profits on PT Freeport Indonesias and our South America copper mines sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias sales to PT Smelting until final sales to third parties occur. Changes in these net deferrals resulted in net reductions to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders totaling $109 million ($0.23 per share) in 2009, compared with net additions of $65 million ($0.17 per share) in 2008 and $8 million ($0.02 per share) in 2007. At December 31, 2009, our net deferred profits on PT Freeport Indonesias and the South America copper mines inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income after taxes and noncontrolling interests totaled $137 million. CURRENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS We have several projects and potential opportunities to expand our production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large scale ore bodies. During fourth quarter 2008, we deferred several project development activities because of the downturn in global economic conditions. Major development projects for 2009 consisted of underground development in the Grasberg minerals district and the Tenke Fungurume project (for which 94 Table of Contents construction activities on the initial project are complete). During fourth quarter 2009, we announced that we are resuming certain project development activities. Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions. North America Copper Mines Miami Restart. During fourth quarter 2009, we initiated plans to restart limited mining activities at the Miami copper mine in Arizona, which will improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site. During the approximate five year mine life, we expect to ramp up production to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by the second half of 2011. The capital investment for this project is expected to approximate $40 million, which is lower that the initial estimate of $100 million because we intend to transfer existing mining equipment from other North America sites, rather than purchasing new equipment. Morenci Mill Restart. We are initiating activities to restart the Morenci mill in Arizona, which was temporarily idled in February 2009 in response to market conditions, to process available sulfide material currently being mined. Copper concentrate production is expected to begin in second quarter 2010, with mill throughput initially expected to approximate 30,000 metric tons per day, or approximately 60 percent of total mill capacity. Twin Buttes. In December 2009, we purchased property adjacent to our Sierrita operations primarily from Twin Buttes Properties, Inc. for $200 million. The property includes the Twin Buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994 and contains mineralized material of approximately 0.7 billion metric tons with average grades of 0.43 percent for copper and 0.024 percent for molybdenum. The purchase provides significant synergies in the Sierrita district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for Sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. We plan to conduct studies to incorporate the Twin Buttes resources in our future plans to determine the optimum development plans for the district. South America Copper Mines El Abra Sulfide Ore. We have resumed construction activities associated with the development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra that will extend the mine life by over ten years. Production from the sulfide ore, which will ramp up to approximately 300 million pounds of copper per year, is expected to begin in 2012 and will replace the current oxide ore copper production that is expected to decline over the next several years. The project will use a portion of the existing facilities to process the additional sulfide ore. The total aggregate capital investment for this project (which has been updated to incorporate recent foreign currency exchange rates and other cost increases) is expected to total $700 million through 2015, of which approximately $500 million is for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in 2012. Aggregate project costs of $75 million have been incurred as of December 31, 2009 (most of which were incurred prior to the end of 2008). Cerro Verde Expansion. We have commenced a project to optimize throughput at the existing Cerro Verde concentrator. This project, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2010, is designed to add 30 million pounds of additional copper production per year by increasing mill throughput from 108,000 metric tons of ore per day to 120,000 metric tons of ore per day. The aggregate capital investment for this project is expected to total approximately $50 million. We continue to study the potential for a major expansion at Cerro Verde. Indonesia We have several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district, including development of the large scale, high grade underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit. In addition, we have completed the feasibility study for the Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ). Based on current estimates, we expect aggregate expenditures for underground mine development in the Grasberg minerals district to average approximately $450 million annually during the next 15 years. These costs will be shared with Rio Tinto in accordance with our joint venture agreement. Considering the long term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates. In addition to the mine development costs above, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once Grasberg open pit operations cease. Substantially all of these expenditures will be made between 2017 and 2029. We continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our reserves. 95 Table of Contents The following discussion provides additional information on these current projects, including the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, the Grasberg Block Cave and Big Gossan underground mines, a further expansion of the DOZ underground mine and development of the DMLZ ore body. Common Infrastructure and Grasberg Block Cave. In 2004, PT Freeport Indonesia commenced its Common Infrastructure project to provide access to its large undeveloped underground ore bodies located in the Grasberg minerals district through a tunnel system located approximately 400 meters deeper than its existing underground tunnel system. In addition to providing access to our underground ore bodies, the tunnel system will enable PT Freeport Indonesia to conduct future exploration in prospective areas associated with currently identified ore bodies. The tunnel system has reached the Big Gossan terminal and we are proceeding with development of the lower Big Gossan infrastructure. We have also advanced development of the Grasberg spur and have completed the tunneling required to reach the Grasberg underground ore body. During 2009, we continued development of the Grasberg Block Cave terminal infrastructure and mine access. In 2008, we completed the feasibility study for the development of the Grasberg Block Cave underground mine, which accounts for over one third of our reserves in Indonesia. Production at the Grasberg Block Cave mine is currently scheduled to commence at the end of mining the Grasberg open pit, which is expected to continue until mid 2016. The timing of the underground Grasberg Block Cave mine development will continue to be assessed. Based on the 2008 feasibility study, aggregate mine development capital for the Grasberg Block Cave mine and associated Common Infrastructure is expected to approximate $3.6 billion to be incurred between 2008 and 2021, with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $3.4 billion. These estimates are higher than the aggregate $3.1 billion previously reported as certain costs previously considered as operating in the feasibility study were determined to be capital costs to conform with our current accounting policies for underground mines. Aggregate project costs totaling $127 million have been incurred through December 31, 2009, of which $83 million was incurred during 2009. Targeted production rates once the Grasberg Block Cave mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 150,000 metric tons of ore per day. Big Gossan. The Big Gossan underground mine is a high grade deposit located near PT Freeport Indonesias existing milling complex. The Big Gossan mine is being developed as an open stope mine with backfill consisting of mill tailings and cement, an established mining methodology expected to be higher cost than the block cave method used at the DOZ mine. Production is designed to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by late 2012 (equal to average annual aggregate incremental production of 125 million pounds of copper and 65,000 ounces of gold, with PT Freeport Indonesia receiving 60 percent of these amounts). The aggregate capital investment for this project is currently estimated at approximately $480 million, of which $377 million has been incurred through December 31, 2009, including $41 million during 2009. DOZ Expansion. In mid 2007, PT Freeport Indonesia completed an expansion of the DOZ underground operation to allow a sustained rate of 50,000 metric tons of ore per day. PT Freeport Indonesias further expansion of the DOZ mine to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day is substantially complete. The capital cost for this expansion approximated $100 million, with PT Freeport Indonesias 60 percent share totaling approximately $60 million. The success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the worlds largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of PT Freeport Indonesias large scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. DMLZ. The DMLZ ore body lies below the DOZ mine at the 2,590 meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the Ertsberg East Skarn system and neighboring Ertsberg porphyry. The DMLZ feasibility study was completed in fourth quarter 2009. We plan to mine the ore body using a block cave method with production beginning in 2020, near completion of mining at the DOZ. Drilling efforts continue to determine the extent of this ore body. We continue to develop the Common Infrastructure project and tunnels from mill level. In 2009, we completed a portion of the spur to the DMLZ mine and reached the edge of the DMLZ terminal. Aggregate mine development capital costs for the DMLZ are expected to approximate $2.1 billion with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $1.2 billion, which are expected to be incurred from 2009 to 2020. Aggregate project costs totaling $25 million have been incurred through December 31, 2009. Targeted production rates once the DMLZ mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. 96 Table of Contents Africa Mining Tenke Fungurume. Construction activities for the approximate $2 billion initial project are complete. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and achieved targeted copper production rates in September 2009. Start up and quality issues continue to be addressed in the cobalt circuit and sustained targeted production rates are expected to be reached during 2010. Current operations are designed to produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year. The initial Tenke Fungurume project was designed and constructed in a world class fashion, using modern technology and following international standards for environmental management, occupational safety and social responsibility. The facilities include impermeable lined tailing storage and waste water treatment ponds, and we have made significant investments in infrastructure in the region, including a national road and improvements in power generation and transmission systems. Our social programs include local micro enterprise businesses, agricultural capacity building initiatives, malaria abatement, potable drinking water wells, new medical facilities and several new schools. The project will continue to provide important benefits to the Congolese through employment and the provision of local services and to the DRC government through substantial tax, royalty and dividend payments. We continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of this highly prospective district. These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion. In our recoverable proven and probable reserve estimates for 2009, we were successful in adding 2.6 billion pounds of copper reserves and 0.08 billion pounds of cobalt reserves. Recoverable proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2009, approximate 135 million metric tons of ore with average grades of 3.13 percent for copper and 0.33 percent for cobalt, which equates to recoverable reserves of 8.4 billion pounds of copper and 0.78 billion pounds of cobalt. We commenced a feasibility study in fourth quarter 2009 to evaluate a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and potentially increasing capacity by approximately 50 percent. The feasibility study is expected to be completed by mid year 2010. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our production levels, production costs, cash payments for income taxes and interest, other working capital changes and other factors. As a result of weak economic conditions, we revised our operating plans at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 to protect liquidity while preserving our large mineral resources and growth options for the longer term (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). However, strong operating performance and rising copper prices have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position during 2009, allowing us to manage volatile conditions effectively, reduce debt and reinstate cash dividends to shareholders, while maintaining our future growth opportunities. In addition, we have announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). We view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirement for copper in the worlds economy and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. Based on current mine plans and subject to future copper, gold and molybdenum prices, we expect estimated 2010 operating cash flows to be greater than our budgeted capital expenditures, expected debt payments, dividends, noncontrolling interest distributions and other cash requirements. Cash and Cash Equivalents At December 31, 2009, we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $2.7 billion. The following table reflects the U.S. and international components of consolidated cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions): 2009 2008 Cash at domestic companiesa $ 1,522 $ 95 Cash at international operations 1,134 777 Total consolidated cash and cash equivalents 2,656 872 Less: Noncontrolling interests share (300 ) (267 ) Cash, net of noncontrolling interests share 2,356 605 Less: Withholding taxes and other (171 ) (151 ) Net cash available to FCX $ 2,185 $ 454 97 Table of Contents a. Includes cash at our parent company and North America operations. Operating Activities During 2009, we generated operating cash flows totaling $4.4 billion, net of $770 million used for working capital requirements, which included approximately $600 million related to settlement of final pricing with customers on 2008 provisionally priced copper sales. Operating cash flows in 2008 totaled $3.4 billion, net of $965 million used for working capital requirements, which included $598 million to settle the 2007 copper price protection program contract, and operating cash flows in 2007 totaled $6.2 billion, including $1.1 billion from working capital sources. Operating cash flows for 2009 were higher than in 2008 primarily because of lower operating costs and higher gold prices and sales volumes. Operating cash flows for 2008 were lower than in 2007 primarily because of higher operating costs and higher working capital requirements. Consolidated revenues, operating cash flows and net income vary significantly with fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum, sales volumes and other factors. Refer to Overview and Outlook for further discussion of projected 2010 operating cash flows. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $1.6 billion in 2009 (including $1.0 billion for major projects and a property acquisition), $2.7 billion in 2008 (including $1.6 billion for major projects) and $1.8 billion in 2007 (including $0.8 billion for major projects). The decrease in capital expenditures in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the effects of the decision to defer capital spending for several projects, lower capital spending for the initial Tenke Fungurume development project (for which construction activities are complete) and reduced spending for sustaining capital. The increase in capital expenditures in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected higher costs associated with our major development projects. During fourth quarter 2009, we announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion of these projects). Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors. Refer to Overview and Outlook for further discussion of projected 2010 capital expenditures. Other Investing Activities. During 2008, our global reclamation and remediation trusts decreased by $430 million resulting primarily from reimbursement of previously incurred costs for reclamation and environmental activities. On March 19, 2007, we issued 136.9 million shares of common stock and paid $13.9 billion (net of cash acquired) to acquire Phelps Dodge (refer to Note 18 for further discussion). During 2007, we received net proceeds of $597 million associated with the sale of Phelps Dodge International Corporation (PDIC) (refer to Note 19 for further discussion), and also received proceeds totaling $260 million primarily related to sales of marketable securities. Financing Activities Equity and Debt Transactions. In February 2009, we completed a public offering of 26.8 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $28.00 per share, which generated gross proceeds of $750 million (net proceeds of approximately $740 million). Net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facilities, working capital and capital expenditures. In December 2008, through privately negotiated transactions, we induced conversion of 0.3 million shares of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock into 5.8 million shares of FCX common stock. To induce conversion of these shares, we issued to the holders an additional 1.0 million shares of FCX common stock valued at $22 million. In September 2009, we called for the redemption of the remaining 0.8 million shares of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, which converted into 17.9 million shares of FCX common stock; the remaining 1,025 shares were redeemed for approximately $1 million in cash. Refer to Note 12 for further discussion of these transactions. In July 2008, our Board of Directors (the Board) approved an increase in the open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. During third quarter 2008, we purchased 6.3 million shares of our common stock for $500 million ($79.15 per share average) under this program; however, because of financial market turmoil and the declines in copper and molybdenum prices, in September 2008, we suspended purchases of our 98 Table of Contents common stock under the program. There are 23.7 million shares remaining under this program, and the timing of future purchases of our common stock is dependent on many factors, including our operating results; cash flows and financial position; copper, gold and molybdenum prices; the price of our common shares; and general economic and market conditions. At December 31, 2009, we had 430 million common shares outstanding; assuming conversion of our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which automatically converts on May 1, 2010, we would have between 469 and 477 million common shares outstanding, depending on the applicable average market price of our common stock (refer to Note 12 for further discussion). Total debt approximated $6.3 billion at December 31, 2009, $7.4 billion at December 31, 2008, and $7.2 billion at December 31, 2007. We have revolving credit facilities available through March 2012, which are composed of (i) a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility available to FCX and (ii) a $0.5 billion revolving credit facility available to both FCX and PT Freeport Indonesia. Interest on the revolving credit facilities accrues at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.00 percent, subject to an increase or decrease in the interest rate margin based on the credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investor Services. At December 31, 2009, we had no borrowings and $39 million of letters of credit issued under the facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ($961 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). The revolving credit facilities contain restrictions on the amount available for dividend payments, purchases of our common stock and certain debt prepayments (refer to Note 10 for further discussion). However, these restrictions do not apply as long as availability under the revolvers plus domestic cash exceeds $750 million. At December 31, 2009, we had availability under the revolvers plus available domestic cash (as defined by the revolving credit facility) totaling approximately $3.4 billion. In addition, the indenture governing our senior notes used to finance the Phelps Dodge acquisition contains restrictions on incurring debt, making restricted payments and selling assets (refer to Note 10 for further discussion). In April 2008, Standard & Poors Rating Services and Fitch Ratings raised our corporate credit rating and the ratings on our unsecured debt to BBB (investment grade). As a result of the upgrade of our unsecured debt to investment grade, these covenants are currently suspended. However, to the extent the rating is downgraded below investment grade, the covenants would again become effective. During 2009, we repaid $1.0 billion in debt, including $727 million of senior debt at a cost of $768 million, consisting of the August 2009 redemption of 6% Senior Notes and the open market purchases of our 8.25% Senior Notes, our 8.375% Senior Notes and our 8% Senior Notes (refer to Note 10 for further discussion of these transactions). These transactions will result in annual interest cost savings of approximately $56 million. Losses on early extinguishment of debt totaled $48 million ($43 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.09 per share) for 2009. From January 1, 2010, through February 25, 2010, we repaid an additional $269 million of our 8.25% Senior Notes and our 8.375% Senior Notes through open market purchases at a cost of $293 million. Losses on early extinguishment of debt are expected to total $27 million in first quarter 2010 for these 2010 transactions. In February 2008, we purchased, in an open market transaction, $33 million of our 9% Senior Notes for $46 million. As shown in the summary table below, we have no significant debt maturities in the near term; however, we may consider additional opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities or redeem our currently redeemable Senior Floating Rate Notes (in millions). 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Senior notes $ $ 89 $ $ $ $ 6,064 Equipment loans and other 16 4 14 1 1 157 $ 16 $ 93 $ 14 $ 1 $ 1 $ 6,221 March 2007 Acquisition of Phelps Dodge. In connection with financing the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, we used $2.5 billion of available cash (including acquired cash) and funded the remainder with term loan borrowings totaling $10.0 billion under a new $11.5 billion senior credit facility and from the offering of $6.0 billion in senior notes (which generated net proceeds of $5.9 billion). Following the close of the acquisition of Phelps Dodge and in 99 Table of Contents accordance with our plan to reduce debt, during 2007, we fully repaid the $10.0 billion in term loans (including incremental borrowings and payments of approximately $2.5 billion) using a combination of equity proceeds and internally generated cash flows. The equity transactions included the sale of 47.15 million shares of common stock at $61.25 per share for net proceeds of $2.8 billion and 28.75 million shares of 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock for net proceeds of $2.8 billion. In addition to repaying the term loans, we had net repayments of other debt totaling $325 million in 2007. Cash Dividends. The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Board. The amount of our cash dividend on our common stock is dependent upon our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. In December 2007, the Board increased the annual cash dividend on our common stock from $1.25 per share to $1.75 per share, and again in July 2008 to $2.00 per share. Because of the deterioration in copper and molybdenum prices and in general economic conditions, in December 2008, the Board suspended the cash dividend on our common stock; accordingly, there were no common stock dividends paid in 2009, compared with $693 million ($1.8125 per share) in 2008 and $421 million ($1.25 per share) in 2007. In October 2009, the Board reinstated an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $0.60 per share. On December 30, 2009, FCX declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, which was paid on February 1, 2010, to common shareholders of record at the close of business on January 15, 2010. The Board will continue to review our financial policy on an ongoing basis. Preferred stock dividends paid totaled $229 million in 2009, $255 million in 2008 and $175 million in 2007 representing dividends on our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock and 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (refer to Note 12 for further discussion). On December 30, 2009, FCX declared a regular quarterly dividend of $1.6785 per share on our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which was paid on February 1, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on January 15, 2010. On May 1, 2010, our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will automatically convert into between 39 million and 47 million shares of FCX common stock, depending on the applicable average market price of our common stock (refer to Note 12 for further discussion). Cash dividends and distributions paid to noncontrolling interests totaled $535 million in 2009, $730 million in 2008 and $967 million in 2007, reflecting dividends and distributions paid to the noncontrolling interest owners of PT Freeport Indonesia and our South America copper mines. OTHER CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS In addition to debt maturities, we have other contractual obligations, which we expect to fund with projected operating cash flows, availability under our revolving credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. A summary of these various obligations at December 31, 2009, follows (in millions): 2011 to 2013 to Total 2010 2012 2014 Thereafter Scheduled interest payment obligationsa $ 3,669 $ 471 $ 931 $ 927 $ 1,340 Reclamation and environmental obligationsb 4,849 206 312 249 4,082 Take or pay contractsc 2,447 1,390 675 242 140 Operating lease obligations 198 27 47 25 99 Atlantic Copper obligation to insurance companyd 72 10 20 20 22 PT Freeport Indonesia mine closure and reclamation funde 18 1 1 1 15 Total contractual cash obligationsf $ 11,253 $ 2,105 $ 1,986 $ 1,464 $ 5,698 a. Scheduled interest payment obligations were calculated using stated coupon rates for fixed rate debt and interest rates applicable at December 31, 2009, for variable rate debt. b. Represents estimated cash payments, on an undiscounted and unescalated basis, associated with reclamation and environmental activities. The timing and the amount of these payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities and as actual spending occurs. Refer to Note 14 for additional discussion of environmental and reclamation matters. c. Represents contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services that are defined by us as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. Take or pay contracts primarily comprise the procurement of copper concentrates and cathodes ($1.9 billion), transportation ($227 million) and oxygen ($178 million). Some of our take or pay contracts are settled based on the prevailing market rate for the service or commodity purchased, and in some cases, the amount of the actual obligation may change over time because of market conditions. Obligations for copper concentrates and cathodes provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at market based prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper and the North America copper mines. Transportation obligations are primarily for South 100 Table of Contents America contracted ocean freight rates and for North America natural gas transportation. Oxygen obligations provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at fixed prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper. d. In August 2002, Atlantic Copper complied with Spanish legislation by agreeing to fund 7.2 million euros annually for 15 years to an approved insurance company for an estimated 72 million euro contractual obligation to supplement amounts paid to certain retired employees. Atlantic Copper had $58 million recorded for this obligation at December 31, 2009. e. Represents PT Freeport Indonesias commitments to contribute amounts to a cash fund designed to accumulate at least $100 million, including interest, by the end of our Indonesian mining activities to pay for mine closure and reclamation. f. This table excludes certain other obligations in our consolidated balance sheets, including estimated funding for pension obligations as the funding may vary from year to year based on changes in the fair value of plan assets and actuarial assumptions and accrued liabilities totaling $157 million that relate to unrecognized tax benefits where the timing of settlement is not determinable. This table also excludes purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services, as purchase orders typically represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. In addition to our debt maturities and other contractual obligations, we have other commitments, which we expect to fund with projected operating cash flows, available credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. These include (i) PT Freeport Indonesias commitment to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development, (ii) Cerro Verdes local mining fund contributions equal to 3.75 percent of after tax profits, (iii) Tenke Fungurumes commitment to provide 0.3 percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations and (iv) other commercial commitments, including standby letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees (refer to Notes 14 and 15 for further discussion). ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS Environmental The cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. We had $1.5 billion at December 31, 2009, and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2008, recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for environmental obligations attributed to CERCLA or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. Refer to Note 14 for further information about environmental regulation, including significant environmental matters. During 2009, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners shares) of $289 million for programs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations, compared to $377 million in 2008 and $280 million in 2007 (which included $188 million incurred from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, related to the acquired Phelps Dodge operations). The decrease in environmental capital spending for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to completion of large projects in 2008, combined with reduced discretionary spending and extended project timelines. The increase in environmental capital spending for 2008, compared with 2007, primarily related to a full twelve months of Phelps Dodge expenditures in 2008, combined with increased expenditures for accelerated remediation efforts. For 2010, we expect to incur approximately $400 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2010 operating budget. Projected environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs for 2010 include a $40 million payment for settlement of litigation associated with Pinal Creek (refer to Note 14) made in 2010 and increases in discretionary project spending carried over from 2009. Asset Retirement Obligations We recognize AROs as liabilities when incurred, with the initial measurement at fair value. These liabilities, which are initially estimated based on discounted cash flow estimates, are accreted to full value over time through charges to income. Reclamation costs for future disturbances are recorded as an ARO in the period of disturbance. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible, long lived assets. We had recorded AROs totaling $731 million at December 31, 2009, and $712 million at December 31, 2008, in current and long term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. Spending on AROs totaled $28 million in 2009, $91 million in 2008 and $40 million in 2007. The decrease in ARO spending for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to extended project timelines which resulted in reduced required expenditures for 2009. The increase in ARO spending for 2008, compared with 2007, primarily related to a full twelve months of Phelps Dodge expenditures in 2008, combined with increased spending for large projects in 2008. For 2010, we expect to incur approximately $38 million for aggregate ARO payments. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. 101 Table of Contents DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS Commodity Price Risk Our consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, molybdenum, gold and other metals by our North and South America copper mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operation, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Consolidated revenues, operating cash flows and net income vary significantly with fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum, sales volumes and other factors. Based on projected 2010 consolidated sales volumes and assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,100 per ounce of gold and $12 per pound of molybdenum for the year, our consolidated operating cash flows for 2010 would approximate $5.3 billion, net of an estimated $0.4 billion of working capital requirements. Operating cash flows would be impacted by approximately $260 million for each $0.10 per pound change in copper prices, $50 million for each $50 per ounce change in gold prices and $45 million for each $1 per pound change in molybdenum prices. For 2009, more than half of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, approximately 25 percent as cathodes and approximately 21 percent as rod (principally from our North America operations). Substantially all concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME prices. We receive market prices based on prices in the specified future period, which results in price fluctuations recorded through revenues until the date of settlement. We record revenues and invoice customers at the time of shipment based on then current LME prices, which results in an embedded derivative on our provisional priced concentrate and cathode sales that is adjusted to fair value through earnings each period, using the period end forward prices, until the date of final pricing. To the extent final prices are higher or lower than what was recorded on a provisional basis, an increase or decrease to revenues is recorded each reporting period until the date of final pricing. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from higher prices received for contracts priced at current market rates and also from an increase related to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior years; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. At December 31, 2008, we had provisionally priced copper sales totaling 508 million pounds at our copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average of $1.39 per pound. Consolidated revenues for 2009 include net additions for adjustments related to these prior year copper sales of $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share), compared with an increase of $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.30 per share) in 2008 and a decrease of $42 million ($18 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.05 per share) in 2007. At December 31, 2009, we had provisionally priced copper sales totaling 378 million pounds of copper at our copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average price of $3.34 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. We estimate that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the December 31, 2009, provisional price recorded would have a net impact on our 2010 consolidated revenues of approximately $25 million ($12 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders). The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. On limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. We do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future. 102 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs and certain assets and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol and euro. Generally, our results are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Following is a summary of estimated annual payments and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs: 10% Change in Exchange Rate per $1 Exchange Rate at December 31, Estimated Annual Payments (in millions)b 2009 2008 2007 (in local currency) (in millions)a Increase Decrease Indonesia Rupiah 9,420 10,850 9,390 2.5 trillion $ 265 $ (24 ) $ 30 Australian dollar 1.12 1.43 1.14 200 million $ 178 $ (16 ) $ 20 South America Chilean peso 506 648 498 250 billion $ 494 $ (45 ) $ 55 Peruvian nuevo sol 2.89 3.17 3.05 250 million $ 87 $ (8 ) $ 10 Atlantic Copper Euro 0.69 0.72 0.68 120 million $ 173 $ (16 ) $ 19 a. Based on December 31, 2009, exchange rates. b. Reflects the estimated impact on annual operating costs assuming a 10 percent increase or decrease in the exchange rate reported at December 31, 2009. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2009, we had total debt of $6.3 billion, of which approximately 19 percent was variable rate debt with interest rates based on LIBOR or the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR). The table below presents average interest rates for our scheduled maturities of principal for our outstanding debt and the related fair values at December 31, 2009 (in millions, except percentages): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ $ 89 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 5,066 $ 5,552 Average interest rate 8.7 % 5.8 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 8.3 % 8.3 % Variable rate debt $ 16 $ 4 $ 13 $ $ $ 1,155 $ 1,183 Average interest rate 1.4 % 2.1 % 1.0 % 4.3 % 4.2 % NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS We do not expect the impact of recently issued accounting standards to have a significant impact on our future financial statements and disclosures. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Refer to Note 15 for information on off balance sheet arrangements. 103 Table of Contents PRODUCT REVENUES AND PRODUCTION COSTS Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. We present gross profit per pound of copper using both a by product method and a co product method. We use the by product method in our presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of our revenues are copper revenues, (ii) we mine ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of our costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals we produce, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by our management and Board of Directors to monitor operations. In the co product method presentation below, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change. In both the by product and the co product method calculations, we show adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, we have reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as LCM inventory adjustments, stock based compensation costs, write offs of equipment or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. Gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by product method. Presentations under both the by product and co product methods are shown below together with reconciliations to amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2,823 $ 2,823 $ 274 $ 45 $ 3,142 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,483 1,364 142 22 1,528 By product creditsa (274 ) Treatment charges 102 100 2 102 Net cash costs 1,311 1,464 142 24 1,630 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 264 251 10 3 264 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 129 127 2 129 Total costs 1,704 1,842 154 27 2,023 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging 92 92 92 Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (100 ) (100 ) (100 ) Gross profit $ 1,111 $ 973 $ 120 $ 18 $ 1,111 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,142 $ 1,528 $ 264 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 129 N/A Treatment charges per above N/A 102 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging per above 92 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 1 152 16 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 c 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 c $ 1,014 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 105 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 4,382 $ 4,382 $ 892 $ 72 $ 5,346 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 2,681 2,326 374 35 2,735 By product creditsa (910 ) Treatment charges 134 130 4 134 Net cash costs 1,905 2,456 374 39 2,869 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 753 664 83 6 753 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 743 c 701 39 3 743 Total costs 3,401 3,821 496 48 4,365 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging (71 ) (71 ) (71 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (85 ) (83 ) (2 ) (85 ) Gross profit $ 825 $ 407 $ 394 $ 24 $ 825 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 5,346 $ 2,735 $ 753 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 743 c N/A Treatment charges per above N/A 134 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging per above (71 ) N/A N/A Eliminations and other (10 ) 96 17 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 d $ 1,782 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. Includes charges totaling $661 million for LCM inventory adjustments. d. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 106 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007a By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenumb Otherc Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,526 $ 3,526 $ 717 $ 47 $ 4,290 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,516 1,296 253 18 1,567 By product creditsb (713 ) Treatment charges 100 98 2 100 Net cash costs 903 1,394 253 20 1,667 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 487 418 67 2 487 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 361 341 4 16 361 Total costs 1,751 2,153 324 38 2,515 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging (203 ) (203 ) (203 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (56 ) (55 ) (1 ) (56 ) Gross profit $ 1,516 $ 1,115 $ 392 $ 9 $ 1,516 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported for the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,290 $ 1,567 $ 487 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 361 N/A Treatment charges per above N/A 100 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging per above (203 ) N/A N/A Eliminations and other 6 138 12 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 Africa mining 10 2 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 a. Reflects the results of the North America copper mines under FCX management. b. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. c. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. 107 Table of Contents South America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other a Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,768 $ 3,768 $ 167 $ 3,935 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,512 1,429 91 1,520 By product credits (159 ) Treatment charges 206 206 206 Net cash costs 1,559 1,635 91 1,726 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 275 267 8 275 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 28 28 28 Total costs 1,862 1,930 99 2,029 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 109 109 109 Other non inventoriable costs (31 ) (26 ) (5 ) (31 ) Gross profit $ 1,984 $ 1,921 $ 63 $ 1,984 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,935 $ 1,520 $ 275 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 28 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (206 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 109 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 1 15 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 b 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 b $ 1,014 a. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. b. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 108 Table of Contents South America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other a Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,910 $ 3,910 $ 216 $ 4,126 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,711 1,631 102 1,733 By product credits (194 ) Treatment charges 211 211 211 Net cash costs 1,728 1,842 102 1,944 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 508 483 25 508 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 103 b 100 3 103 Total costs 2,339 2,425 130 2,555 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 230 230 230 Other non inventoriable costs (37 ) (34 ) (3 ) (37 ) Gross profit $ 1,764 $ 1,681 $ 83 $ 1,764 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,126 $ 1,733 $ 508 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 103 b N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (211 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 230 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 21 18 3 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 c $ 1,782 a. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. b. Includes charges totaling $10 million for LCM inventory adjustments. c. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 109 Table of Contents South America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007a By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other b Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,882 $ 3,882 $ 123 $ 4,005 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,078 1,040 52 1,092 By product credits (109 ) Treatment charges 240 239 1 240 Net cash costs 1,209 1,279 53 1,332 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 377 364 13 377 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 171 170 1 171 Total costs 1,757 1,813 67 1,880 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 75 75 75 Other non inventoriable costs (28 ) (27 ) (1 ) (28 ) Gross profit $ 2,172 $ 2,117 $ 55 $ 2,172 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported for the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,005 $ 1,092 $ 377 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 171 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (240 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 75 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 39 14 1 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 Africa mining 10 2 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 a. Reflects the results of the South America copper mines under FCX management. b. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. 110 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 3,708 $ 3,708 $ 2,532 $ 74 $ 6,314 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,468 862 589 17 1,468 Gold and silver credits (2,606 ) Treatment charges 312 183 125 4 312 Royalty on metals 147 86 59 2 147 Net cash costs (679 ) 1,131 773 23 1,927 Depreciation and amortization 275 162 110 3 275 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 37 22 15 37 Total costs (367 ) 1,315 898 26 2,239 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 53 53 53 PT Smelting intercompany profit (54 ) (32 ) (21 ) (1 ) (54 ) Gross profit $ 4,074 $ 2,414 $ 1,613 $ 47 $ 4,074 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 6,314 $ 1,468 $ 275 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 37 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (312 ) N/A N/A Less: Royalty per above (147 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 53 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 a 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 a $ 1,014 a. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 111 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 2,628 $ 2,628 $ 1,025 $ 50 $ 3,703 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,762 1,252 487 23 1,762 Gold and silver credits (1,075 ) Treatment charges 268 190 74 4 268 Royalty on metals 113 80 31 2 113 Net cash costs 1,068 1,522 592 29 2,143 Depreciation and amortization 222 158 61 3 222 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 30 22 8 30 Total costs 1,320 1,702 661 32 2,395 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 90 90 90 PT Smelting intercompany profit 17 12 5 17 Gross profit $ 1,415 $ 1,028 $ 369 $ 18 $ 1,415 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,703 $ 1,762 $ 222 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 30 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (268 ) N/A N/A Less: Royalty per above (113 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 90 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 a $ 1,782 a. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 112 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2007 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 3,777 $ 3,777 $ 1,490 $ 48 $ 5,315 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,342 954 376 12 1,342 Gold and silver credits (1,538 ) Treatment charges 385 274 108 3 385 Royalty on metals 133 94 38 1 133 Net cash costs 322 1,322 522 16 1,860 Depreciation and amortization 199 141 56 2 199 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 46 33 12 1 46 Total costs 567 1,496 590 19 2,105 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 11 11 11 PT Smelting intercompany profit 13 10 3 13 Gross profit $ 3,234 $ 2,302 $ 903 $ 29 $ 3,234 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 5,315 $ 1,342 $ 199 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 46 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (385 ) N/A N/A Less: Royalty per above (133 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 11 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 Africa mining 10 2 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 113 Table of Contents Henderson Molybdenum Mine Product Revenues and Production Costs Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 a Revenues $ 317 $ 1,182 $ 853 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 148 216 137 Net cash costs 148 216 137 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 26 172 80 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 1 7 b 2 Total costs 175 395 219 Gross profitc $ 142 $ 787 $ 634 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Production Depreciation, (In millions) and Depletion and Revenues Delivery Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2009 Totals presented above $ 317 $ 148 $ 26 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 1 N/A Henderson mine 317 149 26 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsd 530 511 e 23 Molybdenum 847 660 49 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 e $ 1,014 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Totals presented above $ 1,182 $ 216 $ 172 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 7 b N/A Henderson mine 1,182 223 172 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsd 1,306 1,406 e 20 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 f $ 1,782 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Totals presented above $ 853 $ 137 $ 80 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 2 N/A Henderson mine 853 139 80 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsd 893 1,148 14 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 Africa mining 10 2 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, which represents the results of the Henderson molybdenum mine under FCX management. 114 Table of Contents b. Includes charges totaling $1 million for LCM inventory adjustments. c. Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum segment includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. d. Primarily includes amounts associated with the molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. e. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million in 2009 and $100 million in 2008. f. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Our discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future. Forward looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, production and sales volumes, unit net cash costs, operating cash flows, capital expenditures, mine production and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, anticipated environmental reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, reserve estimates, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, potential prepayments of debt and future dividend payments. Our discussion and analysis also includes forward looking statements regarding mineralized material not included in reserves. The mineralized material described in our discussion and analysis will not qualify as reserves until comprehensive engineering studies establish their economic feasibility. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineralized material not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves. Accuracy of the forward looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments. We caution readers that we assume no obligation to update the forward looking statements in this discussion and analysis and we do not intend to update the forward looking statements more frequently than quarterly. Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from results anticipated by forward looking statements include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, potential outcomes of the contract review process in the Democratic Republic of Congo, weather related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 115 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. Grasberg Open Pit. We began open pit mining of the Grasberg ore body in 1990. Open pit operations are expected to continue through mid 2016, at which time underground mining operations are scheduled to begin at our Grasberg Block Cave mine, which is currently in development. Production is currently at the 3,295 to 4,285 meter elevation level and totaled 57 million metric tons of ore in 2009 and 49 million metric tons of ore in 2008, which provided 70 percent of our 2009 mill feed and 67 percent of our 2008 mill feed. Remaining mill feed comes from our DOZ mine. The current Grasberg equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. The larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 163 haul trucks with payloads ranging from approximately 215 metric tons to 330 metric tons and 18 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 cubic meters to 42 cubic meters, which in 2009 moved an average of 725,000 metric tons per day. Grasberg crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity to transport up to 225,000 metric tons per day of Grasberg ore to the mill and 135,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. The remaining ore and overburden is moved by haul trucks. Deep Ore Zone. The DOZ ore body lies vertically below the now depleted Intermediate Ore Zone. We began production from the DOZ ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but we suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the Grasberg deposit. Production resumed in September 2000 using the block cave method. Production is at the 3,110 meter elevation level and totaled 26 million metric tons of ore in 2009 and 23 million metric tons in 2008. Production at the DOZ mine is expected to continue through 2020 and we plan to ramp up production at our Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) block cave mine, which is currently under development, beginning in 2015. During 2009, we completed over 11,000 meters of development drifting in support of the block cave mining method for the DOZ mine. Further expansion of the DOZ operation to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day is substantially complete. The success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the worlds largest underground 19 Table of Contents mines, provides confidence in the future development of PT Freeport Indonesias large scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. The DOZ mine fleet consists of over 185 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which in 2009 moved an average of 72,000 metric tons of ore per day. The primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 49 load haul dump (LHD) units and 23 haul trucks. Our production LHD units typically carry approximately 11 metric tons of ore. Using ore passes and chutes, the LHD units transfer ore into 55 ton capacity haul trucks. The trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles. PT Freeport Indonesias total production for 2009 was 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.6 million ounces of gold. Our principal source of power for all our Indonesian operations is a coal fired power plant that we built in conjunction with our fourth concentrator mill expansion. Diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. A combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. Our Indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. Description of Ore Bodies. Our Indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the Grasberg monzodiorite and the Ertsberg diorite. The host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the Sudirman Range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. The igneous hosted ore bodies (the Grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the DOZ block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a much lesser extent, bornite. The sedimentary rock hosted ore bodies occur as magnetite rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. The copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is also dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. Moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the districts ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. These gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. The following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported ore bodies. 20 Table of Contents The following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported ore bodies and their locations. Africa At Tenke Fungurume, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining concessions under general mining laws and our mining rights remain in force as long as the concessions are exploitable. The concessions are owned or controlled by operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have an ownership interest. Tenke Fungurume We own an effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume minerals district. The remaining ownership interests are held by Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin) (an effective 24.75 percent interest) and La Gnrale des Carrires et des Mines (Gcamines), which is wholly owned by the Government of the DRC (17.5 percent non dilutable interest). 21 Table of Contents In 2009, we completed the approximate $2 billion initial project at the Tenke Fungurume minerals district. Pursuant to our agreement with Lundin, we were responsible for funding our share (70 percent) of the project development costs and 100 percent of certain cost overruns on the initial project. We and Lundin will be repaid our advances prior to distributions to the stockholders of Tenke Fungurume. Accordingly, we will receive a disproportionate share of cash flow until the cost overrun financing and advances are repaid. Additionally, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, Gcamines will receive asset transfer payments totaling $100 million, $80 million of which have already been paid and the remainder of which will be paid over the next two years. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are located in the Katanga province of the DRC approximately 110 miles northwest of Lubumbashi. The deposits are accessible by unpaved roads and by rail. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are sediment hosted copper and cobalt deposits with oxide, mixed oxide sulfide and sulfide mineralization. The dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. Important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite. Copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation leach plant capable of processing 8,000 metric tons of ore per day. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and achieved targeted production rates in September 2009. The cobalt and sulphuric acid plants were commissioned in September 2009 and we continue to address start up and quality issues in the cobalt circuit and expect to reach sustained targeted production rates during 2010. Current operations are designed to produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year. The current equipment fleet includes 10 five cubic meter front end loaders, 29 45 metric ton haul trucks, surface miners, production drills, sampling machines and crawler dozers. We commenced a feasibility study in fourth quarter 2009 to evaluate a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and potentially increasing capacity by approximately 50 percent. The feasibility study is expected to be completed by mid year 2010. The timing of these expansions will depend on a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions. Tenke Fungurume is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. Weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,480 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,270 meters above sea level. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are located within four concessions totaling 394,455 acres. Tenke Fungurume has entered into long term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with La Socit Nationale dElectricit (SNEL), the state owned electric utility company serving the region. The results of a recent water exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available for the project, and for hydro electric generation during the expected life of the operation. In February 2008, the Ministry of Mines, Government of the DRC, sent a letter seeking comment on proposed material modifications to the mining contracts for the Tenke Fungurume concession. We are continuing to work cooperatively with the DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review but cannot predict the timing or outcome of the process. The contract review process has not affected our development schedule and we are continuing to operate pursuant to the terms of our contract. We believe the contract is fair and equitable, complies with Congolese law and is enforceable without modification. 22 Table of Contents PRODUCTION DATA For comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. COPPER Years Ended December 31, (millions of recoverable pounds) 2009 2008 2007a 2006a 2005a MINED COPPER (FCXs net interest in %) North America Morenci (85%)b 428 626 687 693 680 Bagdad (100%) 225 227 202 165 201 Safford (100%) 184 133 1 Sierrita (100%) 170 188 150 162 158 Tyrone (100%) 86 76 50 64 81 Chino (100%) 36 155 190 186 210 Miami (100%) 16 19 20 19 25 Other (100%) 2 6 20 16 10 Total North America 1,147 1,430 1,320 c 1,305 1,365 South America Cerro Verde (53.56%) 662 694 594 222 206 Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%) 370 446 453 429 421 El Abra (51%) 358 366 366 482 464 Total South America 1,390 1,506 1,413 c 1,133 1,091 Indonesia Grasberg (90.64%)d 1,412 1,094 1,151 1,201 1,456 Africa Tenke Fungurume (57.75%) 154 Consolidated 4,103 4,030 3,884 3,639 3,912 Less noncontrolling participants share 754 693 653 537 543 Net 3,349 3,337 3,231 3,102 3,369 GOLD (thousands of recoverable ounces) MINED GOLD (FCXs net interest in %) North America (100%)b 4 14 15 19 17 South America (80%) 92 114 116 e 112 117 Indonesia (90.64%)d 2,568 1,163 2,198 1,732 2,789 Consolidated 2,664 1,291 2,329 1,863 2,923 Less noncontrolling participants share 258 132 229 184 284 Net 2,406 1,159 2,100 1,679 2,639 MOLYBDENUM (millions of recoverable pounds) MINED MOLYBDENUM (FCXs net interest in %) Henderson (100%) 27 40 39 f 37 32 By product North America (100%)b 25 30 30 31 30 By product Cerro Verde (53.56%) 2 3 1 Consolidated 54 73 70 68 62 Less noncontrolling participants share 1 1 Net 53 72 70 68 62 a. For comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Amounts are net of Morencis 15 percent joint venture partner interest. c. Includes North America copper production of 258 million pounds and South America copper production of 259 million pounds for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. d. Amounts are net of Grasbergs joint venture partners interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. e. Includes gold production of 21 thousand ounces for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. f. Includes molybdenum production of 14 million pounds for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. 23 Table of Contents SALES DATA For comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. Years Ended December 31, COPPER (millions of recoverable pounds) 2009 2008 2007a 2006a 2005a MINED COPPER (FCXs net interest in %) North America Morenci (85%)b 459 646 693 692 680 Bagdad (100%) 225 226 200 165 209 Safford (100%) 176 107 Sierrita (100%) 172 184 157 161 165 Tyrone (100%) 85 71 53 64 81 Chino (100%) 52 174 186 186 209 Miami (100%) 16 20 24 19 29 Other (100%) 2 6 19 16 10 Total North America 1,187 1,434 1,332 c 1,303 1,383 South America Cerro Verde (53.56%) 667 701 587 214 205 Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%) 366 455 447 425 421 El Abra (51%) 361 365 365 487 467 Total South America 1,394 1,521 1,399 c 1,126 1,093 Indonesia Grasberg (90.64%)d 1,400 1,111 1,131 1,201 1,457 Africa Tenke Fungurume (57.75%) 130 Consolidated 4,111 4,066 3,862 3,630 3,933 Less minority participants share 746 699 647 535 545 Net 3,365 3,367 3,215 3,095 3,388 Consolidated sales from mines 4,111 4,066 3,862 3,630 3,933 Purchased copper 166 483 650 736 821 Total consolidated sales 4,277 4,549 4,512 4,366 4,754 Average realized price per pound $2.60 $2.69 $3.22 e $2.80 e $1.66 e GOLD (thousands of recoverable ounces) MINED GOLD (FCXs net interest in %) North America (100%)b 6 16 21 19 18 South America (80%) 90 116 114 f 111 117 Indonesia (90.64%)d 2,543 1,182 2,185 1,736 2,790 Consolidated 2,639 1,314 2,320 1,866 2,925 Less minority participants share 256 134 228 185 285 Net 2,383 1,180 2,092 1,681 2,640 Consolidated sales from mines 2,639 1,314 2,320 1,866 2,925 Purchased gold 1 2 6 12 12 Total consolidated sales 2,640 1,316 2,326 1,878 2,937 Average realized price per ounce $993 $861 $682 $566 g $454 MOLYBDENUM (millions of recoverable pounds) Consolidated sales from mines 58 71 69 h 69 60 Less minority participants share 1 1 Net 57 70 69 69 60 Consolidated sales from mines 58 71 69 69 60 Purchased molybdenum 6 8 9 8 13 Total consolidated sales 64 79 78 77 73 Average realized price per pound $12.36 $30.55 $25.87 $21.87 $25.89 24 Table of Contents a. For comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Amounts are net of Morencis joint venture partners 15 percent interest. c. Includes North America copper sales of 283 million pounds and South America copper sales of 222 million pounds for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. d. Amounts are net of Grasbergs joint venture partners interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. e. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.27 per pound for 2007, $3.08 per pound for 2006 and $1.76 per pound for 2005. f. Includes gold sales of 18 thousand ounces for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. g. Amount was approximately $606 per ounce before a loss on redemption of our Gold Denominated Preferred Stock, Series II. h. Includes molybdenum sales of 17 million pounds for Phelps Dodges pre acquisition results. DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AND EXPLORATION We have several projects and potential opportunities to expand our production volumes, extend our mine lives and develop large scale underground ore bodies. During fourth quarter 2008, we deferred several project development activities because of the downturn in global economic conditions. Major development projects for 2009 consisted of underground development in the Grasberg minerals district and the Tenke Fungurume project, for which construction activities on the initial project are complete. During fourth quarter 2009, we announced that we are resuming certain project development activities that were deferred. For further discussion of our development projects and exploration activities, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. As discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we have several projects in progress in the Grasberg mineral district, including development of the Common Infrastructure project, Grasberg Block Cave, the Big Gossan underground mine, a further expansion of the DOZ underground mine (which is substantially complete) and development of the Deep Mill Level Zone ore body. We also have an additional long term underground mine development project in the Grasberg minerals district for the Kucing Liar ore body, which is discussed below and is based on our latest mine plans and proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 2009. The Kucing Liar ore body lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the Grasberg open pit at the 2,605 meter elevation level. We expect to mine the Kucing Liar ore body using the block cave method. A pre feasibility study for the development of the Kucing Liar ore body was completed during 2009 and indicated aggregate capital costs of approximately $2.5 billion. Based on current estimates, we expect aggregate expenditures for underground mine development in the Grasberg minerals district to average approximately $450 million annually during the next 15 years. These costs will be shared with Rio Tinto in accordance with our joint venture agreement. Considering the long term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates. In addition to the mine development costs above, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once Grasberg open pit operations cease. Substantially all of these expenditures will be made between 2017 and 2029. We continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our reserves. SMELTING FACILITIES Atlantic Copper, S.A. Atlantic Copper is our wholly owned copper smelter and refinery located in Huelva, Spain. Atlantic Copper completed the last expansion of its production capacity in 1997. The design capacity of the smelter is 290,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity of 260,000 metric tons of copper per year. We have no present plans to expand Atlantic Coppers production capacity. Atlantic Coppers facilities are located on land concessions from the Huelva, Spain port authorities and expire in 2027. During 2009, Atlantic Copper treated 1,000,700 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 269,000 metric tons of copper anodes and 256,600 metric tons of copper cathodes. During 2008, Atlantic Copper treated 1,028,100 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 259,900 metric tons of copper anodes and 257,100 metric tons of copper cathodes. In June 2007, Atlantic Copper completed a scheduled 23 day maintenance turnaround. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every 12 years for Atlantic Copper, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds occurring in the interim. The next scheduled maintenance 25 Table of Contents activity at Atlantic Copper is in 2011. During 2009, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 35 percent of its concentrate requirements from PT Freeport Indonesia and approximately 25 percent from our South America copper mines at market prices. Atlantic Copper has experienced no significant operating problems. We made no capital contributions to Atlantic Copper from 2005 through 2009. We loan funds to Atlantic Copper from time to time, and at December 31, 2009, these loans totaled $381 million. Our net investment in Atlantic Copper at December 31, 2009, was approximately $70 million. PT Smelting. PT Freeport Indonesias 1991 COW required us to construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in Indonesia if we and the Indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. In 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of PT Smelting, an Indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation (Mitsubishi Materials), Mitsubishi Corporation (Mitsubishi) and Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd. (Nippon) own 25 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5 percent, and 5 percent, respectively, of the outstanding PT Smelting common stock. PT Smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. During 2006, PT Smelting completed an expansion of its production capacity to 275,000 metric tons of copper per year from 250,000 metric tons. PT Freeport Indonesias contract with PT Smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements necessary for PT Smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually (essentially the smelters original design capacity) on a priority basis. For the first 15 years of PT Smeltings commercial operations, beginning December 1998, PT Freeport Indonesia agreed that the combined treatment and refining charges (fees paid to smelters by miners) would approximate market rates, but will not fall below specified minimum rates. The minimum rate, applicable to the period April 27, 2008 to April 27, 2014, is to be determined annually and to be sufficient to cover PT Smeltings annual cash operating costs (net of credits and including costs of debt service) for 205,000 metric tons of copper. The maximum rate is $0.30 per pound. The agreement is an amendment to the long term contract, which was approved by the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Government of Indonesia in 2009. PT Freeport Indonesia also sells copper concentrate to PT Smelting at market rates, which are not subject to a minimum or maximum rate, for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. During 2009, PT Smelting treated 1,073,900 metric tons of concentrate and produced 310,200 metric tons of copper anodes and 286,000 metric tons of copper cathodes. During 2008, PT Smelting treated 978,100 metric tons of concentrate and produced 261,300 metric tons of copper anodes and 253,400 metric tons of copper cathodes. Higher volumes of anodes in 2009, compared to 2008, primarily reflect a 25 day maintenance turnaround in the second quarter of 2008. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every four years for PT Smelting, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. Miami Smelter. We own and operate a smelter at our Miami, Arizona mining operation. The smelter processes concentrate primarily from our Arizona mines. The smelter has been in production for over 80 years and has been upgraded during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with current air quality standards. Concentrate processed through the smelter totaled approximately 619,000 metric tons in 2009 and 719,000 metric tons in 2008. The Miami smelter completed a 40 day major maintenance turnaround in February 2009. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every 20 months for Miami, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. Sulphuric acid is a by product of smelting concentrates, and the Miami smelter is the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our U.S. leaching operations. OTHER PROPERTIES Rod & Refining Operations. Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in North America including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut and Miami, Arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper anode production from our smelter in Miami, Arizona, along with purchased anodes, at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all the copper anode we produce at Miami. Our El Paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. 26 Table of Contents Molybdenum Conversion Facilities. We process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as technical grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. We operate molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The conversion facility located at our Sierrita mine consists of two molybdenum roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a toll basis for third parties. The facility produces molybdenum oxide and related products. The Fort Madison, Iowa, facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphuric acid plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical conversion plant, which includes a wet chemicals plant, sublimation equipment and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. In the chemical plant, molybdic oxide is further refined into various high purity molybdenum chemicals for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. In addition to metallurgical oxide products, the Fort Madison facility produces ammonium dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum disulfide. The Rotterdam conversion facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid plant, metallurgical packaging facility and chemical conversion plant. The plant produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. Ammonium dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet chemicals plant. We also produce ferromolybdenum for worldwide customers at our conversion plant located in Stowmarket, United Kingdom. The plant is operated both as an internal and external customer tolling facility. SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS Energy (including electricity, diesel fuel, coal and natural gas), sulphuric acid and water are the principal raw materials used in our operations. Most of our energy is obtained from third parties under long term contracts. For additional information, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Sulphuric acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by product of the smelting process at our smelters. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties as needed. Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. COMPETITION We are one of the worlds largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. With respect to copper, which generated approximately 75 percent of our mining revenues in 2009, the top 10 producers comprise approximately 55 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. We currently rank second among those producers at approximately 10 percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. Our competitive position is based on the quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. We have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. Our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. The metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs. 27 Table of Contents LABOR MATTERS At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 28,400 people (approximately 11,900 in Indonesia, 8,400 in North America, 4,400 in South America, 2,900 in Africa and 800 in Europe and other locations). Additionally, we have contractors that have personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 8,600 at our Grasberg minerals district, 4,900 at our South America operations, 2,100 at Tenke Fungurume, 600 in North America and 400 at Atlantic Copper. Employees represented by unions are listed below, with the approximate number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements. Number of Union Number of Represented Location Unions Employees Expiration Date PT Freeport Indonesia Indonesia 1 6,794 September 2011 Tenke Fungurume DRC 2 2,927 May 2010 Cerro Verde Peru 1 1,023 August 2011 El Abra Chile 2 794 July 2012 Candelaria Chile 2 603 July 2013 Atlantic Copper Spain 2 402 December 2011 Bayway New Jersey 1 50 April 2010 Stowmarket United Kingdom 1 40 May 2011 Aurex Chile 1 33 December 2013 Rotterdam The Netherlands 2 22 March 2011 Chino New Mexico 1 14 November 2009a a. Negotiations are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of the expired contract. FM Services Company (FM Services), a wholly owned subsidiary of FCX, furnishes certain executive, administrative, financial, accounting, legal, tax and similar services to us. As of December 31, 2009, FM Services had 167 employees. FM Services employees also provide these services to two other publicly traded companies. ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS The costs of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, see Item 1A. Risk Factors; Item 3. Legal Proceedings; Note 1 and Note 14. COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS We have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate that are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. We continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs cultural preservation programs water and sewage treatment projects clean water access charitable donations 28 Table of Contents In December 2000, we endorsed the joint U.S. State Department British Foreign Office Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security (Voluntary Principles). Several major natural resources companies and international human rights organizations participated in developing the Voluntary Principles and have endorsed them. We participated in developing these principles and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. We believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. Nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. South America. Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. During 2006, as a result of discussions with local mayors in the Arequipa region, Cerro Verde agreed to contribute to the design and construction of domestic water and sewage treatment plants for the benefit of the region. These facilities are being designed in a modular fashion so that initial installations can be readily expanded in the future. We have funded approximately 150 million Peruvian nuevo soles (approximately $49 million) as of December 31, 2009, to a designated bank account to be used for financing Cerro Verdes share of the construction costs of these facilities. During 2006, the Peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in Peru will make annual contributions to local development funds for a five year period when copper prices exceed certain levels that are adjusted annually. The contribution is equal to 3.75 percent of after tax profits, of which 2.75 percent is contributed to a local mining fund and 1.00 percent to a regional mining fund. Cerro Verdes contributions totaled $28 million in both 2009 and 2008 and $49 million in 2007. Indonesia. In 1996, PT Freeport Indonesia established the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development (formerly the Freeport Fund for Irian Jaya Development), through which PT Freeport Indonesia has made available funding and technical assistance to support the economic, health, education and social development of the area. PT Freeport Indonesia has committed through 2011 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the Partnership Fund. Our share of contributions to the Partnership Fund totaled $59 million in 2009, $34 million in 2008 and $48 million in 2007. Our joint venture partner, Rio Tinto, also contributes to this fund and, including their share, the contributions totaled $69 million in 2009, $35 million in 2008 and $53 million in 2007. The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pembangunan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoro or LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of PT Freeport Indonesia on each board. The Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. Security Matters in Indonesia. Consistent with our COW in Indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As part of its security program, PT Freeport Indonesia maintains its own internal security department, which performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring the shipment of company goods through the airport and terminal, assisting in traffic control and aiding rescue operations. PT Freeport Indonesias civilian security employees (numbering approximately 725) are unarmed and perform duties consistent with their internal security role. PT Freeport Indonesias share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled approximately $18 million for 2009, $22 million for 2008 and $17 million for 2007. The security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy. PT Freeport Indonesia, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the Government of Indonesia for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals district has been designated by the Government of Indonesia as one of Indonesias vital national assets. This designation results in the police and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. The Government of Indonesia is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. From the outset of PT Freeport Indonesias operations, the government has looked to PT Freeport Indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited 29 Table of Contents resources of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in Papua. PT Freeport Indonesias financial support for the Indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol PT Freeport Indonesias roads and secure its operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT Freeport Indonesias obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. PT Freeport Indonesias share of support costs for the government provided security, currently involving approximately 3,000 Indonesian government security personnel located in the general area of our operations, was $10 million for 2009, $8 million for 2008 and $9 million for 2007. This supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. PT Freeport Indonesias capital costs for associated infrastructure was approximately $2 million in 2009 and less than $1 million a year in 2008 and 2007. Since July 2009, there have been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at the Grasberg mining complex, including an incident in January 2010. In connection with these incidents, there have been three fatalities (including a PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. As originally reported in January 2006, we received and responded to requests from U.S. governmental authorities related to PT Freeport Indonesias support of Indonesian security institutions. In May 2009, we were notified by the SEC that the U.S. governments investigation had been completed and no action has been recommended. Africa. Tenke Fungurume has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the Katanga province of the DRC. Initiatives that have commenced over the past three years include a malaria control program, construction and operational support for six elementary schools, installation of over 40 clean water wells throughout the concession as well as five villages outside the concession, a public sanitation (latrines and hand washing) program reaching over 2,000 households, a mobile clinic for rural villages, and economic development programs supporting local entrepreneurs, farmers and womens income generation, and literacy groups. We have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems. Additionally, we have committed to contribute 0.3 percent of net sales revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services, such as those pertaining to health, education and economic development. This fund will be a platform to work jointly with the local government and community to further assist them to fulfill their local development plans, meet basic community needs and promote good governance. Community development fund contributions for 2009 totaled approximately $1 million. Similar to our operations in Indonesia, Tenke Fungurume is required to engage government security institutions to assist with security matters at its concession area. In this regard, Tenke Fungurume provides food, housing, monetary allowances and logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. The total cost to Tenke Fungurume for this support, including in kind support, totaled less than $1 million in 2009. 30 Table of Contents ORE RESERVES Recoverable proven and probable reserves summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of December 31, 2009, in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. Proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. The term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term proven reserves means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. The term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Our reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. Estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2009, were determined using long term average prices of $1.60 per pound for copper, $550 per ounce for gold, $8.00 per pound for molybdenum, $12.00 per ounce for silver and $10.00 per pound for cobalt. The London spot metal prices for the past three years averaged $2.91 per pound for copper and $847 per ounce for gold, and molybdenum prices for the past three years averaged approximately $23 per pound. Recoverable Proven and Probable Reservesa at December 31, 2009 Copper Gold Molybdenum Silver Cobalt (billion pounds) (million ounces) (million pounds) (million ounces) (billion pounds) North America 27.7 0.2 2,072 56.5 South America 34.0 1.5 519 88.3 Indonesia 34.1 35.5 125.6 Africa 8.4 0.78 Consolidated basisb 104.2 37.2 2,591 270.4 0.78 Net equity interestc 83.0 33.6 2,350 224.1 0.45 a. Recoverable proven and probable reserves are estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Recoverable copper reserves in this table include 2.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles, including our joint venture partners interest in the Morenci mine. b. Consolidated basis reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. c. Net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 31 Table of Contents Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves Estimated at December 31, 2009 Proven Reserves Probable Reserves Average Ore Grade Average Ore Grade Processing Million Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Million Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Method metric tons % g/t % g/t % metric tons % g/t % g/t % North America Morenci Mill 177 0.55 0.025 1 0.77 Crushed leach 358 0.62 7 0.62 ROM leach 2,554 0.20 69 0.24 Sierrita Mill 1,310 0.26 b 0.029 1.51 131 0.23 b 0.023 1.34 ROM leach 4 0.18 1 0.13 Bagdad Mill 660 0.37 b 0.022 1.84 99 0.30 b 0.018 1.49 ROM leach 95 0.17 110 0.15 Safford Crushed leach 147 0.45 96 0.43 Tyrone ROM leach 138 0.32 42 0.24 Henderson Mill 134 0.180 4 0.190 Chino Mill 54 0.66 0.03 0.013 0.49 6 0.55 0.03 0.014 0.42 ROM leach 68 0.41 14 0.30 Miami ROM leach 74 0.44 17 0.35 Climaxa Mill 76 0.189 114 0.137 Cobrea ROM leach 71 0.40 2 0.23 5,920 0.28 b 0.016 0.54 713 0.23 b 0.030 0.46 South America Cerro Verde Mill 746 0.45 0.017 1.28 2,063 0.39 0.015 1.12 Crushed leach 89 0.57 73 0.48 ROM leach 32 0.26 50 0.23 El Abra Crushed leach 440 0.55 112 0.50 ROM leach 284 0.32 140 0.30 Candelaria Mill 382 0.54 0.12 2.04 29 0.59 0.13 2.22 Ojos del Salado Mill 6 1.13 0.26 3.18 3 1.08 0.25 3.02 1,979 0.47 0.02 0.006 0.89 2,470 0.39 b 0.012 0.96 Indonesia Grasberg open pit Mill 198 0.96 1.15 2.39 134 0.81 0.86 2.04 Deep Ore Zone Mill 85 0.65 0.64 3.24 169 0.57 0.68 2.58 Grasberg block cavea Mill 308 1.23 1.15 3.49 698 0.94 0.66 3.19 Kucing Liara Mill 156 1.32 1.15 7.51 285 1.20 1.06 6.57 Deep Mill Level Zonea Mill 59 1.00 0.78 4.94 442 0.87 0.74 4.38 Big Gossana Mill 10 2.49 1.26 17.04 46 2.20 1.04 13.66 816 1.12 1.07 4.24 1,774 0.95 0.77 4.16 Africa Tenke Fungurume Agitation leach 50 3.37 0.399 85 2.99 0.289 Total 8,765 0.42 0.11 0.012 0.96 0.002 5,042 0.61 0.27 0.010 2.00 0.005 a. Undeveloped reserves requiring significant capital investment to bring into production. b. Grade not shown because of rounding. The reserve table above and the tables on pages 33 to 35 and 40 utilize the following abbreviations: g/t grams per metric ton Moly Molybdenum ROM Run of Mine 32 Table of Contents Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves Estimated at December 31, 2009 (continued) Average Ore Grade Recoveriesa Proven and Probable Processing Million Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % % % North America Morenci Mill 178 0.55 0.025 79.3 27.8 Crushed leach 365 0.62 77.9 ROM leach 2,623 0.21 43.6 Sierrita Mill 1,441 0.25 b 0.028 1.50 81.9 59.1 80.5 49.3 ROM leach 5 0.17 55.6 Bagdad Mill 759 0.36 b 0.021 1.79 84.5 59.1 72.1 49.3 ROM leach 205 0.16 28.9 Safford Crushed leach 243 0.44 69.3 Tyrone ROM leach 180 0.30 62.2 Henderson Mill 138 0.180 86.1 Chino Mill 60 0.65 0.03 0.013 0.48 77.1 77.9 35.3 78.5 ROM leach 82 0.39 61.2 Miami ROM leach 91 0.43 63.1 Climax Mill 190 0.158 88.8 Cobre ROM leach 73 0.39 65.4 6,633 South America Cerro Verde Mill 2,809 0.40 0.015 1.16 86.4 52.6 59.5 Crushed leach 162 0.53 76.1 ROM leach 82 0.24 43.3 El Abra Crushed leach 552 0.54 55.5 ROM leach 424 0.32 26.0 Candelaria Mill 411 0.54 0.12 2.05 91.0 79.0 76.3 Ojos del Salado Mill 9 1.12 0.26 3.12 89.8 59.6 66.1 4,449 Indonesia Grasberg open pit Mill 332 0.90 1.03 2.25 83.5 81.6 43.4 Deep Ore Zone Mill 254 0.60 0.67 2.80 84.2 75.9 57.8 Grasberg block cave Mill 1,006 1.03 0.81 3.29 85.5 66.9 60.6 Kucing Liar Mill 441 1.24 1.09 6.90 85.3 45.6 38.4 Deep Mill Level Zone Mill 501 0.89 0.74 4.44 85.9 76.7 62.7 Big Gossan Mill 56 2.25 1.08 14.25 92.2 67.7 64.3 2,590 Africa Tenke Fungurume Agitation leach 135 3.13 0.33 89.4 80.0 Total 13,807 a. Recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. Grade not shown because of rounding. 33 Table of Contents Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves Estimated at December 31, 2009 (continued) Recoverable Reserves Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt FCXs Processing billion million billion million billion Interest Method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. lbs. North America Morenci 85% Mill 1.7 0.03 Crushed leach 3.9 ROM leach 5.2 Sierrita 100% Mill 6.6 0.1 0.73 34.2 ROM leach Bagdad 100% Mill 5.1 0.1 0.26 21.6 ROM leach 0.2 Safford 100% Crushed leach 1.6 Tyrone 100% ROM leach 0.8 Henderson 100% Mill 0.47 Chino 100% Mill 0.7 0.01 0.7 ROM leach 0.4 Miami 100% ROM leach 0.5 Climax 100% Mill 0.58 Cobre 100% ROM leach 0.4 27.1 0.2 2.08 56.5 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 2.3 100% operations 29.4 0.2 2.08 56.5 Consolidated basisa 27.7 0.2 2.07 56.5 Net equity interestb 27.7 0.2 2.07 56.5 South America Cerro Verde 53.56% Mill 21.6 0.50 62.3 Crushed leach 1.4 ROM leach 0.2 El Abra 51% Crushed leach 3.6 ROM leach 0.8 Candelaria 80% Mill 4.5 1.3 20.7 Ojos del Salado 80% Mill 0.2 0.6 32.3 1.3 0.50 83.6 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 1.7 0.2 0.02 4.7 100% operations 34.0 1.5 0.52 88.3 Consolidated basisa 34.0 1.5 0.52 88.3 Net equity interestb 19.6 1.2 0.28 53.7 Indonesia Grasberg open pit (c) Mill 5.5 8.9 10.4 Deep Ore Zone (c) Mill 2.8 4.1 13.2 Grasberg block cave (c) Mill 19.5 17.5 64.5 Kucing Liar (c) Mill 10.3 7.1 37.6 Deep Mill Level Zone (c) Mill 8.4 9.2 44.8 Big Gossan (c) Mill 2.6 1.3 16.5 49.1 48.1 187.0 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 100% operations 49.1 48.1 187.0 Consolidated basisa 34.1 35.5 125.6 Net equity interestb 30.9 32.2 113.9 Africa Tenke Fungurume 57.75% Agitation leach 8.3 0.78 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 0.1 100% operations 8.4 0.78 Consolidated basisa 8.4 0.78 Net equity interestb 4.8 0.45 TOTAL 100% operations 120.9 49.8 2.60 331.8 0.78 TOTAL Consolidated basisa 104.2 37.2 2.59 270.4 0.78 TOTAL Net equity interestb 83.0 33.6 2.35 224.1 0.45 a. Consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. b. Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. c. Our joint venture agreement with Rio Tinto provides that PT Freeport Indonesia will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 34 Table of Contents In defining our open pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. The objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. We use a break even cutoff grade to define the in situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. The break even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. Our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. We value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. Copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi metal ores in terms of one metal. The calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. Our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. The table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of December 31, 2009: Copper Equivalent Cutoff Grades Molybdenum Cutoff Grade Copper Equivalent Cutoff Grade (Percent) (Percent) Crushed or ROM Mill Agitation Leach Leach Mill North America Morenci 0.32 0.32 0.03 N/A Sierrita 0.22 N/A 0.07 N/A Bagdad 0.23 N/A 0.08 N/A Safford N/A 0.12 N/A N/A Tyrone N/A N/A 0.05 N/A Henderson N/A N/A N/A 0.12 Chino 0.31 N/A 0.08 N/A Miami N/A N/A 0.04 N/A Climax N/A N/A N/A 0.06 Cobre N/A N/A 0.17 N/A South America Cerro Verde 0.20 0.24 0.18 N/A El Abra N/A 0.20 0.07 N/A Candelaria 0.22 N/A N/A N/A Ojos del Salado 0.59 N/A N/A N/A Indonesia Grasberg open pit 0.15 N/A N/A N/A Deep Ore Zone 0.65 N/A N/A N/A Grasberg block cave 0.53 N/A N/A N/A Kucing Liar 0.75 N/A N/A N/A Deep Mill Level Zone 0.69 N/A N/A N/A Big Gossan 1.41 N/A N/A N/A Africa Tenke Fungurume N/A 1.01 N/A N/A 35 Table of Contents Drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. Drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. Drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. The following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: Average Drill Hole Spacing Average Spacing in Meters Proven Probable Mining Unit Mill Leach Mill Leach North America Morenci Open Pit 86 86 122 122 Sierrita Open Pit 69 33 115 75 Bagdad Open Pit 86 86 122 122 Safford Open Pit N/A 61 N/A 122 Tyrone Open Pit N/A 86 N/A 86 Henderson Block Cave 38 N/A 85 N/A Chino Open Pit 43 86 86 122 Miami Open Pit N/A 61 N/A 91 Climax Open Pit 61 N/A 122 N/A Cobre Open Pit N/A 61 N/A 91 South America Cerro Verde Open Pit 50 50 100 100 El Abra Open Pit N/A 75 N/A 120 Candelaria Open Pit 35 N/A 70 N/A Ojos del Salado Sublevel Stoping 25 N/A 50 N/A Indonesia Grasberg Open Pit 36 N/A 92 N/A Deep Ore Zone Block Cave 20 N/A 51 N/A Grasberg Block Cave 47 N/A 80 N/A Kucing Liar Block Cave 39 N/A 97 N/A Deep Mill Level Zone Block Cave 21 N/A 89 N/A Big Gossan Open Stope 13 N/A 42 N/A Africa Tenke Fungurume Open Pit N/A 50 N/A 100 36 Table of Contents Production Sequencing The following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing the December 31, 2009, proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body. The chart also shows the term of PT Freeport Indonesias COW. Production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. The ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. In addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. Significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life of mine plans reflected below. 37 Table of Contents Mill and Leach Stockpiles Mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. For mill stockpiles, recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. For leach stockpiles, recovery is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. Because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be extracted into copper concentrate almost immediately. Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small scale laboratory tests, small to large scale column testing (which simulates the production scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. Processes and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. Following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of December 31, 2009: Recoverable Copper in Stockpiles Recoverable Millions of Average Recovery Copper Metric Tons Grade (%) Rate (%) (Billion Pounds) Mill stockpiles Cerro Verde 72 0.46 81.9 0.6 Candelaria 91 0.39 82.7 0.7 Subtotal 163 0.42 82.3 1.3 Leach stockpiles Morenci 4,581 0.25 1.8 0.4 Sierrita 648 0.15 13.1 0.3 Bagdad 391 0.28 3.0 0.1 Safford 69 0.43 27.9 0.2 Tyrone 967 0.28 2.2 0.1 Chino 1,623 0.25 12.2 1.1 Miami 433 0.38 1.5 0.1 Cerro Verde 354 0.54 2.7 0.1 El Abra 278 0.33 17.5 0.3 Tenke Fungurume 4 0.98 86.1 0.1 Subtotal 9,348 0.28 5.1 2.8 Total 100% basis 4.1 Consolidated basisa 4.0 Net equity interestb 3.4 a. Consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partners interest in the Morenci mine in North America. b. Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 38 Table of Contents MINERALIZED MATERIAL We hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. However, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. Mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. Such a deposit may not qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. Estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.00 per pound of copper, $750 per ounce of gold and $12.00 per pound of molybdenum. 39 Table of Contents Mineralized Material Estimated at December 31, 2009 Milling Material Leaching Material Total Mineralized Material Million Million Million FCXs metric Copper Gold Moly metric Copper metric Copper Gold Moly Interest tons % g/t % tons % tons % g/t % North America Morenci 85% 342 0.41 0.016 1,965 0.22 2,307 0.25 0.002 Sierritaa 100% 2,312 0.20 0.022 37 0.15 2,349 0.20 0.022 Bagdad 100% 589 0.35 0.019 118 0.13 707 0.31 0.016 Saffordb 100% 643 0.45 0.08 0.004 103 0.29 746 0.43 0.07 0.004 Tyrone 100% 135 0.31 135 0.31 Henderson 100% 65 0.131 65 0.131 Chino 100% 462 0.42 0.010 71 0.29 533 0.40 0.009 Miami 100% 41 0.45 41 0.45 Climax 100% 528 0.165 528 0.165 Cobre 100% 44 0.55 12 0.28 56 0.49 Ajoc 100% 639 0.36 0.07 0.007 639 0.36 0.07 0.007 Cochise/Bisbee 100% 301 0.44 301 0.44 Lone Star 100% 767 0.44 767 0.44 Sanchez 100% 190 0.28 190 0.28 Tohono 100% 247 0.68 280 0.67 527 0.68 Twin Buttesd 100% 619 0.46 0.026 67 0.22 686 0.43 0.024 South America Cerro Verde 53.56% 1,007 0.37 0.014 4 0.32 1,011 0.37 0.014 El Abra 51% 762 0.44 330 0.26 1,092 0.39 Candelariae 80% 81 0.49 0.11 81 0.49 0.11 Indonesia Grasberg districtf 54.38%k 2,622 0.59 0.53 2,622 0.59 0.53 Africa Tenke Fungurumeg 57.75% 62 3.38 21 2.84 83 3.24 Kisanfuh 95% 57 2.30 50 3.01 107 2.63 Total 100% basis 11,081 4,492 15,573 Consolidated basisi 9,981 4,198 14,179 Net equity interestj 8,948 4,023 12,971 a. Sierrita stated tonnage also includes 1.2 grams of silver per metric ton. b. Safford stated tonnage also includes 1.4 grams of silver per metric ton. c. Ajo stated tonnage also includes 0.9 grams of silver per metric ton. d. Twin Buttes stated tonnage also includes 5.2 grams of silver per metric ton. e. Candelaria stated tonnage also includes 1.7 grams of silver per metric ton. f. Grasberg district stated tonnage also includes 3.4 grams of silver per metric ton. g. Tenke Fungurume stated tonnage also includes 0.30 percent cobalt. h. Kisanfu stated tonnage also includes 1.08 percent cobalt. i. Consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our joint ventures partners interest in the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. j. Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. k. FCXs interest in the Grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. 40 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding anticipated production volumes, unit net cash costs, sales volumes, ore grades, milling rates, commodity prices, development and capital expenditures, mine production and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, environmental reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities and expenditures, litigation expense and results, dividend payments, reserve estimates, exploration efforts and results, operating cash flows, copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, deferred intercompany profit impacts on financial results, and anticipated political, economic and social conditions in our areas of operations. We undertake no obligation, to update or revise any forward looking statements. Readers are cautioned that forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those projected, anticipated or assumed in the forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements include the following. Financial risks Extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and or molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. Fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or molybdenum can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and equity securities. Our earnings and cash flows are affected significantly by the market prices of copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. The world market prices of these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. For information about movements in the market prices of these commodities, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Copper, Gold and Molybdenum Markets. An extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could (1) adversely affect our earnings and cash flows, (2) adversely affect our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and (3) depress the trading prices of our common and preferred stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. In addition, substantially all of our copper concentrate sales and some of our copper cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) prices. Accordingly, in times of falling copper prices, our revenues are negatively affected by lower prices received for contracts priced at current market rates and also from a decrease related to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of rising copper prices, the opposite occurs. There continues to be uncertainty in the global economy, which could negatively affect the market prices of commodities, including the metals that we produce. If market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. We may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses. World copper prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, LME daily closing spot prices ranged from $1.26 to $4.08 per pound for copper. The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. World copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world; available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories; sales by holders and producers of copper; demand for industrial products containing copper; 41 Table of Contents investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity; the availability and cost of substitute materials; and currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar. World gold prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, the daily closing prices on the London spot market ranged from $608 to $1,213 per ounce for gold. London gold prices closed at $1,079 per ounce on January 29, 2010. World gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China; global or regional political or economic crises; the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar and other currencies; expectations with respect to the rate of inflation; interest rates; purchases and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other holders; demand for jewelry containing gold; and investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity. Molybdenum prices also fluctuate widely. Molybdenum demand depends primarily on the global steel industry, which uses the metal as a hardening and corrosion inhibiting agent. Approximately 80 percent of molybdenum production is used in this application. The remainder is used in specialty chemical applications such as catalysts, water treatment agents and lubricants. Approximately 50 percent of global molybdenum production is a by product of copper mining, which is relatively insensitive to molybdenum prices. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, the Metals Week Dealer Oxide weekly average price for molybdenum ranged from $7.83 to $33.88 per pound. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price was $14.88 per pound on January 29, 2010. Molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply; rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel; the volume of molybdenum produced as a by product of copper production; inventory levels; currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar; and production costs of U.S. and foreign competitors. The agreements governing our indebtedness require us to meet certain financial tests and other covenants and as a result may limit our flexibility in the operation of our business and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. We incurred significant debt to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid to acquire Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge). As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was $6.3 billion. The agreements governing our indebtedness restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability to: 42 Table of Contents incur additional indebtedness; engage in transactions with affiliates; create liens on our assets; make payments in respect of equity issued by us or our subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on our common stock; make investments in, or loans, to entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; sell assets; merge with or into other companies; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into unrelated businesses; enter into agreements or arrangements that restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other distributions; prepay indebtedness; and enter into hedging transactions other than in the ordinary course of business. In April 2008, Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings raised our corporate credit rating and the ratings on our unsecured debt to BBB (investment grade). As a result of the upgrade of our unsecured debt to investment grade by S&P, the restrictions contained in our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes on incurring debt, making restricted payments and selling assets were suspended. In addition, our senior revolving credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests at any time that borrowings are outstanding under these facilities, including a leverage ratio test (Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as those terms are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 5.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter) and a secured leverage ratio test (Total Secured Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as those terms are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 3.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter). During periods in which copper, gold or molybdenum prices or production volumes, or other conditions reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors, we may not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants. Our senior revolving credit facilities and our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes contain covenants that limit our ability to make certain payments. These restrictions vary among the instruments, but generally limit our ability to pay certain dividends on common and preferred stock, repurchase or redeem common and preferred equity, prepay subordinated debt and make certain investments. To the extent the rating is downgraded below investment grade, these covenants in our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes would again become effective. At December 31, 2009, the most restrictive of these covenants related to restricted payments allowed for payments up to approximately $7.6 billion. Our obligations under our senior credit facilities are (1) guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (2) secured by a pledge of (a) 100 percent of the equity in substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (b) 66.5 percent of the equity in substantially all of our first tier foreign subsidiaries. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or any agreement governing our other indebtedness, after giving effect to any applicable grace period, may result in an event of default. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which may trigger cross acceleration or cross default provisions in other debt agreements. We would not be able to fully repay when due borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. 43 Table of Contents If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit agreements at maturity or in the event of a default, the lenders under our senior credit facilities could terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding (together with accrued interest and other fees) immediately due and payable and institute foreclosure proceedings against the collateral. Any such actions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under U.S. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions taken under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent state regulations. The failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. We are required by U.S. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. These laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance. In July 2009, EPA published a Priority Notice of Action identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements. It is uncertain how the new requirements will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations. As of December 31, 2009, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs totaled approximately $710 million, of which approximately $414 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. Our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations in New Mexico and Arizona depends on our ability to meet financial tests. Certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state approved ratings service. We are currently rated investment grade by Standard & Poors and Fitch, but are not rated investment grade by Moodys. If we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these alternate tests, in which case, the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance to fully satisfy our financial assurance obligations, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. Depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. Issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. Failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. As of December 31, 2009, we have limited financial assurance obligations associated with CERCLA related actions, although EPA and certain states are currently considering increasing the use of financial assurance requirements. For additional information, see the risk factor Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations below. We need significant amounts of cash to service our debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding principal amount of our debt was $6.3 billion. We must generate sufficient amounts of cash to service and repay our debt. Our ability to generate cash will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facilities or from the capital markets in amounts sufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund other liquidity needs. In addition, disruptions in the credit and financial markets, such as those beginning in late 2008, can constrain our access to capital and increase its cost. The inability to service, repay or refinance our indebtedness could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. If future financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest needed capital for our development and exploration programs, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 44 Table of Contents Movements in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could negatively affect our operating results. Substantially all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs, and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevos sol and euro. As a result, our results are adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. At December 31, 2009, approximately 19 percent of our outstanding debt was subject to variable interest rates. Increases in these rates will increase our interest costs and reduce our profits and operating cash flows. From time to time, we may implement currency or interest rate hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange or interest rates. However, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange or interest payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. Operational risks The volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. Our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with established mining industry practices and standards, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be recovered economically and legally based on currently available data. Estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are subject to considerable uncertainty. Ore bodies may not conform to standard geological expectations, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. Because ore bodies do not contain uniform grades and types of minerals, our metal recovery rates will vary from time to time. Additionally, because the determination of reserves is based partially on estimates of future selling prices, a sustained decrease in such prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. These factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. There are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from stockpiles. The quantity of copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. The volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and recovered copper from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. We must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. Our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long term viability. Produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. Open pit operations at Grasberg are expected to continue through mid 2016, at which time underground mining operations are scheduled to begin at our Grasberg Block Cave mine, which is under development. Production at the DOZ mine is expected to continue through 2020 and we plan to ramp up production at our Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) block cave mine, which is currently under development, beginning in 2015. In addition, oxide copper production at El Abra is expected to decline over the next several years and production from the sulfide ore is expected to begin in 2012. Exploration is highly speculative in nature. Our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. 45 Table of Contents Development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects, including our significant future development of underground mines at the Grasberg minerals district and our development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. Moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. Thus it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. New development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. These development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. It is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in invested capital. The development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following: Unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; Challenges related to hiring and training the personnel required for the ramp up in underground mining activities; Larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and Unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods. Some of these risks could result in a delay to production start up and a loss or reduction in minable tons. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. Mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. These operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following: earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; problems associated with the construction and management of large impoundments containing tailings or other viscous or semi solid materials, some of which also contain mineral and chemical contaminants, such as structural failures or leakages; 46 Table of Contents interruption of energy supply; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; metallurgical and other processing problems; unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights and shortages of water to which we have rights; adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government permits; delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; labor disputes; and the inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. The failure to adequately manage some of these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both on and outside our operating sites, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in production. Continuation of our mining production is dependent on the availability of a sufficient water supply to support our mining operations. Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Our operations in North and South America are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and defeat claims adverse to our current water uses in legal proceedings. At our U.S. operations, under state law, our water rights give us only the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. In Arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which for over 30 years the State of Arizona has been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims in two of the states largest river systems that affect four of our operating mines (Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford). These legal proceedings may also affect our Arizona mine at Bagdad. Groundwater is not subject to adjudication in Arizona, but is subject to the doctrine of reasonable use, which requires balancing the utility of the use against the gravity of the harm to others who have rights in the same aquifer; however, wells may be subject to adjudication to the extent they are found to produce or affect surface water. In Colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the Climax mine. Our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated in New Mexico. In South America, water for our mining operations at Candelaria and Ojos del Salado is drawn from the Copiap River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, ongoing studies are assessing the available supply for our mining operations at these sites. Due to anticipated shortages in this water resource, plans are in place to develop new supplementary water supplies. Construction is under way to convey treated effluent from a nearby sewage treatment plant to the mine and permitting has begun to construct both a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater and a pipeline to convey the desalinated water to the Candelaria mine. Water for our El Abra mining operations in Chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn pursuant to regulatory approval. At El Abra, hydrogeologic studies are ongoing to obtain regulatory approval for the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn to process sulfide ore. We expect that the amount of water needed to develop the sulfide ore project will represent a significant increase over current volumes used in processing the oxide ore. El Abra is working closely with regulatory authorities to meet these requirements. Failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approval or receipt of approval in a less than desired amount could adversely affect our development of the sulfide ore project as planned. 47 Table of Contents Water for our Cerro Verde mining operations in Peru comes from a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Our Cerro Verde mining operations recently constructed several new water reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed to obtain more water rights and to expand storage capacity. Due to occasional drought and possible effects of climate change reducing precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our operations as currently planned. Although each operation currently has sufficient water rights and claims to cover its operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. The loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. An interruption of energy supply could adversely affect our mining operations. Our mining operations and development projects require significant amounts of energy. Our principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. Our South America mining operations receive electrical power under long term contracts with local energy companies. Our Africa mining operation has entered into long term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with the state owned electric utility company serving the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). A disruption in the transmission of energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure, or the termination of any of our energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect our operations. Increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. Energy represents a significant portion of our production costs. An inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. Our production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, explosives and diluents. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. Increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. Our Grasberg mining operations are located in steep mountainous terrain in a very remote area in Indonesia. Because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. On October 9, 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the Grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. On December 12, 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. The events caused us to alter our short term mine sequencing plans, which adversely affected our 2003 and 2004 production. We resumed normal production activities in the second quarter of 2004. On March 23, 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting PT Freeport Indonesias mining facilities. Three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. The material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. As a result of investigations by PT Freeport Indonesia and the Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. The existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. 48 Table of Contents On September 10, 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our Grasberg open pit. There were no injuries or property damage. The event caused a delay in our access to the high grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods. No assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. Our Africa mining operation, Tenke Fungurume, involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the DRC. Our Africa mining operation is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to additional challenges, including: severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria and cholera. For example, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from our Africa mining operation approximately 1,900 miles to ports in South Africa. Our Africa mining operation and future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. Environmental risks Our domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs. Our ongoing mining operations and exploration activities, both in the U.S. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs and we expect these costs to continue to increase in the future because of increased regulatory enforcement, increased demand for remediation services and shortages of equipment, supplies, labor and other factors. The Federal Clean Air Act has had a significant impact, particularly on our domestic smelter and power plants. Any change in waste management regulation of the mining industry under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act could have a significant impact, both on operational compliance and closure costs. In addition, environmental laws and regulations may change in ways that could substantially increase compliance costs or adversely affect our operations or expansion opportunities. In addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. Freeport McMoRan Corporation (FMC, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the U.S. for more than a century. Activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before American industrial companies understood the long term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. With the passage of CERCLA in 1980, companies like Phelps Dodge became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. That liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other 49 Table of Contents owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. As a result, because of our acquisition of Phelps Dodge in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the U.S., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. We are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. As of December 31, 2009, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the U.S. in approximately 25 states. We incurred aggregate environmental capital expenditure and other environmental costs, (including our joint venture partners shares), to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $289 million in 2009, $377 million in 2008 and $280 million in 2007. For 2010, we expect to incur approximately $426 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2010 operating budget. At December 31, 2009, $1.5 billion of environmental obligations were recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. Our environmental obligation estimates are based upon (1) our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago, (2) our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake the estimated costs of those activities, which are subject to varying interpretations, and (3) our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. Significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. The actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. Refer to Note 14 for more information on our environmental obligations. An adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us. As described in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, we are a defendant in numerous and in some cases significant litigation involving environmental cleanup costs, alleged environmental toxic torts and interpretations of environmental regulations. An adverse ruling in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. Our domestic operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined land reclamation obligations. These requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. In general, our domestic mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. In addition, our international mines are subject to various mine closure and mined land reclamation laws, and there have recently been significant changes in closure and reclamation programs in both Peru and Chile that impose more stringent obligations on us for closure and reclamation. Updated closure plans for our three Chilean operations were submitted to the government in February 2009 and the Peruvian government approved Cerro Verdes closure plan in October 2009. Our asset retirement obligations (AROs), determined as required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. totaled $731 million (including approximately $46 million for the current portion) at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, we had accrued reclamation and closure costs of $351 million for our New Mexico operations, $187 million for our Arizona operations and $102 million for PT Freeport Indonesia. ARO cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, mine plans, cost of inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. 50 Table of Contents Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. Many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and therefore potentially to climate change. In 2009, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were 8.9 million metric tons, nearly equally divided between direct and indirect emissions. Most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. Indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. Approximately 19 percent of our direct emissions are in North America and 68 percent in Indonesia, and approximately 60 percent of our indirect emissions are in North America and 38 percent in South America. A number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes regarding greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in the U.S., the EPA issued final regulations in September 2009 requiring mandatory monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in specified circumstances, commencing in 2010. Our Morenci mine, Miami smelter and El Paso refinery will likely be required to report their emissions under this program. In December 2009, the EPA issued findings under the Clean Air Act that the current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and welfare. While the findings themselves do not impose any requirements, they form the basis for future regulation of our greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (ACES), also known as the Waxman Markey Bill, which proposes to impose a cap and trade program aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Several states have also initiated action on their own or as part of regional organizations, such as the Western Climate Initiative, to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. The U.S. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our U.S. operations. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the Protocol. Although the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012, has not been ratified by the U.S., the U.S. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. We actively pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2009, we formed a multi departmental task force to focus our efforts on these topics. In addition, since 2006, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. From a medium and long term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase, if they incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Our operating, inactive and historical U.S. mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations. A number of federal and state agencies are considering new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. For example, the EPA could promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (TENORM) and their impacts at mining operations. In addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. Radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations. Consequently, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation. The impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain. 51 Table of Contents Our Indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. Mining operations on the scale of our operations in Papua involve significant environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper , gold and silver bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the Government of Indonesia, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. Lateral levees have been engineered and constructed to limit and help contain the footprint of tailings impact in the lowlands. Another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process in order to reach the ore. In the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can have a negative impact on the environment. Certain Indonesian governmental officials have from time to time raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. Because our mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. In connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the Indonesian government, we committed to perform a one time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. We completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the Indonesian government in December 2002. We developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the Indonesian government, academia and non governmental organizations. The risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. Since 2005, PT Freeport Indonesia has participated in the Government of Indonesias PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating) program. In October 2009, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment announced the latest results of its PROPER environmental management audit, and gave PT Freeport Indonesia a Blue rating acknowledging PT Freeport Indonesias environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in Indonesia and also making several recommendations for improvement. International risks Our International operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. We are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the U.S. We conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Peru, Chile and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries. Such risks include (1) renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, (2) expropriation or nationalization of property, (3) changes in a foreign countrys laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, (4) political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, (5) foreign exchange controls, and (6) the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. Our insurance does not cover most losses caused by these risks. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the U.S. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. 52 Table of Contents In December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia was notified by the Large Taxpayers Office of the Government of Indonesia that PT Freeport Indonesia is obligated to pay value added taxes on certain goods imported after the year 2000. The amount of taxes and penalties would be significant. PT Freeport Indonesia believes that pursuant to the terms of its Contract of Work, it is only required to pay value added taxes on these types of goods imported after December 30, 2009. PT Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the applicable government authorities to resolve this matter. In December 2008, our Cerro Verde mining operation in Peru was notified by Peruvian revenue authorities of their intent to assess mining royalties related to minerals processed by the Cerro Verde concentrator. In August 2009, Cerro Verde received a formal assessment in the amount of approximately $50 million in connection with its alleged obligations for mining royalties and fines for the period from October 2006 to December 2007. Cerro Verde is challenging this assessment as it believes that royalty obligations with respect to all minerals extracted are governed by its existing stability agreement, regardless of the processing method applied after extraction, and believes that it owes no royalties with respect to minerals processed through its concentrator. We are working cooperatively with the Peruvian authorities to resolve this matter. Because our Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties. Indonesia has faced political, economic and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. In particular, several separatist groups are opposing Indonesian rule over the province of Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. In response, Indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective January 1, 2001. The manner in which the new laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social, economic and political instability in Papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. Maintaining a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among Indonesias most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a Contract of Work with the Indonesian government. Partially because of their significance to Indonesias economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the Indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. Since July 2009, there has been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex (including an incident in January 2010). In connection with these incidents, there have been three fatalities (including one PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and has expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and of our operations. The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. In response to these events, PT Freeport Indonesia is currently reviewing security plans with the Indonesian authorities. Grasberg operated at reduced mining and milling rates during a four day period from April 18, 2007 to April 21, 2007, as a result of peaceful protests by certain workers regarding benefits. The protests ended on April 21 with an agreement on a framework for minimum wages for its workers and Grasberg returned to normal operations. The impacts to production were not significant. Illegal miners have continued to operate along the river designated to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in PT Freeport Indonesias government approved tailings management area. The illegal miners who have trespassed from time to time in the area of our facilities have clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. In 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the Grasberg mine and mill in protest, and PT Freeport Indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. 53 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt our Indonesian operations, or whether similar incidents may occur in other countries that could affect our other operations. If additional protests or other disruptive incidents occur at any of our facilities, they could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. We do not expect to mine all of our Indonesian ore reserves before the initial term of our Contract of Work in Indonesia expires. All of our Indonesian proven and probable ore reserves, including the Grasberg deposit, are located in Block A. The initial term of our Contract of Work covering these ore reserves expires at the end of 2021. We can extend this term for two successive 10 year periods, subject to the approval of the Indonesian government, which under our Contract of Work cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Our ore reserves reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 (i.e., through the expiration of the two 10 year extensions) and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10 year extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the current term of our Contract of Work, and there can be no assurance that the Indonesian government will approve the extensions. Prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine approximately 33 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at December 31, 2009, representing approximately 39 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias share of recoverable copper reserves and approximately 52 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. In 2008, Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia. In 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2008 mining law and certain provisions address existing contracts of work. The regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to any extension periods of contracts of work even though our Contract of Work provides for two ten year extension periods under the existing terms of the Contract of Work. Our Contracts of Work in Indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work and other Contracts of Work in which we have an interest were entered into under Indonesias 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. Our Contracts of Work can be terminated by the Government of Indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. Certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our Contract of Work. Although our Contract of Work grants to PT Freeport Indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the Contract of Work, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on PT Freeport Indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements. At times, certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the Government of Indonesia prior to May 1998 (i.e., during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work, which was signed in December 1991. We cannot assure you that the validity of, or our compliance with, the Contracts of Work will not be challenged for political or other reasons. PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work and our other Contracts of Work require that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. Consequently, if a dispute arises under the Contracts of Work, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory. Indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with Indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the Contracts of Work. In 2006, the Government of Indonesia created a joint team for Periodic Evaluation on Implementation of the PT FI Contract of Work (COW) to conduct an evaluation every five years. The team consists of five working groups, whose members are from relevant ministries or agencies, covering production, state revenues, community development, environmental 54 Table of Contents issues and security issues. We have conducted numerous meetings with these groups. The joint team has indicated that it will issue a report. While we believe that we comply with PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work in all material respects, we cannot assure you that the report will support that conclusion. Separately, the Indonesian House of Representatives created a working committee on PT Freeport Indonesia. Members of this group have also visited our operations and held a number of hearings in Jakarta. We will continue to work with these groups to respond to their questions about our operations and our compliance with PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work. Any suspension of required activities under our Contracts of Work requires the consent of the Indonesian government. Our Contracts of Work permit us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the Indonesian government. These requests are subject to the approval of the Indonesian government and are renewable annually. If we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the Contract of Work or potentially be declared in default. Moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the Indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the Contract of Work. We suspended our field exploration activities outside of Block A in recent years because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an Indonesian Forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open pit mining in forest preservation areas. In 2001, we requested and received from the Government of Indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the Contracts of Work in all areas outside of Block A. Recent Indonesian legislation permits open pit mining in PT Freeport Indonesias Block B area, subject to certain requirements. Following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective Contract of Work areas outside of Block A. Our Tenke Fungurume mining operation is located in the Katanga province of the DRC, and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the DRC. During 2009, we completed construction activities for the initial Tenke Fungurume development project, which is located in the DRC. Since 1960, the DRC has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy towards foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. Our ability to continue mining operations and future development is currently subject to an ongoing review of our mining convention which was part of a review of all mining contracts by the Ministry of Mines (Ministry) in the DRC, the outcome of which cannot be predicted. We received notification on February 20, 2008, that the Ministry wishes to renegotiate several material provisions of our mining concessions. We believe that the terms of the concessions are fair and that they were negotiated transparently and are legally binding. However, we cannot predict whether the Government of the DRC will respect our contract rights. In July 2009, Tenke Fungurume was advised that the Minister of Justice in the DRC authorized an inquiry regarding the alleged misappropriation of public funds in connection with the securing of labor and immigration authorizations and the payment of associated fees for the Tenke Fungurume project. Several government officials and three Tenke Fungurume employees were arrested. In October 2009, the three Tenke Fungurume employees were tried and acquitted. One government official, the head of immigration in the Katanga province, was sentenced to five years imprisonment on charges of embezzlement. The office of the Attorney General of the DRC has filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, the implications of which are not yet clear. In July 2009, Tenke Fungurume entered into a settlement agreement with DRC tax authorities in connection with an administrative audit regarding the payment of fees for work permits and visas for its foreign workers and subcontractors, including short term workers. Pursuant to the agreement, which covers the period from January 2007 to the date of the settlement, Tenke Fungurume paid approximately $16 million in fees and penalties. The procedures associated with obtaining labor and immigration authorizations for short term workers on a timely basis are not clearly established in the DRC, and Tenke Fungurume continues to work proactively and cooperatively with the tax authorities to establish approved procedures for doing so consistent with its mining convention and local law. 55 Table of Contents Other political, economic and social risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include: political risks associated with the relatively recent establishment of the present government; cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government; legal and regulatory uncertainties, governmental corruption and bribery; royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; security risks due to the remote location in the southern DRC and violence in the northeastern provinces of the DRC; risk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. Consequently, our Tenke Fungurume mining operations and future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. On July 17, 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the JW Marriott and Ritz Carlton hotels in Jakarta, Indonesia, that are reported to have killed nine people and injured 53 others. Two of our Indonesian based executives were injured in the incident. On July 8, 2009, a small group of individuals created a disturbance on the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex and vandalized vehicles and small buildings. There were no injuries. For more information about a series of shooting incidents near our Grasberg mining complex, see the risk factor Because our Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties above. On August 31, 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near Tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of PT Freeport Indonesias personnel reside. The assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in Tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to PT Freeport Indonesia. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigated the incident, which resulted in the U.S. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the Free Papua Movement/National Freedom Force. In January 2006, Indonesian police, accompanied by FBI agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other Papuans. In November 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the August 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack. On October 12, 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the Indonesian province of Bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. Indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. On August 5, 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia. On September 9, 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. On October 1, 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in Bali. The same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. In November 2005, Indonesian police raided a house in East Java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. Our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but PT Freeport Indonesias corporate office in Jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the Australian embassy. In addition to the Bali, JW Marriott Hotel and Australian embassy bombings, there have been anti American demonstrations in certain sections of Indonesia reportedly led by radical Islamic activists. 56 Table of Contents No assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. If there were to be additional violence, it could materially and adversely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict at this time. Other risks If market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long lived assets may be further impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the then current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long lived assets and goodwill for impairment. As a result, we recorded impairment charges totaling $16.9 billion ($12.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders). Additionally, the declines in copper and molybdenum prices in late 2008 resulted in lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory charges totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders) in 2008. Additional LCM charges associated with molybdenum inventories totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders) were recorded in first quarter 2009. Declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, may cause us to record additional LCM inventory adjustments and may also require us to further write down the carrying value of long lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. Unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are a party to the litigation described in our SEC filings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at Superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. If any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation, is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our future projects. A loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. In addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the U.S. In addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries creditors, including any trade creditors and preferred stockholders. 57 Table of Contents Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. These provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. These provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by Phelps Dodge and its affiliates. We do not believe that our potential liability in any such proceeding should have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We maintain liability insurance to cover some, but not all, potential liabilities normally incident to the ordinary course of our business as well as other insurance coverage customary in our business, with coverage limits that we deem prudent. Environmental Proceedings Pinal Creek. We are a party to litigation entitled Pinal Creek Group, et al. v. Newmont Mining Corporation, et al., United States District Court, District of Arizona, Case No. CIV 91 1764 PHX DAE (LOA), filed on May 1, 1991. The Pinal Creek site located near Miami, Arizona, was listed under the Arizona Department of Environmental Qualitys (ADEQ) Water Quality Assurance Revolving Fund program in 1989 for contamination in the shallow alluvial aquifers within the Pinal Creek drainage near Miami, Arizona. Since that time, environmental remediation has been performed by members of the Pinal Creek Group (PCG), consisting of Phelps Dodge Miami, Inc. (Miami) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Freeport McMoRan Corporation, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation) and two other companies. In 1998, the District Court approved a Consent Decree between the PCG members and the state of Arizona resolving all matters related to an enforcement action contemplated by the state of Arizona against the PCG members with respect to groundwater contamination. The Consent Decree committed the PCG members to complete the remediation work outlined in the Consent Decree, and that work continues at this time and is expected to continue for many years in the future. 58 Table of Contents Remediation costs have been paid pursuant to an interim cost sharing allocation among the members of the PCG, with Miamis interim allocation being approximately two thirds. However, there have been significant disagreements among the members of the PCG regarding the cost allocation, with other members alleging in the federal court proceeding that Miami should be responsible for substantially all of the costs. In February 2010, we settled those disagreements and the associated litigation. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, Miami paid $40 million to other members of the PCG to settle the allocation of previously incurred costs, and agreed to take full responsibility for future groundwater remediation at the Pinal Creek site, with limited exceptions. The settlement did not result in an adjustment of the related environmental reserve reflected in our financial statements. Blackwell, Oklahoma Litigation. On April 14, 2008, a purported class action was filed in the District Court of Kay County, Oklahoma against us and several of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Blackwell Zinc Company (BZC) (Coffey, et al., v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc., et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2008 68). This suit alleges that the operations of BZCs zinc smelter in Blackwell, Oklahoma, from 1918 to 1974 resulted in contamination of the soils and groundwater in Blackwell and the surrounding area. Unspecified compensatory and punitive damages are sought on behalf of the putative class members, consisting of current and former residents and property owners, for alleged diminution in property values. There is also a request for an order compelling remediation of allegedly contaminated properties and the establishment of a monetary fund to monitor the present and future health of the putative class members. On December 7, 2009, 18 individuals filed a related suit (Brown et al. v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2009 213), alleging personal injuries resulting from exposure to lead and seeking compensatory and punitive damages. We intend to defend both of these matters vigorously. For more information about our remediation activities in Blackwell, Oklahoma, refer to Note 14. On October 15, 2009, the City of Blackwell and the Blackwell Municipal Authority filed an action against us and several of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including BZC (City of Blackwell et al. v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc. et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2009 15B). The suit alleged that the operations of BZCs zinc smelter resulted in contamination of soils and groundwater in the City of Blackwell. The plaintiffs alleged nuisance, trespass, negligence, and unjust enrichment and claimed unspecified actual, equitable (for unjust enrichment) and punitive damages. In February 2010, we reached a partial settlement with the City of Blackwell and the Blackwell Municipal Authority by paying $54 million to settle all of the claims except for future damages relating to the potential failure of our groundwater remediation system (which is under construction) to prevent contamination from entering the City of Blackwells wastewater treatment system. Arizona Department of Environmental Quality Morenci. In October 2008, Freeport McMoRan Morenci Inc. (Morenci) notified state and federal authorities that it accidentally released electrolyte solution from its solution extraction and electrowinning (SX/EW) operation into Lower Chase Creek, an ephemeral stream that is normally dry. Morenci conducted a thorough cleanup of the spill and later provided authorities with information on corrective actions implemented in response to the spill. On January 16, 2009, Morenci received Notices of Violation (NOVs) from the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality alleging that the spill resulted in violations of the Arizona Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and Aquifer Protection Programs. Morenci also received a letter dated January 28, 2010, from the Arizona Attorney Generals office advising Morenci that the State of Arizona intends to file a civil enforcement action. Morenci intends to meet with the Arizona Attorney Generals office to discuss a potential settlement and expects to reach an agreement that includes payment of an appropriate civil penalty, which may exceed $100,000, and possible additional corrective actions to those previously implemented. Asbestos Claims Since approximately 1990, Phelps Dodge and various subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a large number of lawsuits claiming personal injury from exposure to asbestos contained in electrical wire products produced or marketed by Phelps Dodge affiliates many years ago, or from asbestos contained in buildings and facilities located at properties owned or operated by Phelps Dodge affiliates. Water Rights Water law in the western U.S. is generally based on the doctrine of prior appropriation (first in time, first in right) and permits the water right holder the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use, at a designated location. Our operations in the western U.S. require water for mining, ore processing and related 59 Table of Contents support facilities. Continuous operation of these mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims. The loss of water rights, in whole or in part, could have a significant adverse affect on our mining operations. Two water rights adjudications have been initiated in the State of Arizona in order to quantify and prioritize all surface water claims in two of the States river systems that include four of our operating mines (Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford). These legal proceedings may also affect our Bagdad, Arizona mine. These adjudications have been under way for many years, and we cannot predict when they will be concluded. In Re the General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Little Colorado Water System and Sources, Apache County, Superior Court, No. 6417, filed on or about February 17, 1978. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the State of Arizona; the Salt River Project; the Arizona Public Service Company; the Navajo Nation, the Hopi Indian Tribe; the San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe; and the United States on its own behalf, on behalf of those Indian tribes, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe. In Re The General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Gila River System and Sources, Maricopa County, Superior Court, Cause Nos. W 1 (Salt), W 2 (Verde), W 3 (Upper Gila), and W 4 (San Pedro), filed on February 17, 1978. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the State of Arizona; the Gila Valley Irrigation District; the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District; the Salt River Project; the San Carlos Apache Tribe; the Gila River Indian Community; and the United States on behalf of those Tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe, the Fort McDowell Mohave Apache Indian Community, the Salt River Pima Maricopa Indian Community, and the Payson Community of Yavapai Apache Indians. In 1998, we entered into a water rights settlement agreement with the Gila River Indian Community (GRIC), which was later included in a comprehensive water rights settlement under the Arizona Water Settlements Act of 2004. The GRIC settlement is subject to contingencies, and the comprehensive settlement has been challenged by other parties. If we are unable to resolve the contingencies in the GRIC settlement and defeat the third party challenges, our water rights in the Gila River watershed could be diminished, and our operations at Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford could be adversely affected. Prior to January 1, 1983, various Indian tribes filed suits in the U.S. District Court in Arizona claiming superior rights to water being used by many other water users, including us, and claiming damages for prior use in derogation of their allegedly superior rights. These federal proceedings have been stayed pending the Arizona Superior Court adjudications. United States v. Gila Valley Irrigation District, United States District Court, District of Arizona, was initiated in 1925 by the United States to settle conflicting claims to water rights in portions of the Gila River watershed. A decree settling the claims of various parties was entered in 1935, after Morenci had been dismissed from the case without prejudice. In 1988, the Gila River Indian Community intervened, challenging uses of water in the Gila River watershed, which may impact water that we have the right to divert annually from Eagle Creek, Chase Creek or the San Francisco River for operation of our Morenci mine, pursuant to decreed rights and an agreement between us and the Gila Valley Irrigation District. Our Morenci operations also purchased farm lands with water rights in 1997, 1998 and 2008 that could be affected by the outcome of this proceeding. Impairment of our water claims in the Gila River watershed could adversely affect the operations of our Morenci and Safford mines. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Not applicable. 60 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant. Certain information as of February 12, 2010, about our executive officers is set forth in the following table and accompanying text: Name Age Position or Office James R. Moffett 71 Chairman of the Board Richard C. Adkerson 63 Director, President and Chief Executive Officer Michael J. Arnold 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Kathleen L. Quirk 46 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer James R. Moffett has served as Chairman of the Board since May 1992. Mr. Moffett previously served as the Chief Executive Officer from July 1995 until December 2003. He is also Co Chairman of the Board of McMoRan Exploration Co. (McMoRan). Richard C. Adkerson has served as President since January 2008 and also from April 1997 to March 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2003 and a director since October 2006. Mr. Adkerson previously served as Chief Financial Officer from October 2000 to December 2003. Mr. Adkerson is also Co Chairman of the Board of McMoRan. Michael J. Arnold has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007 and Chief Administrative Officer since December 2003. Kathleen L. Quirk has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007, Chief Financial Officer since December 2003 and Treasurer since February 2000. Ms. Quirk previously served as Senior Vice President from December 2003 to March 2007. Ms. Quirk has also served as the Senior Vice President of McMoRan since April 2002 and as Treasurer since January 2000. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Common Stock Our common shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol FCX. The FCX share price is reported daily in the financial press under FMCG in most listings of NYSE securities. NYSE composite tape common share price ranges during 2009 and 2008 follow: 2009 2008 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 43.45 $ 21.16 $ 107.37 $ 68.96 Second Quarter 61.55 36.60 127.24 93.00 Third Quarter 73.43 43.19 117.11 51.21 Fourth Quarter 87.35 63.00 56.75 15.70 As of February 12, 2010, there were approximately 18,000 holders of record of our common stock. 61 Table of Contents Common Stock Dividends In February 2003, the Board of Directors authorized an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $0.36 per share payable quarterly, and authorized increases in the annual cash dividend in October 2003 to $0.80 per share, in October 2004 to $1.00 per share and in November 2005 to $1.25 per share. In December 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase in our annual common stock dividend to $1.75 per share and in July 2008 to $2.00 per share. Additionally, since December 2004, we have paid eight supplemental dividends. Because of the deterioration in copper and molybdenum prices and in general economic conditions, in December 2008 the Board of Directors suspended the cash dividend on our common stock; accordingly, no common stock dividends were paid in 2009. In October 2009, the Board of Directors authorized an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $0.60 per share, payable quarterly beginning February 1, 2010. Below is a summary of common stock cash dividends declared and paid during 2008: 2008 Per Share Amount Record Date Payment Date First Quarter $ 0.4375 Jan. 15, 2008 Feb. 1, 2008 Second Quarter 0.4375 Apr. 15, 2008 May 1, 2008 Third Quarter 0.4375 July 15, 2008 Aug. 1, 2008 Fourth Quarter 0.5000 Oct. 15, 2008 Nov. 1, 2008 The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. In addition, payment of dividends on our common stock and purchases of common stock are subject to limitations under our senior notes and, in certain circumstances, our senior credit facilities. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table sets forth information with respect to shares of common stock of FCX purchased by us during the three months ended December 31, 2009: (d) Maximum Number (c) Total Number of (or Approximate (a) Total Shares (or Units) Dollar Value) of Shares Number of (b) Average Purchased as Part of (or Units) That May Shares (or Units) Price Paid Per Publicly Announced Yet Be Purchased Under Period Purchaseda Share (or Unit) Plans or Programsb the Plans or Programsb October 1 31, 2009 279 $ 64.83 23,685,500 November 1 30, 2009 103 $ 84.24 23,685,500 December 1 31, 2009 $ 23,685,500 Total 382 $ 70.06 23,685,500 a. Consists of shares repurchased to satisfy tax obligations on restricted stock awards and stock options under FCXs applicable stock incentive plans. b. On July 21, 2008, FCXs Board of Directors approved an increase in FCXs open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. The program does not have an expiration date. 62 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data. FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007a 2006 2005 FCX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Revenues $ 15,040 $ 17,796 $ 16,939 b $ 5,791 $ 4,179 Operating income (loss) 6,503 c,d (12,710 )c,d,e 6,555 b,e 2,869 2,177 Income (loss) from continuing operations 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,733 1,625 1,122 Net income (loss) 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,779 1,625 1,122 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 785 617 802 168 127 Net income (loss) attributable to FCX common stockholders 2,527 c,d,f (11,341 )c,d,e,f 2,769 b,e,f 1,396 f,g 935 f Basic net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations $ 6.10 $ (29.72 ) $ 8.02 $ 7.32 $ 5.18 Discontinued operations 0.10 Basic net income (loss) $ 6.10 $ (29.72 ) $ 8.12 $ 7.32 $ 5.18 Basic weighted average common shares outstanding 414 382 341 191 180 Diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations $ 5.86 $ (29.72 ) $ 7.41 $ 6.63 $ 4.67 Discontinued operations 0.09 Diluted net income (loss) $ 5.86 c,d,f $ (29.72 )c,d,e,f $ 7.50 b,e,f $ 6.63 f,g $ 4.67 f Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 469 382 397 221 220 Dividends declared per share of common stock $ 0.15 $ 1.375 $ 1.375 $ 5.0625 $ 2.50 At December 31: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,656 $ 872 $ 1,626 $ 907 $ 764 Property, plant, equipment and development costs, net 16,195 16,002 25,715 3,099 3,089 Goodwill 6,105 Total assets 25,996 23,353 40,661 5,390 g 5,550 Total debt, including current portion and short term borrowings 6,346 7,351 7,211 680 1,256 Total FCX stockholders equity 9,119 5,773 18,234 2,445 g 1,843 The selected consolidated financial data shown above is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. You should read this data in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our full consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this annual report. a. Includes the results of Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge) beginning March 20, 2007. b. Includes charges totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.27 per share) for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge. c. Includes charges totaling $77 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share) in 2009 and $17.0 billion ($12.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $33.21 per share) in 2008 associated with impairment, restructuring and other charges. d. Includes charges for lower of cost or market inventory adjustments totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.03 per share) in 2009 and $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.26 per share) in 2008. e. Includes purchase accounting impacts related to the acquisition of Phelps Dodge totaling $1.1 billion, including $1.0 billion to operating loss and $93 million for non operating income and expenses ($679 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.78 per share) in 2008 and $1.3 billion to operating income ($793 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $2.00 per share) in 2007. f. Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversion of debt totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) in 2009, $5 million ($0.01 per share) in 2008, $132 million ($0.33 per share) in 2007, $30 million ($0.14 per share) in 2006 and $40 million ($0.18 per share) in 2005; 2008 also includes charges totaling $22 million ($0.06 per share) associated with privately negotiated transactions to induce conversion of a portion of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock into FCX common stock. Also includes a favorable adjustment to income tax expense totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) in 2009, resulting from completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. g. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted guidance associated with accounting for stripping costs incurred during production in the mining industry, and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment ($149 million) to reduce beginning retained earnings for our deferred mining costs asset ($285 million) as of December 31, 2005, net of taxes, noncontrolling interests and inventory effects ($136 million). As a result, income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests was $35 million lower and net income was $19 million ($0.08 per share) lower than if we had not adopted this guidance. Effective January 1, 2006, we also adopted accounting guidance on share based payments. As a result, income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests was $28 million lower and net income was $16 million ($0.07 per share) lower than if we had not adopted this guidance. Results for prior years have not been restated. 63 Table of Contents FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (Continued) For comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007a 2006 a 2005 a FCX CONSOLIDATED MINING OPERATING DATA Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 4,103 4,030 3,884 3,639 3,912 Production (thousands of metric tons) 1,861 1,828 1,762 1,651 1,774 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 4,111 4,066 3,862 3,630 3,933 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 1,865 1,844 1,752 1,647 1,784 Average realized price per pound $ 2.60 $ 2.69 $ 3.22 b $ 2.80 b $ 1.66 b Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 2,664 1,291 2,329 1,863 2,923 Sales, excluding purchases 2,639 1,314 2,320 1,866 2,925 Average realized price per ounce $ 993 $ 861 $ 682 $ 566 c $ 454 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 54 73 70 68 62 Sales, excluding purchases 58 71 69 69 60 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 $ 21.87 $ 25.89 NORTH AMERICA COPPER MINES Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,147 1,430 1,320 1,305 1,365 Production (thousands of metric tons) 520 649 599 592 619 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 1,187 1,434 1,332 1,303 1,383 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 538 650 604 591 627 Average realized price per pound $ 2.38 $ 3.07 $ 3.10 d $ 2.29 d $ 1.49 d Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 25 30 30 31 30 100% Operating Data Solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 589,400 1,095,200 798,200 801,200 778,500 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.29 0.22 0.23 0.30 0.26 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 859 943 940 1,013 1,066 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 169,900 249,600 223,800 199,300 194,800 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 0.33 0.40 0.35 0.33 0.33 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 Copper recovery rate (percent) 86.0 82.9 84.5 85.0 83.9 Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper 364 599 501 414 419 Molybdenum 25 30 30 31 30 SOUTH AMERICA COPPER MINES Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,390 1,506 1,413 1,133 1,091 Production (thousands of metric tons) 631 683 641 514 495 Sales (millions of pounds) 1,394 1,521 1,399 1,126 1,093 Sales (thousands of metric tons) 632 690 635 511 496 Average realized price per pound $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 3.25 $ 3.03 $ 1.63 e Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 92 114 116 112 117 Sales 90 116 114 111 117 Average realized price per ounce $ 982 $ 853 $ 683 $ 552 $ 425 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 2 3 1 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 258,200 279,700 289,100 257,400 264,600 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.45 0.45 0.43 0.45 0.46 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 565 560 569 695 670 64 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007a 2006 a 2005 a SOUTH AMERICA COPPER MINES (continued) Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 181,300 181,400 167,900 68,500 68,700 Average ore grade (percent):f Copper 0.66 0.75 0.74 0.87 0.84 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 88.9 89.2 87.1 93.8 93.9 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 825 946 844 438 421 Gold (thousands of ounces) 92 114 116 112 117 Molybdenum (millions of pounds) 2 3 1 INDONESIA MINING Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,412 1,094 1,151 1,201 1,456 Production (thousands of metric tons) 640 496 522 545 660 Sales (millions of pounds) 1,400 1,111 1,131 1,201 1,457 Sales (thousands of metric tons) 635 504 513 545 661 Average realized price per pound $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 3.32 $ 3.13 $ 1.85 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 2,568 1,163 2,198 1,732 2,789 Sales 2,543 1,182 2,185 1,736 2,790 Average realized price per ounce $ 994 $ 861 $ 681 $ 567 c $ 456 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day) 238,300 192,900 212,600 229,400 216,200 Average ore grade: Copper (percent) 0.98 0.83 0.82 0.85 1.13 Gold (grams per metric ton) 1.30 0.66 1.24 0.85 1.65 Recovery rates (percent): Copper 90.6 90.1 90.5 86.1 89.2 Gold 83.7 79.9 86.2 80.9 83.1 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 1,641 1,109 1,211 1,300 1,689 Gold (thousands of ounces) 2,984 1,163 2,608 1,824 3,440 AFRICA MINING Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 154 g Sales 130 g Average realized price per pound $ 2.85 g Ore milled (metric tons per day) 7,300 g Average copper ore grade (percent) 3.69 g Copper recovery rate (percent) 92.1 g MOLYBDENUM OPERATIONS Molybdenum sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds)h 58 71 69 69 60 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 $ 21.87 $ 25.89 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day) 14,900 24,100 24,000 22,200 20,300 Average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.25 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.22 Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 27 40 39 37 32 a. For comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.27 per pound for 2007, $3.08 per pound for 2006 and $1.76 per pound for 2005. c. Amount was approximately $606 per ounce before a loss resulting from the redemption of FCXs Gold Denominated Preferred Stock, Series II. d. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.25 per pound for 2007, $3.06 per pound for 2006 and $1.69 per pound for 2005. e. Amount was $1.75 per pound before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs. f. Average ore grades of gold produced at our South America copper mines rounds to less than 0.001 grams per metric ton. g. Results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in March 2009. h. Includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. 65 Table of Contents For the ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculation, earnings consist of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, equity in affiliated companies net earnings, cumulative effect of accounting changes and fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest. For the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends calculation, we assumed that our preferred stock dividend requirements were equal to the pre tax earnings that would be required to cover those dividend requirements. We computed those pre tax earnings using the effective tax rate for each year. Our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was as follows for the years presented: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 9.3x a 9.9x 33.1x 15.9x Ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends 6.1x b 6.6x 14.3x 8.2x a. As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.4 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. b. As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.8 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. 66 Table of Contents Item 7. and 7A. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW and OUTLOOK In Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we, us and our refer to Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The results of operations reported and summarized below are not necessarily indicative of future operating results (refer to Cautionary Statement for further discussion). In particular, the financial results for 2007 include the operations of Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge) from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, not the full twelve month period because of the accounting treatment for the acquisition. References to Notes are Notes included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations all references to earnings or losses per share are on a diluted basis, unless otherwise noted. We are one of the worlds largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. Our portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, which contains the largest single recoverable copper reserve and the largest single gold reserve of any mine in the world based on the latest available reserve data provided by third party industry consultants; significant mining operations in North and South America; and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). We also operate Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in Spain. During 2009, approximately 61 percent of our consolidated copper production was from our Grasberg, Morenci and Cerro Verde mines, and more than half of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, approximately 25 percent as cathodes and approximately 21 percent as rod (principally from our North America operations). We also produce gold as a by product at our copper mines, primarily at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, which accounted for approximately 96 percent of our consolidated gold production for 2009. For 2009, approximately half of our consolidated molybdenum production was from the Henderson molybdenum mine and approximately 46 percent was produced as a by product at our North America copper mines. Refer to Operations for further discussion of our mining operations. The dramatic declines in copper and molybdenum prices in late 2008 and the deterioration of the economic and credit environment limited our ability to invest in growth projects and required us to make adjustments to our near term plans in late 2008 and early 2009 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). However, during 2009 copper prices improved from the January 2009 low of $1.38 per pound. Rising copper prices, along with higher volumes from the Grasberg mine and a lower cost structure at the North America copper mines, have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position during 2009, allowing us to manage volatile conditions effectively, reduce debt and reinstate cash dividends to shareholders, while maintaining our future growth opportunities. In addition, we have announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). At December 31, 2009, we had $2.7 billion in consolidated cash ($2.2 billion of which was available to our parent company). We had no borrowings and $39 million of letters of credit issued under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ($961 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). Our long term debt at December 31, 2009, was $6.3 billion. Although we have no significant debt maturities in the near term (refer to Capital Resources and Liquidity), during 2009, we repaid $1.0 billion in debt in advance of scheduled maturities (refer to Note 10). From January 1, 2010, to February 25, 2010, we have made additional open market debt purchases totaling $269 million for $293 million (refer to Note 23). We may consider additional opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities or redeem our currently redeemable Senior Floating Rate Notes. We view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the worlds economy and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. Refer to Consolidated Results for further discussion of our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 67 Table of Contents Outlook Following are our actual consolidated sales volumes for 2009 and our projected consolidated sales volumes for 2010: 2009 2010 (Actual) (Projected) Copper (billions of recoverable pounds): North America copper mines 1.2 1.0 South America copper mines 1.4 1.3 Indonesia mining 1.4 1.2 Africa mining 0.1 0.2 4.1 3.8 a Gold (millions of recoverable ounces): Indonesia mining 2.5 1.7 South America copper mines 0.1 0.1 2.6 1.8 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds)b 58 60 a. Represents the sum of projected copper sales volumes before rounding. b. Includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. Estimated sales volumes of approximately 3.8 billion pounds of copper for 2010 are lower than 2009 sales of 4.1 billion pounds primarily because of lower volumes in Indonesia as a result of transitioning to a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2010 and at our North America copper mines reflecting the impact of reduced 2009 mining activities on 2010 leaching operations. Estimated sales volumes of approximately 1.8 million ounces of gold for 2010 are lower than 2009 sales of 2.6 million ounces as a result of transitioning to a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2010. Estimated sales volumes of approximately 60 million pounds of molybdenum for 2010 approximate 2009 sales of 58 million pounds. Our projected sales volumes for 2010 depend on the achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors. Assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,100 per ounce of gold and $12 per pound of molybdenum for 2010, we estimate our consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by product credits and excluding Africa mining) for our copper mining operations would average approximately $0.86 per pound in 2010, compared with $0.55 per pound in 2009. Average unit net cash costs for 2010 are estimated to be higher than 2009 as a result of lower projected 2010 copper and gold sales volumes from Grasberg, combined with increases in commodity based input costs and foreign currency exchange rates. Consolidated unit net cash costs would be impacted by approximately $0.025 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in gold prices and approximately $0.01 per pound for each $1 per pound change in molybdenum prices. Consolidated revenues, operating cash flows and net income vary significantly with fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum, sales volumes and other factors. Based on the above projected consolidated sales volumes and assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,100 per ounce of gold and $12 per pound of molybdenum in 2010, our consolidated operating cash flows would approximate $5.3 billion in 2010, net of an estimated $0.4 billion for working capital requirements. Operating cash flows for 2010 would be impacted by approximately $260 million for each $0.10 per pound change in copper prices, $50 million for each $50 per ounce change in gold prices and $45 million for each $1 per pound change in molybdenum prices. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to approximate $1.7 billion, including $0.9 billion for sustaining capital and $0.8 billion for major projects. For 2009, capital expenditures totaled $1.6 billion, which included $0.8 billion for major projects, $0.6 billion for sustaining capital and $0.2 billion for a property acquisition adjacent to our Sierrita mine. We have announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). A number of studies are under way, which may result in increased capital spending programs. 68 Table of Contents COPPER, GOLD AND MOLYBDENUM MARKETS The graphs below illustrate the movements in metals prices from January 2000 through January 2010. World prices for copper, gold and molybdenum have fluctuated significantly during this period. The London Metal Exchange (LME) spot copper price varied from a low of $0.60 per pound in 2001 to a high of $4.08 per pound in 2008, the London gold price fluctuated from a low of $256 per ounce in 2001 to a high of $1,213 per ounce in 2009, and the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price ranged from a low of $2.19 per pound in 2000 to a high of $39.25 per pound in 2005. Copper, gold and molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control as described further in our Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009. * Excludes Shanghai stocks, producer, consumer and merchant stocks. The graph above presents LME spot copper prices and reported stocks of copper at the LME and the New York Mercantile Exchange (COMEX) from January 2000 through January 2010. From 2006 through most of 2008, disruptions associated with strikes and other operational issues, combined with growing demand from China and other emerging economies resulted in low levels of inventory. Beginning in late 2008, slowing consumption led to increases in inventory levels; however, Chinas increased buying activity contributed to a decline in exchange inventories during the first half of 2009. After reaching a low for the year in July 2009, inventories grew during the second half of 2009 with combined LME and COMEX stocks totaling approximately 592 thousand metric tons, or approximately two weeks of global consumption, at December 31, 2009. Turmoil in the United States (U.S.) financial markets and concerns about the global economy negatively impacted copper prices in late 2008, which declined to a four year low of $1.26 per pound in December 2008; however, copper prices improved during 2009 as a result of strong Chinese import activity and supply limitations. During 2009, LME spot copper prices ranged from $1.38 per pound to $3.33 per pound, averaged $2.34 per pound and closed at $3.33 per pound on December 31, 2009. While the near term outlook is uncertain, we believe the underlying fundamentals of the copper business remain positive, supported by limited supplies from existing mines and the absence of significant new development projects. Future copper prices are expected to be volatile and are likely to be influenced by demand from China, economic activity in the U.S. and other industrialized countries, the timing of the development of new supplies of copper and production levels of mines and copper smelters. The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. 69 Table of Contents The graph above presents London gold prices from January 2000 through January 2010. Growing investment demand and a weak U.S. dollar have continued to support gold prices, which reached a new record high of $1,213 per ounce in December 2009. During 2009, gold prices ranged from approximately $810 per ounce to $1,213 per ounce, averaged approximately $972 per ounce and closed at $1,104 per ounce on December 31, 2009. London gold prices closed at $1,079 per ounce on January 29, 2010. The graph above presents Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average prices from January 2000 through January 2010. In late 2008, molybdenum prices declined significantly as a result of the financial market turmoil and a decline in demand; however, molybdenum prices improved during 2009 supported by Chinese imports and supply reductions. During 2009, the weekly average price of molybdenum ranged from $7.83 per pound to $18.00 per pound, averaged $11.08 per pound and was $11.75 per pound on December 31, 2009. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price was $14.88 per pound on January 29, 2010. 70 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. The preparation of these statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We base these estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we consider reasonable under the circumstances; however, reported results could differ from those based on the current estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The areas requiring the use of managements estimates are also discussed in Note 1 under the subheading Use of Estimates. Management has reviewed the following discussion of its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Mineral Reserves. Recoverable proven and probable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates. Estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth of our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. In addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these estimates have been reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. The following table summarizes changes in our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper, gold and molybdenum reserves during 2008 and 2009: Copper Gold Molybdenum (billion (million (billion pounds) ounces) pounds) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2007 93.2 41.0 2.04 Net additions/revisions 12.8 0.3 0.51 Production (4.0) (1.3) (0.07) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2008 102.0 40.0 2.48 Net additions/revisions 6.3 (0.1) 0.16 Production (4.1) (2.7) (0.05) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2009 104.2 37.2 2.59 Net additions to recoverable proven and probable copper reserves during 2008 included additions of 7.5 billion pounds at the Cerro Verde mine in South America, 3.9 billion pounds at our North America copper mines and 1.6 billion pounds at the Tenke Fungurume mine, partially offset by revisions at other mines. Net additions for 2008 replaced over 300 percent of our 2008 copper production. Net additions to recoverable copper reserves during 2009 include additions of 1.7 billion pounds at our North America copper mines, 3.0 billion pounds at our Cerro Verde mine in South America and 2.6 billion pounds at the Tenke Fungurume mine, partially offset by revisions at other mines. Net additions for 2009 replaced approximately 150 percent of current year copper production. Net additions to recoverable copper reserves reflect analysis of exploratory data gained through core drilling undertaken in 2007 and 2008, as well as exploration activities during 2009. Refer to Note 21 for further information regarding estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves. As discussed in Note 1, we depreciate our life of mine mining and milling assets and values assigned to proven and probable reserves using the unit of production (UOP) method based on our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves, and also have other assets that are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations, including changes to prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values. Based on projected copper sales volumes for 2010 (refer to Overview and Outlook), if estimated copper reserves at our mines were 10 percent higher at December 31, 2009, we estimate that our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 2010 would decrease by $31 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders), and a 10 percent decrease in copper reserves would increase depreciation, depletion and amortization expense by $38 million ($18 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders). We perform annual assessments of our existing assets in connection with the review 71 Table of Contents of mine operating and development plans. If it is determined that assigned asset lives do not reflect the expected remaining period of benefit, any change could affect prospective depreciation rates. At December 31, 2009, our long lived assets include amounts assigned to proven and probable reserves totaling $4.3 billion. As discussed in Note 1, we review and evaluate our long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and changes to our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves could have an impact on our assessment of asset recoverability. Impairment of Assets. We evaluate our long lived assets (to be held and used) for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. In evaluating our long lived assets for recoverability, estimates of after tax undiscounted future cash flows of our individual mining operations are used, with impairment losses measured by reference to fair value. As quoted market prices are unavailable for our individual mining operations, fair value is determined through the use of discounted estimated future cash flows. The estimated cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations are derived from current business plans, which are developed using near term price forecasts reflective of the current price environment and managements projections for long term average metal prices. In addition to near and long term metal price assumptions, other key estimates include commodity based and other input costs; proven and probable reserves, including any costs to develop the reserves and the timing of producing the reserves; and the use of appropriate escalation and discount rates. Because the cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations require us to make several estimates and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainty, changes in these estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our long lived assets values. Events that could result in impairment of our long lived assets include, but are not limited to, (i) decreases in future metal prices, (ii) decreases in estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves and (iii) any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on mine site production levels or costs. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the then current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business, and therefore, evaluated our long lived assets for impairment. Projected metal prices represented the most significant assumption used in the cash flow estimates to assess recoverability and measure fair value of our individual mining operations. At the time of the March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge, metal price projections used to value the net assets acquired ranged from near term prices of $2.98 per pound for copper declining over an eight year period to $1.20 per pound and $26.20 per pound for molybdenum declining over a five year period to $8.00 per pound; our December 31, 2008, impairment evaluations were based on price assumptions reflecting prevailing copper futures prices for three years, which ranged from approximately $1.40 per pound to $1.50 per pound, and a long term average price of $1.60 per pound. Molybdenum prices were assumed to average $8.00 per pound. Our evaluation resulted in the recognition of asset impairment charges totaling $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.34 per share) for 2008. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these asset impairment charges. Additionally, goodwill was recorded in connection with the March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge and was assigned to the reporting units, or individual mines, that were expected to benefit from the business combination. Goodwill is required to be evaluated at least annually and at any other time if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Our annual goodwill impairment test was performed in fourth quarter 2008, which resulted in the full impairment of goodwill and the recognition of charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $15.69 per share). Refer to Note 6 for further discussion. Recoverable Copper. We record, as inventory, applicable costs for copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles that are expected to be processed in the future based on proven processing technologies. Mill and leach stockpiles are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are stated at the lower of cost or market (refer to Note 4 for discussion of lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory adjustments recorded in 2009 and 2008). Accounting for recoverable copper from mill and leach stockpiles represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, and therefore, requires management to employ reasonable estimation methods and (ii) recovery rates from leach stockpiles can vary significantly. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on 72 Table of Contents surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be extracted into copper concentrate almost immediately. Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small scale laboratory tests, small to large scale column testing (which simulates the production scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. At December 31, 2009, estimated recoverable copper was 2.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles (with a carrying value of $1.5 billion) and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (with a carrying value of $488 million). Reclamation and Closure Costs. Reclamation is an ongoing activity that occurs throughout the life of a mine. We record the fair value of our estimated asset retirement obligations (AROs) associated with tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. Fair value is measured as the present value of cash flow estimates after considering inflation and then applying a market risk premium. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. These cost estimates may differ from financial assurance cost estimates for reclamation activities because of a variety of factors, including obtaining updated cost estimates for reclamation activities, the timing of reclamation activities, changes in scope and the exclusion of certain costs not considered reclamation and closure costs. Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of our accounting policy for reclamation and closure costs. Generally, ARO activities are specified by regulations or in permits issued by the relevant governing authority, and management judgment is required to estimate the extent and timing of expenditures based on life of mine planning. Accounting for reclamation and closure costs represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) we will not incur most of these costs for a number of years, requiring us to make estimates over a long period, (ii) reclamation and closure laws and regulations could change in the future and or circumstances affecting our operations could change, either of which could result in significant changes to our current plans, (iii) calculating the fair value of our AROs requires management to estimate projected cash flows, make long term assumptions about inflation rates, determine our credit adjusted, risk free interest rates and determine market risk premiums that are appropriate for our operations and (iv) given the magnitude of our estimated reclamation and closure costs, changes in any or all of these estimates could have a significant impact on our results of operations. At least annually, we review our ARO estimates for changes in the projected timing of certain reclamation costs, changes in cost estimates, and additional AROs incurred during the period. Following is a summary of changes in our AROs for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of year $ 712 $ 728 $ 30 Liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge 531 a Liabilities incurred 12 5 1 Revisions to cash flow estimates (17 ) 21 179 b Accretion expense 52 51 27 Spending (28 ) (91 ) (40 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment (2 ) Balance at end of year $ 731 $ 712 $ 728 a. The fair value of AROs assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge was estimated based on projected cash flows, an estimated long term annual inflation rate of 2.4 percent, a discount rate based on FCXs estimated credit adjusted, risk free interest rate of 7.8 percent and a market risk premium of 10 percent to reflect what a third party might require to assume these AROs. b. During 2007, Chino and Tyrone each submitted updated third party closure cost estimates to the state of New Mexico as part of the permit renewal process. As a result, we revised our cash flow estimates and increased our ARO by $95 million for 73 Table of Contents Chino and $45 million for Tyrone. During 2009, Tyrone filed an appeal regarding the point of groundwater withdrawal. Finalized closure plan requirements, including those resulting from resolution of the appeal, may result in additional adjustments. Additionally, PT Freeport Indonesia updated its cost estimates primarily for changes to its plans for the treatment of acidic water, resulting in an increase of $33 million. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. Environmental Obligations. Our mining, exploration, production and historical operating activities are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, and compliance with those laws requires significant expenditures. Environmental expenditures for closed facilities and closed portions of operating facilities are expensed or capitalized depending upon their future economic benefits. The general guidance provided by U.S. GAAP requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 1 for discussion of our accounting policy for environmental expenditures. Accounting for environmental obligations represents a critical accounting estimate because changes to environmental laws and regulations and or circumstances affecting our operations, could result in significant changes to our estimates, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. We review changes in facts and circumstances associated with the environmental obligations on a quarterly basis. Judgments and estimates are based upon available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, remediation experience, whether or not we are a potentially responsible party (PRP), the ability of other PRPs to pay their allocated portions and take into consideration reasonably possible outcomes. Our cost estimates can change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or extent of site contamination, required remediation methods and actions by or against governmental agencies or private parties. At December 31, 2009, environmental obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheets totaled approximately $1.5 billion, which reflect obligations for environmental liabilities attributed to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. Following is a summary of changes in our estimated environmental obligations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of year $ 1,401 $ 1,268 $ Liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge 117 1,334 Accretion expensea 102 95 Additions 40 36 6 Reductions (3 ) (1 ) (1 ) Spending (76 ) (114 ) (71 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,464 $ 1,401 $ 1,268 a. Represents accretion of the fair values of environmental obligations assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, which were determined on a discounted cash flow basis. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of environmental obligations. Deferred Taxes. In preparing our annual consolidated financial statements, we estimate the actual amount of taxes currently payable or receivable as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in income in the period in which such changes are enacted. A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be realized. In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each jurisdiction. If we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets, we will increase our valuation allowance. Conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to realize all or a portion of the related benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided, all or a portion of the related valuation allowance will be reduced. 74 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, our valuation allowances totaled $2.2 billion and covered all of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards and U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards, and a portion of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards and U.S. minimum tax credit carryforwards. This valuation allowance includes $44 million relating to tax benefits that, if recognized, would be credited directly to contributed capital. At December 31, 2008, our valuation allowances totaled $1.8 billion and covered all of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards, U.S. minimum tax credit carryforwards, foreign net operating loss carryforwards and U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards, and also covered a portion of our net U.S. deferred tax assets. The $394 million increase in the valuation allowance during 2009 was primarily the result of an increase to the foreign tax credit carryforwards. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Financial Data (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenuesa $ 15,040 b $ 17,796 b $ 16,939 b,c Operating income (loss) 6,503 b (12,710 )b,d,e 6,555 b,c,e Income (loss) from continuing operations 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,733 Net income (loss) 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,779 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 785 617 802 Net income (loss) attributable to FCX common stockholdersf 2,527 g,h (11,341 )d,e,h 2,769 c,e,h Diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations $ 5.86 $ (29.72 ) $ 7.41 Discontinued operations 0.09 Diluted net income (loss) $ 5.86 g,h $ (29.72 )d,e,h $ 7.50 c,e,h Diluted weighted average common shares outstandingi 469 382 397 Mining Operating Data Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 4,103 4,030 3,367 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 4,111 4,066 3,357 Average realized price per pound $ 2.60 $ 2.69 $ 3.29 c Site production and delivery costs per poundj $ 1.12 $ 1.51 $ 1.18 Unit net cash costs per poundj $ 0.55 $ 1.16 $ 0.76 Gold (recoverable) Production (thousands of ounces) 2,664 1,291 2,308 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of ounces) 2,639 1,314 2,298 Average realized price per ounce $ 993 $ 861 $ 682 Molybdenum (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 54 73 56 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 58 71 52 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 26.81 a. Includes the impact of adjustments to provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales recognized in prior periods. Refer to Revenues and Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion. b. Following is a summary of revenues by operating division (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 North America copper mines $ 3,235 $ 5,265 $ 4,093 South America copper mines 3,839 4,166 3,879 Indonesia mining 5,908 3,412 4,808 Africa mining 389 Molybdenum 847 2,488 1,746 Rod & Refining 3,356 5,557 5,140 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 2,341 2,388 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (5,433 ) (5,115 ) Total FCX revenues $ 15,040 $ 17,796 $ 16,939 75 Table of Contents Following is a summary of operating income (loss) by operating division (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 North America copper mines $ 1,020 $ (11,522 ) $ 1,428 South America copper mines 2,001 (694 ) 2,224 Indonesia mining 4,034 1,307 3,033 Africa mining 8 (26 ) (12 ) Molybdenum 126 (1,473 ) 353 Rod & Refining 14 2 14 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining (56 ) 10 3 Corporate, other & eliminations (644 ) (314 ) (488 ) Total FCX operating income (loss) $ 6,503 $ (12,710 ) $ 6,555 Refer to Note 20 for further discussion of our operating divisions and business segments. c. Includes charges to revenues for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.27 per share) and a reduction in 2007 average realized copper prices of $0.05 per pound. d. Includes long lived asset impairments and other charges totaling $11.0 billion ($6.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.52 per share), goodwill impairment charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $15.69 per share), and charges for LCM inventory adjustments totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.26 per share). Refer to Notes 2 and 6 and Critical Accounting Estimates Asset Impairments for further discussion. e. Includes the impacts of purchase accounting fair value adjustments associated with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, which were primarily because of increased carrying values of acquired property, plant and equipment and metal inventories, including mill and leach stockpiles, and also includes amounts for non operating income and expense mostly related to accretion of the fair values of assumed environmental obligations (determined on a discounted cash flow basis). These impacts totaled $1.1 billion, including $1.0 billion to operating loss and $93 million for non operating income and expenses, ($679 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.78 per share) in 2008 and $1.3 billion to operating income ($793 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $2.00 per share) in 2007. Refer to Note 20 for a summary of the impacts of purchase accounting fair value adjustments on our business segments for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. f. After noncontrolling interests and preferred dividends. g. Includes charges of $43 million ($0.09 per share) for the partial settlement of the City of Blackwell lawsuit (see Note 14), and also includes a favorable adjustment to income tax expense totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) resulting from the completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. h. Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversions of debt totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) in 2009 associated with the redemption of our $340 million of 6% Senior Notes and open market purchases of our 8.25% Senior Notes, our 8.375% Senior Notes and our 8% Senior Notes, $5 million ($0.01 per share) in 2008 associated with an open market purchase of our 9% Senior Notes and $132 million ($0.33 per share) in 2007 primarily related to premiums paid and the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with early repayments of debt. Refer to Note 10 for further discussion. i. As applicable, reflects assumed conversion of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock (which converted into 17.9 million shares of FCX common stock in September 2009) and 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (refer to Note 12). In addition, the 2009 period includes the effects of the 26.8 million shares of common stock we sold in February 2009. Common shares outstanding on December 31, 2009, totaled 430 million. j. Reflects per pound weighted average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for all copper mines, excluding net noncash and nonrecurring costs and Africa mining. For reconciliations of the per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs and to Product Revenues and Production Costs. 76 Table of Contents Revenues Consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, molybdenum, gold and other metals by our North and South America copper mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operation, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operation, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes, and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Our mining revenues for 2009 include sales of copper (approximately 75 percent), gold (approximately 17 percent) and molybdenum (approximately 5 percent). Consolidated revenues totaled $15.0 billion in 2009, compared with $17.8 billion in 2008 and $16.9 billion in 2007. Following is a summary of year to year changes in our consolidated revenues (in millions): 2009 2008 Consolidated revenues prior year $ 17,796 $ 16,939 Higher (lower) sales volumes from mining operations: Copper 121 2,367 Gold 1,141 (671 ) Molybdenum (395 ) 505 Higher (lower) price realizations from mining operations: Copper (288 ) (2,631 ) Gold 349 235 Molybdenum (1,056 ) 266 Lower purchased copper and molybdenum (1,414 ) (5 ) (Lower) higher adjustments, primarily for prior year provisionally priced sales (239 ) 309 Lower Atlantic Copper revenues (449 ) (47 ) Impact of the 2007 copper price protection program 175 Other, including intercompany eliminations (526 ) 354 Consolidated revenues current year $ 15,040 $ 17,796 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated sales volumes totaled 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 2.6 million ounces of gold and 58 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009, compared with 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 1.3 million ounces of gold and 71 million pounds of molybdenum in 2008. Higher copper sales volumes in 2009, when compared with 2008 (45 million pounds), primarily resulted from mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit and the contribution of 2009 sales volumes from the Tenke Fungurume mine, partly offset by lower sales volumes as a result of production curtailments at the North America copper mines and lower ore grades at Candelaria. Mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit also resulted in substantially higher gold sales volumes in 2009. Lower molybdenum sales volumes in 2009 reflected reduced demand in the metallurgical and chemical sectors. Refer to Operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. Consolidated revenues in 2009 were also impacted by lower copper and molybdenum prices compared to 2008. Realized copper prices decreased in 2009 to an average of $2.60 per pound, compared with $2.69 per pound in 2008. More significantly, realized molybdenum prices decreased to an average of $12.36 per pound in 2009, compared with $30.55 per pound in 2008. Partly offsetting lower copper and molybdenum prices were higher realized gold prices, which increased to an average of $993 per ounce in 2009, compared with $861 per ounce in 2008. We primarily purchase copper cathode to be processed by our Rod and Refining segment when production from our North America copper mines does not meet customer demand. Accordingly, the decrease in purchased copper for 2009, compared to 2008, resulted from lower demand. Under the long established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of our concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME prices (refer to Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion). Adjustments to the December 31, 2008, provisionally priced copper sales resulted in a net increase to consolidated revenues of $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or 77 Table of Contents $0.13 per share) in 2009, compared with an increase of $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.30 per share) in 2008. 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated sales volumes in 2008 totaled 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 1.3 million ounces of gold and 71 million pounds of molybdenum, compared with 3.4 billion pounds of copper, 2.3 million ounces of gold and 52 million pounds of molybdenum in 2007. Higher copper and molybdenum sales volumes in 2008 reflected a full twelve months of sales at our North and South America copper mines and Molybdenum operations, compared with 2007, which included sales from these operations beginning March 20, 2007. Higher copper sales volumes in 2008 also reflected additional copper production from the Safford mine, which began production in December 2007, and higher production from the Cerro Verde concentrator, which reached design capacity in mid 2007. Gold sales volumes for 2008 were lower than in 2007 because of mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first nine months of 2008, which resulted in lower grades and recovery rates. Refer to Operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. Realized copper prices decreased in 2008 to an average of $2.69 per pound, compared with $3.34 per pound (excluding the impact from the 2007 copper price protection program) in 2007. Realized gold and molybdenum prices increased in 2008 to an average of $861 per ounce for gold and $30.55 per pound for molybdenum, compared with $682 per ounce for gold and $26.81 per pound for molybdenum in 2007. Adjustments to the December 31, 2007, provisionally priced copper sales increased consolidated revenues by $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.30 per share) in 2008, compared with a decrease of $42 million ($18 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.05 per share) in 2007. On limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. Also, in connection with the Phelps Dodge acquisition, we assumed the 2007 copper price protection program, which resulted in charges to revenues in 2007 totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.27 per share). The 2007 copper price protection program matured on December 31, 2007. We do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future. Production and Delivery Costs 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $7.0 billion in 2009 compared with $10.4 billion in 2008. Lower production and delivery costs for 2009 primarily reflect the effects of lower operating rates at our North America copper mines, lower commodity based input costs and lower purchases of copper. Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally electricity, diesel, coal and natural gas. Commodity based input costs began declining in late 2008 and we realized the benefits of these declines in 2009. Excluding Africa mining, energy costs approximated 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs in 2009, compared with approximately 25 percent in 2008, and included purchases of approximately 190 million gallons of diesel fuel, 5,700 gigawatt hours of electricity at our North and South America mines (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation), 800 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia, and 1 million MMBTU (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. For 2010, we estimate energy costs, excluding Africa mining, will approximate 22 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. Consolidated unit site production and delivery costs for our copper mining operations, excluding net noncash and nonrecurring costs and Africa mining, averaged $1.12 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.51 per pound of copper in 2008. Lower site production and delivery costs in 2009 reflected higher copper ore grades at Grasberg, reduced operating rates at our North America copper mines to suspend production of high cost incremental volumes, achievement of cost savings initiatives and operating efficiencies, and lower energy and other commodity based input costs. Refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs for further discussion of unit net cash costs associated with our operating divisions, and to Product Revenues and Production Costs for reconciliations of per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. We will incorporate Africa mining in our consolidated unit net cash cost disclosures upon completion of ramp up activities, which is expected in 2010. 78 Table of Contents 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $10.4 billion in 2008 compared with $8.5 billion in 2007. Higher production and delivery costs for 2008 reflect a full year of costs associated with our acquired copper and molybdenum operations in North and South America and the impact of higher costs, principally for commodity based input costs such as energy and sulphuric acid. Partly offsetting these higher costs were $656 million of lower purchase accounting impacts associated with increased inventory values that were mostly realized in 2007. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.0 billion in 2009 compared with $1.8 billion in 2008. The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense reflected the impact of long lived asset impairments recognized at December 31, 2008 (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Impairments of Assets for further discussion). 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.8 billion in 2008 compared with $1.2 billion in 2007. The increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense reflected higher purchase accounting impacts of $293 million primarily related to a full twelve months in 2008, and also reflected higher depreciation expense under the unit of production method resulting from a full year of production from our North and South America copper mines in 2008. LCM Inventory Adjustments Inventories are required to be recorded at the lower of cost or market. In first quarter 2009, we recognized charges of $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.03 per share) for lower of cost or market (LCM) molybdenum inventory adjustments. There were no further LCM inventory adjustments recorded subsequent to first quarter 2009. In 2008, we recorded LCM inventory adjustments totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.26 per share). Inventories acquired in connection with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge (including long term mill and leach stockpiles) were recorded at fair value using near term price forecasts reflecting the then current price environment and managements projections for long term average metal prices. The charges recognized in 2008 were based on prevailing copper futures prices for three years, which ranged from approximately $1.40 per pound to $1.50 per pound, and a long term average price of $1.60 per pound. Molybdenum prices were assumed to average $8.00 per pound. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $321 million in 2009 compared with $269 million in 2008. Higher selling, general and administrative expenses primarily reflected a net increase in incentive compensation costs, partly offset by reductions associated with administrative costs savings initiatives. 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $269 million in 2008 compared with $466 million in 2007. Lower selling, general and administrative expenses primarily reflected lower incentive compensation costs in 2008 because of weaker financial results. Exploration and Research Expenses Exploration activities are being conducted near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where we currently operate. Significantly expanded drilling activities during 2007 and 2008 were successful in providing reserve additions and in identifying potential additional ore adjacent to existing ore bodies. Results indicate opportunities for future potential reserve additions at Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad in North America, at Cerro Verde in South America and in the Tenke Fungurume district. Consolidated exploration and research expenses totaled $90 million in 2009, $292 million in 2008 and $145 million in 2007. Throughout most of 2008, expenditures primarily reflected increased exploration efforts in North America and also in Africa, including targets outside the area of initial development at Tenke Fungurume. However, in response to weak market conditions at the end of 2008, we revised operating plans to significantly reduce exploration costs in 2009. During 2009, we focused on analyzing exploration data gained through the core drilling 79 Table of Contents previously undertaken in addition to conducting new activities. For 2010, exploration expenditures are expected to approximate $100 million. Exploration activities will continue to focus on the potential in our existing mineral districts. Long Lived Asset Impairments and Other Charges During 2009, net restructuring and other charges totaled $77 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share), which included charges of $54 million ($43 million to net income or $0.09 per share) associated with the partial settlement of the City of Blackwell lawsuit. During 2008, we recognized charges totaling $11.0 billion ($6.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.52 per share) for long lived asset impairments and other charges. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the declines in copper and molybdenum prices and the deterioration of the economic environment represented significant adverse changes in the business, and therefore evaluated our long lived assets for impairment as of December 31, 2008, which resulted in the recognition of asset impairment charges totaling $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.34 per share). In addition, during fourth quarter 2008, we recorded net restructuring and other charges totaling $111 million ($67 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.18 per share) associated with our revised operating plans, including contract termination costs, other project cancellation costs, employee severance and benefits and special retirement benefits and curtailments. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these charges. Goodwill Impairment Our annual impairment test of goodwill at December 31, 2008, resulted in the recognition of goodwill impairment charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $15.69 per share). Refer to Note 6 for further discussion. Interest Expense, Net Consolidated interest expense (before capitalization) totaled $664 million in 2009, $706 million in 2008 and $660 million in 2007. Lower interest expense in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected net repayments of debt and lower interest rates on our variable rate debt during 2009. Higher interest expense in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected the impacts associated with accretion of the fair values of environmental obligations (determined on a discounted cash flow basis) assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, partly offset by lower interest expense associated with net repayments of debt during 2007. Refer to Capital Resources and Liquidity Financing Activities for discussion of debt repayments. Capitalized interest is primarily related to our development projects and totaled $78 million in 2009, $122 million in 2008 and $147 million in 2007. The decrease in capitalized interest in 2009 primarily reflects the substantial completion of development activities at our Tenke Fungurume mine. Refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion. Losses on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $48 million ($43 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.09 per share), including $14 million ($13 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders) associated with the redemption of our $340 million of 6% Senior Notes and $34 million ($30 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders) for open market purchases of our 8.25% Senior Notes, 8.375% Senior Notes and 8% Senior Notes. During 2008, we recorded net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $6 million ($5 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.01 per share) associated with an open market purchase of $33 million of our 9% Senior Notes. During 2007, we recorded net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $173 million ($132 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.33 per share) primarily related to the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with early repayment of amounts under the $11.5 billion senior credit facility, including the refinancing of the Tranche B term loan. Also included was $17 million ($10 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.02 per share) related to premiums paid and the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with the May 2007 redemption of our 10% Senior Notes. 80 Table of Contents Refer to Note 10 for further discussion of these transactions. Gains on Sales of Assets Gains on sales of assets totaled $13 million ($8 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.02 per share) in 2008 and $85 million ($52 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share) in 2007 primarily associated with sales of marketable securities. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net, totaled $(53) million in 2009, $(22) million in 2008 and $157 million in 2007. The decrease in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to lower interest income ($46 million). The decrease in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily related to lower interest income ($82 million) and higher foreign currency exchange losses ($64 million) mostly associated with estimated Chilean tax payments. (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes Our income tax provision for 2009 resulted from taxes on international operations ($2.3 billion) and U.S. operations ($35 million). Our effective tax rate is sensitive to changes in commodity prices and the mix of income between U.S. and international operations. The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 40 percent in 2009 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia, which was taxed at an effective tax rate of 42 percent. Our benefit from income taxes in 2008 resulted from U.S. operations ($3.4 billion), partly offset by taxes on international operations ($604 million). The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 21 percent in 2008 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to goodwill impairment charges, which were non deductible for tax purposes, and the recognition of a valuation allowance against U.S. federal alternative minimum tax credits, partly offset by benefits for percentage depletion and U.S. state income taxes. A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated (provision for) benefit from income taxes for 2009 and 2008 follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Income Tax Income Tax Income Effective (Provision) Income Effective (Provision) (Loss)a Tax Rate Benefit (Loss)a Tax Rate Benefit U.S. $ 117 70% $ (82 ) $ 1,258 15% $ (191 ) South America 2,010 32% (650 ) 1,752 32% (553 ) Indonesia 4,000 42% (1,697 ) 1,432 43% (612 ) Africa (60 ) 25% 15 (187 ) 35% 66 Asset impairment charges N/A (10,867 ) 39% 4,212 Goodwill impairment charges N/A (5,987 ) N/A LCM inventory adjustments (19 ) 20% 4 (782 ) 38% 299 Eliminations and other (232 ) N/A 60 72 N/A (18 ) Adjustments N/A N/A 43 b N/A N/A (359 )c Consolidated FCX $ 5,816 40% $ (2,307 ) $ (13,309 ) 21% $ 2,844 a. Represents income (loss) from continuing operations (by geographic location) before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings. b. Includes a favorable adjustment totaling $43 million resulting from completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. c. Represents an adjustment to establish a valuation allowance against U.S. federal alternative minimum tax credits. Our estimated consolidated effective tax rate for 2010 will vary with commodity price changes and the mix of income from international and U.S. operations. Assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound for copper, $1,100 per ounce for gold, $12 per pound for molybdenum and current sales estimates, we estimate our annual consolidated effective tax rate will approximate 37 percent; however, the rate would range from approximately 40 percent at $2.50 per pound for copper to approximately 37 percent at $3.50 per pound for copper. 81 Table of Contents Our income tax provision from continuing operations in 2007 resulted from taxes on international operations ($2.2 billion) and U.S. operations ($215 million). The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 39 percent for 2007 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to (i) withholding taxes related to earnings from Indonesia and South America mining operations, (ii) a U.S. foreign tax credit limitation and (iii) an adjustment associated with the reversal of the Phelps Dodge indefinite reinvestment assertion on certain earnings in South America, partly offset by a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion and an international tax rate differential. A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for 2007 follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2007 Income Effective Income Tax (Loss)a Tax Rate Provision U.S. $ 976 22% $ (215 ) South America 2,254 33% (742 ) Indonesia 2,860 46% (1,326 ) Africa (3 ) NM* (4 ) Eliminations and other 24 N/A (2 ) Adjustments N/A N/A (111 )b Consolidated FCX $ 6,111 39% $ (2,400 ) * NM Not meaningful a. Represents income from continuing operations (by geographic location) before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings. b. Represents an adjustment for a one time charge associated with the reversal of the Phelps Dodge indefinite reinvestment assertion on certain earnings in South America. This adjustment was fully offset by a reduction in noncontrolling interests share of net income. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of income taxes. OPERATIONS For comparative purposes, certain of the operating data included in this section for our North America copper mines, South America copper mines and Molybdenum operations for the year 2007, combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. North America Copper Mines We currently have six operating copper mines in North America Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford and Miami in Arizona, and Tyrone in New Mexico. All of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci, an unincorporated joint venture, in which we own an 85 percent undivided interest. The North America copper mines include open pit mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations. In addition to copper, the Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad mines produce molybdenum as a by product. A majority of the copper produced at our North America copper mines is cast into copper rod by our Rod & Refining operations. Rod and wire sales to outside wire and cable manufacturers represented approximately 72 percent of North America copper sales in 2009. The remainder of our North America copper sales is primarily in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate. Refer to Note 20 for further discussion of our reportable segment in the North America copper mines division. In response to weak market conditions, operating plans at our North America copper mines were revised at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 primarily to reflect curtailed production rates, capital cost reductions and the incorporation of reduced input costs (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). In October 2009, we announced initiatives to resume limited mining activities at the Miami mine in Arizona. This project, which was deferred in late 2008, will improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site. In addition, we are initiating activities to restart the Morenci mill, which was temporarily idled in February 2009, 82 Table of Contents to process available sulfide material currently being mined. Refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion of these development projects. Operating plans at our North America copper mines continue to be reviewed and additional adjustments will be made in response to changes in market conditions. In December 2009, we purchased property adjacent to our Sierrita operations, which includes the Twin Buttes copper mine, that ceased operations in 1994 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. 2009 2008 2007a Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,147 1,430 1,320 Sales, excluding purchases 1,187 1,434 1,332 Average realized price per pound $ 2.38 $ 3.07 $ 3.10 b Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productionc 25 30 30 100% Operating Data SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 589,400 1,095,200 798,200 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.29 0.22 0.23 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 859 943 940 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 169,900 249,600 223,800 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 0.33 0.40 0.35 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 86.0 82.9 84.5 Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper 364 599 501 Molybdenum 25 30 30 a. The North America copper mines operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Amount was $3.25 per pound of copper before charges for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program. c. Reflects by product molybdenum production from the North America copper mines. Sales of by product molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum division. 2009 Compared with 2008 Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines decreased to 1.2 billion pounds in 2009, compared with 1.4 billion pounds in 2008. Certain of our North America copper mines continue to operate at reduced rates in response to reduced demand for copper in the western world. Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines are expected to approximate 1.0 billion pounds in 2010 which reflects the impacts of reduced 2009 mining activities on 2010 leaching operations. By product molybdenum production from our North America copper mines is expected to approximate 30 million pounds in 2010. 2008 Compared with 2007 Copper sales from the North America mines increased to 1.4 billion pounds in 2008, compared with 1.3 billion pounds for the combined year 2007, primarily reflecting additional copper production from the Safford mine, which began production in December 2007 and was ramping up to design capacity during 2008 before operating plans were revised in fourth quarter 2008 to curtail production. 83 Table of Contents Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper and Molybdenum The following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Compared with 2008 2009 2008 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Molyb Product Molyb Method Copper denuma Method Copper denuma Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2.38 $ 2.38 $ 10.96 $ 3.07 $ 3.07 $ 30.25 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.25 1.15 5.67 1.88 1.63 12.67 By product creditsa (0.23 ) (0.64 ) Treatment charges 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09 Unit net cash costs 1.11 1.24 5.67 1.33 1.72 12.67 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.22 0.21 0.40 0.53 0.46 2.81 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.11 0.11 0.07 0.52 0.49 1.34 Total unit costs 1.44 1.56 6.14 2.38 2.67 16.82 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging 0.08 0.08 (0.05 ) (0.05 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.06 ) (0.06 ) (0.05 ) Gross profit per pound $ 0.94 $ 0.82 $ 4.82 $ 0.58 $ 0.29 $ 13.38 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,185 1,185 1,430 1,430 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)b 25 30 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Reflects molybdenum produced by the North America copper mines. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines decreased to $1.11 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.33 per pound in 2008, primarily reflecting a net decrease in site production and delivery costs ($0.63 per pound) associated with cost reduction and efficiency efforts, including the impact of lower operating rates and reduced input costs (principally for energy), partly offset by changes in inventory, which reflects the impact of historical higher cost production on inventory carrying values. The decrease in site production and delivery costs was partly offset by lower molybdenum credits ($0.41 per pound) primarily resulting from lower molybdenum prices and sales volumes. Our operating North America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and ore characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2009, unit net cash costs for the North America copper mines ranged from a net cost of $0.91 per pound to $1.66 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.11 per pound. Based on current operating plans and assuming achievement of current sales estimates and average prices of $12 per pound of molybdenum for 2010, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines would approximate $1.23 per pound of copper in 2010. Unit net cash costs for 2010 are expected to be higher, compared with 2009, primarily because of higher input costs and lower volumes, partly offset by higher molybdenum credits. Each $1 per pound change in the average molybdenum price during the year would have an approximate $0.02 per pound impact on the North America copper mines 2010 unit net cash costs. 84 Table of Contents The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the impact of the long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as LCM inventory adjustments and other unusual charges. Noncash and nonrecurring costs for 2008 include charges for LCM inventory adjustments, which totaled $661 million, or $0.46 per pound in 2008; there were no LCM copper inventory adjustments recorded at the North America mines in 2009. Revenue adjustments primarily reflect unrealized gains (losses) on copper derivative contracts entered into with our U.S. copper rod customers, which allow us to receive market prices in the month of shipment while the customer pays the fixed price they requested (refer to Note 16 for further discussion). 2008 Compared with 2007 2008 2007a By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Molyb Product Molyb Method Copper denumb Method Copper denumb Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3.07 $ 3.07 $ 30.25 $ 3.40 $ 3.40 $ 30.69 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.88 1.63 12.67 1.46 1.25 10.85 By product creditsb (0.64 ) (0.69 ) Treatment charges 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.10 Unit net cash costs 1.33 1.72 12.67 0.87 1.35 10.85 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.53 0.46 2.81 0.47 0.40 2.89 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.52 0.49 1.34 0.35 0.33 0.15 Total unit costs 2.38 2.67 16.82 1.69 2.08 13.89 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging (0.05 ) (0.05 ) (0.20 ) (0.20 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.06 ) (0.06 ) (0.05 ) (0.05 ) (0.05 ) (0.03 ) Gross profit per pound $ 0.58 $ 0.29 $ 13.38 $ 1.46 $ 1.07 $ 16.77 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,430 1,430 1,038 1,038 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)c 30 23 a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. b. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. c. Reflects molybdenum produced by the North America copper mines. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines increased to $1.33 per pound of copper in 2008, compared with $0.87 per pound of copper for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, primarily reflecting production cost increases associated with higher mining costs and milling rates, higher energy costs and costs of other consumables and higher costs associated with Safford as the mine ramped up to full production rates. The increase in noncash and nonrecurring costs for 2008 primarily reflected charges for LCM inventory adjustments in 2008 totaling $661 million ($0.46 per pound), partly offset by lower purchase accounting impacts related to increased carrying values of acquired inventory, which totaled $24 million ($0.02 per pound) in 2008 and $344 million ($0.33 per pound) in 2007. Revenue adjustments primarily reflect unrealized losses on copper derivative contracts entered into with our U.S. copper rod customers. In 2007, revenue adjustments also reflected mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program totaling $175 million ($0.17 per pound). South America Copper Mines We have four operating copper mines in South America Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile. We own a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an 80 percent interest in both Candelaria and Ojos del Salado and a 51 percent interest in El Abra. The South America copper mines include open pit and underground mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and SX/EW operations. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum concentrates as a 85 Table of Contents by product, and the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver as by products. Production from our South America copper mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under long term contracts. Beginning in 2008, our South America copper mines began selling a portion of their copper concentrate and cathode inventories to Atlantic Copper, an affiliated smelter. Refer to Note 20 for further discussion of our reportable segment in the South America copper mines division. In response to weak market conditions, operating plans at our South America copper mines were revised at the end of 2008 primarily to reflect the incorporation of reduced input costs and a reduction in capital spending plans. We also temporarily curtailed the molybdenum circuit at Cerro Verde (which resumed in September 2009). In October 2009, we announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities, including development of sulfide ores at El Abra and an expansion of the Cerro Verde concentrator (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). Refer to Note 14 for information on contingencies at our South America copper mines. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the South America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The below operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. 2009 2008 2007a Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,390 1,506 1,413 Sales 1,394 1,521 1,399 Average realized price per pound $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 3.25 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 92 114 116 Sales 90 116 114 Average realized price per ounce $ 982 $ 853 $ 683 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productionb 2 3 1 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 258,200 279,700 289,100 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.45 0.45 0.43 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 565 560 569 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 181,300 181,400 167,900 Average ore grade:c Copper (percent) 0.66 0.75 0.74 Molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 88.9 89.2 87.1 Production: Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 825 946 844 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) 92 114 116 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) 2 3 1 a. The South America copper mines operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Reflects by product molybdenum production from our Cerro Verde copper mine. Sales of by product molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum segment. c. Average ore grades of gold produced at our South America mines rounds to less than 0.001 grams per metric ton. 2009 Compared with 2008 Copper sales volumes from the South America copper mines decreased to 1.4 billion pounds in 2009, compared with 1.5 billion for the year 2008, primarily reflecting lower ore grades at Candelaria and downtime for mill maintenance at Cerro Verde. Consolidated sales volumes from our South America copper mines are expected to 86 Table of Contents approximate 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold in 2010. Projected copper sales volumes for 2010 are lower than 2009 primarily because of the impact of anticipated lower ore grades at El Abra. 2008 Compared with 2007 Copper sales volumes from the South America copper mines increased to 1.5 billion pounds in 2008, compared with 1.4 billion pounds for the combined year 2007, primarily reflecting higher production from the Cerro Verde concentrator, which reached design capacity in mid 2007. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper The following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at the South America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. The below tables reflect unit net cash costs per pound of copper under the by product and co product methods as the South America copper mines also had small amounts of molybdenum, gold and silver sales. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Compared with 2008 2009 2008 By Product Co Product By Product Co Product Method Method Method Method Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2.70 $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 2.57 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.08 1.02 1.13 1.07 By product credits (0.11 ) (0.13 ) Treatment charges 0.15 0.15 0.14 0.14 Unit net cash costs 1.12 1.17 1.14 1.21 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.20 0.19 0.33 0.32 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.02 0.02 0.07 0.06 Total unit costs 1.34 1.38 1.54 1.59 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.08 0.08 0.15 0.15 Other non inventoriable costs (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Gross profit per pound $ 1.42 $ 1.38 $ 1.16 $ 1.11 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,394 1,394 1,521 1,521 Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America copper mines decreased to $1.12 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.14 per pound in 2008, primarily reflecting lower site production and delivery costs ($0.05 per pound) associated with lower input costs (primarily for energy). Our South America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and ore characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2009, unit net cash costs for the South America copper mines ranged from $1.01 per pound to $1.24 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.12 per pound. Assuming achievement of current sales volumes estimates and estimates for commodity based inputs, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America copper mines would approximate $1.20 per pound of copper in 2010. Unit net cash costs for 2010 are expected to be higher, than in 2009, primarily because of lower volumes and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, partly offset by lower sulphuric acid costs. 87 Table of Contents The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the impact of the long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these impairment charges). 2008 Compared with 2007 2008 2007a By Product Co Product By Product Co Product Method Method Method Method Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2.57 $ 2.57 $ 3.30 $ 3.30 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.13 1.07 0.92 0.88 By product credits (0.13 ) (0.09 ) Treatment charges 0.14 0.14 0.20 0.20 Unit net cash costs 1.14 1.21 1.03 1.08 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.33 0.32 0.32 0.32 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.07 0.06 0.14 0.14 Total unit costs 1.54 1.59 1.49 1.54 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.15 0.15 0.06 0.06 Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Gross profit per pound $ 1.16 $ 1.11 $ 1.85 $ 1.80 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,521 1,521 1,177 1,177 a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) increased to $1.14 per pound of copper in 2008, compared with $1.03 per pound for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, reflecting production cost increases associated with higher mining costs and milling rates and higher energy, sulphuric acid and other commodity based input costs. These increases were partly offset by higher volumes, higher by product credits and lower treatment charges during 2008. The change in noncash and nonrecurring costs for 2008 primarily reflects lower purchase accounting impacts related to increased carrying values of acquired inventory, which totaled $46 million ($0.03 per pound) in 2008 and $169 million ($0.14 per pound) in 2007. Indonesia Mining Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg minerals district. We own 90.64 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, including 9.36 percent owned through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama. PT Freeport Indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver. Substantially all of PT Freeport Indonesias copper concentrates are sold under long term contracts, approximately one half of its concentrate production is sold to affiliated smelters, Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting (PT Freeport Indonesias 25 percent owned copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia refer to Note 3 for further discussion), and the remainder to other customers. PT Freeport Indonesia operates under an agreement, called a Contract of Work, with the Government of Indonesia that allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in a 24,700 acre area called Block A located in Papua, Indonesia (refer to Note 15 for further discussion). Under the Contract of Work, PT Freeport Indonesia also conducts exploration activities in an approximate 500,000 acre area called Block B in Papua. All of PT Freeport Indonesias proven and probable mineral reserves and current mining operations, including the Grasberg minerals district, are located in Block A. We have established certain unincorporated joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc (Rio Tinto), an international mining company with headquarters in London, England. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021 in Block A of PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work, and, after 2021, a 40 percent interest in all production from Block A. Refer to Note 3 for further discussion of joint ventures with Rio Tinto. 88 Table of Contents As originally reported in January 2006, we received and responded to requests for U.S. governmental authorities related to PT Freeport Indonesias support of Indonesian security institutions. In May 2009, we were notified by the SEC that the U.S. governments investigation has been completed and no action has been recommended. Since July 2009, there have been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at the Grasberg mining complex, including an incident in January 2010. In connection with these incidents, there have been three fatalities (including a PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. See Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009, for further discussion of these matters. Refer to Note 14 for information on contingencies at our Indonesia mining operations. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: 2009 2008 2007 Consolidated Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,412 1,094 1,151 Sales 1,400 1,111 1,131 Average realized price per pound $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 3.32 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 2,568 1,163 2,198 Sales 2,543 1,182 2,185 Average realized price per ounce $ 994 $ 861 $ 681 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day): Grasberg open pita 166,300 129,800 159,100 Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground minea 72,000 63,100 53,500 Total 238,300 192,900 212,600 Average ore grade: Copper (percent) 0.98 0.83 0.82 Gold (grams per metric ton) 1.30 0.66 1.24 Recovery rates (percent): Copper 90.6 90.1 90.5 Gold 83.7 79.9 86.2 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 1,641 1,109 1,211 Gold (thousands of ounces) 2,984 1,163 2,608 a. Amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at PT Freeport Indonesias mill facilities from each producing mine. 2009 Compared with 2008 At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold. PT Freeport Indonesias share of sales increased to 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.5 million ounces of gold in 2009, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold in 2008, as a result of mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2009, including accelerated mining of a higher grade section that was previously scheduled to be mined in future periods. PT Freeport Indonesias sales for 2010 are expected to approximate 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.7 million ounces of gold, which is lower than 2009 volumes, as a result of transitioning to a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit in 2010. Anticipated changes in ore grades throughout the year are expected to result in variability in quarterly volumes. Approximately 60 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias copper and gold production is expected in the second half of 2010. 89 Table of Contents 2008 Compared with 2007 PT Freeport Indonesias share of sales totaled 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold in 2008, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 2.2 million ounces of gold in 2007. Lower gold sales volumes in 2008 resulted from mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first nine months of 2008. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper/per Ounce of Gold The following tables summarize the unit net cash (credits) costs and gross profit per pound of copper and per ounce of gold at our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Refer to Production Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Compared with 2008 2009 2008 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Product Method Copper Gold Method Copper Gold Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 2.65 $ 2.65 $ 993.72 $ 2.36 $ 2.36 $ 861.43 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.05 0.62 231.57 1.59 1.13 412.72 Gold and silver credits (1.86 ) (0.97 ) Treatment charges 0.22 0.13 49.18 0.24 0.17 62.69 Royalty on metals 0.10 0.06 23.18 0.10 0.07 26.50 Unit net cash (credits) costs (0.49 ) 0.81 303.93 0.96 1.37 501.91 Depreciation and amortization 0.20 0.11 43.36 0.20 0.14 52.09 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.03 0.02 5.93 0.03 0.02 7.18 Total unit (credits) costs (0.26 ) 0.94 353.22 1.19 1.53 561.18 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.04 0.04 2.12 0.09 0.09 5.86 PT Smelting intercompany profit (0.04 ) (0.02 ) (8.45 ) 0.01 0.01 4.18 Gross profit per pound/ounce $ 2.91 $ 1.73 $ 634.17 $ 1.27 $ 0.93 $ 310.29 Consolidated sales Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,400 1,400 1,111 1,111 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) 2,543 1,182 Because of the fixed nature of a large portion of PT Freeport Indonesias costs, unit costs vary significantly from period to period depending on volumes of copper and gold sold during the period. Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) decreased to a net credit of $0.49 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with a net cost of $0.96 per pound in 2008, reflecting higher gold and silver credits ($0.89 per pound) resulting from higher gold sales volumes and prices in 2009, and lower site production and delivery costs ($0.54 per pound) primarily associated with higher copper sales volumes and lower commodity based input costs. Treatment charges vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper, and royalties vary with the volume of metals sold and the prices of copper and gold. Because the majority of PT Freeport Indonesias costs are fixed, unit costs vary with volumes sold and the price of gold. Assuming achievement of current sales volume estimates, average gold prices of $1,100 per ounce in 2010, and estimates for energy costs, currency exchange rates and other cost factors, we estimate that average unit net cash costs for PT Freeport Indonesia (net of gold and silver credits) would approximate $0.21 per pound of copper in 2010. Unit net cash costs for 2010 are expected to be higher, compared with 2009, primarily because of lower 90 Table of Contents projected sales volumes and higher commodity based input costs. Each $50 per ounce change in average gold prices during the year would have an approximate $0.07 per pound impact on PT Freeport Indonesias 2010 unit net cash costs. 2008 Compared with 2007 2008 2007 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Product Method Copper Gold Method Copper Gold Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 2.36 $ 2.36 $ 861.43 $ 3.32 $ 3.32 $ 680.74 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.59 1.13 412.72 1.19 0.85 172.23 Gold and silver credits (0.97 ) (1.36 ) Treatment charges 0.24 0.17 62.69 0.34 0.24 49.45 Royalty on metals 0.10 0.07 26.50 0.12 0.08 17.05 Unit net cash costs 0.96 1.37 501.91 0.29 1.17 238.73 Depreciation and amortization 0.20 0.14 52.09 0.17 0.12 25.54 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.03 0.02 7.18 0.04 0.03 5.90 Total unit costs 1.19 1.53 561.18 0.50 1.32 270.17 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.09 0.09 5.86 0.03 0.03 1.07 PT Smelting intercompany profit 0.01 0.01 4.18 0.01 0.01 1.71 Gross profit per pound/ounce $ 1.27 $ 0.93 $ 310.29 $ 2.86 $ 2.04 $ 413.35 Consolidated sales Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,111 1,111 1,131 1,131 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,182 2,185 Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) increased to $0.96 per pound of copper in 2008, compared with $0.29 per pound in 2007, reflecting lower gold and silver credits associated with lower gold volumes in 2008, higher input costs, including higher mining rates and energy costs, and also reflected the impact of changes in cost sharing with our joint venture partner. Partly offsetting these increases were lower treatment charges, which vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper. Africa Mining Africa mining includes the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the DRC. We own an effective 57.75 percent interest in Tenke and are the operator of the project. The Tenke mine includes open pit mining, leaching and SX/EW operations. Copper production from the Tenke mine is sold as copper cathode. In addition to copper, the Tenke mine produces cobalt hydroxide. Construction activities for the initial development project are complete. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and Tenke achieved targeted copper production rates in September 2009. Start up and quality issues continue to be addressed in the cobalt circuit and sustained targeted production rates are expected to be reached during 2010. Current operations are designed to produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year. Refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion of the Tenke Fungurume project. We are continuing to work cooperatively with the DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review but cannot predict the timing or the outcome of this process. The contract review process has not affected our development schedule and we are continuing to operate pursuant to the terms of our contract. We believe that the contract is fair and equitable, complies with Congolese law and is enforceable without modifications. Refer to Note 15 for further discussion. See Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009, for further discussion of these matters. 91 Table of Contents Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Africa mining operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. 2009a Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 154 Sales 130 Average realized price per pound $ 2.85 Ore milled (metric tons per day) 7,300 Average ore grade (percent) 3.69 Copper recovery rate (percent) 92.1 a. Results for 2009 represent mining operations which began production in March 2009. Tenkes sales volumes are expected to approximate 240 million pounds of copper and over 20 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2010. The high grades of copper and cobalt in the ore at the Tenke mine are expected to result in an attractive cost structure once the full operation reaches design capacity. Upon reaching design capacity in the copper and cobalt circuits and assuming average cobalt prices of $10 per pound, average unit net cash costs for Tenke are targeted to be $0.50 per pound of copper. Each $2 per pound change in average cobalt prices would have an approximate $0.12 per pound impact on Tenkes unit net cash costs. We will incorporate Tenke in our consolidated unit net cash cost disclosure upon completion of ramp up activities, expected during 2010. Pursuant to our agreement with Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin), we were responsible for funding our share (70 percent) of project development costs and 100 percent of certain cost overruns on the initial Tenke Fungurume project. We and Lundin will be repaid our advances prior to distributions to shareholders of Tenke Fungurume. Accordingly, we will receive a disproportionate share of cash flow until the cost overrun financing and advances are repaid. Molybdenum Our Molybdenum operation is an integrated producer of molybdenum, with mining, sulfide ore concentrating, roasting and processing facilities that produce high purity, molybdenum based chemicals, molybdenum metal powder and metallurgical products, which are sold to customers around the world, and includes the wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities. The Henderson underground mine produces high purity, chemical grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value added molybdenum chemical products. The Molybdenum operation also includes the wholly owned Climax molybdenum mine in Colorado, which has been on care and maintenance status since 1995; a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from our Henderson mine and from our North and South America copper mines that produce molybdenum as a by product; and related conversion facilities that, at times, roast and or process material on a toll basis. Toll arrangements require the tolling customer to deliver appropriate molybdenum bearing material to our facilities for processing into a product that is returned to the customer, who pays us for processing their material into the specified products. In response to market conditions during fourth quarter 2008, we suspended construction activities associated with the project to restart the Climax molybdenum mine, which would have an annual capacity of 30 million pounds with expansion options. We will continue to monitor market conditions to determine timing for restarting construction of this project; once a decision is made to resume construction activities, the project could be completed within 18 months. Estimated remaining costs for the project approximate $350 million. 92 Table of Contents Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the Molybdenum operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. 2009 2008 2007a Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productionb 27 40 39 Sales, excluding purchasesc 58 71 69 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day) 14,900 24,100 24,000 Average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.25 0.23 0.23 Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 27 40 39 a. The Molybdenum operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Reflects production at the Henderson molybdenum mine. c. Includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. Beginning in fourth quarter 2008, molybdenum markets were significantly affected by the downturn in economic conditions, which required us to operate the Henderson molybdenum mine at reduced rates during 2009. However, conditions have begun to improve and as a result Henderson was operating at 80 percent capacity at December 31, 2009, compared with 60 percent capacity during most of 2009. Molybdenum sales volumes decreased to 58 million pounds in 2009, compared with 71 million pounds in 2008, because of lower demand. For 2010, molybdenum sales volumes are expected to approximate 60 million pounds. We will continue to review operating plans and adjust operating rates to reflect market conditions. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of molybdenum is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Molybdenum The following tables summarize the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of molybdenum at our Henderson molybdenum mine for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 2008 2007a Revenues $ 11.69 $ 29.27 $ 27.12 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 5.44 5.36 4.37 Unit net cash costs 5.44 5.36 4.37 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.98 4.25 2.55 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.03 0.18 b 0.05 Total unit costs 6.45 9.79 6.97 Gross profit per poundc $ 5.24 $ 19.48 $ 20.15 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)d 27 40 31 93 Table of Contents a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. b. Includes charges of $0.03 per pound in 2008 associated with LCM inventory adjustments. c. Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum segment includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. d. Reflects molybdenum produced by the Henderson molybdenum mine. Hendersons unit net cash costs were $5.44 per pound of molybdenum in 2009, $5.36 per pound in 2008 and $4.37 per pound in 2007. Hendersons unit net cash costs were unfavorably impacted in 2009 by lower production volumes, partly offset by the impact of cost reduction efforts. Higher costs in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected higher input costs, including outside services, supplies and energy. Assuming achievement of current 2010 sales estimates, we estimate that the 2010 average unit net cash costs for Henderson would approximate $5.50 per pound of molybdenum. The decrease in Hendersons depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, reflects the impact of long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). The increase in Hendersons depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected changes in purchase accounting impacts associated with adjustments to the estimated fair values of acquired property, plant and equipment, which were based on preliminary estimates in 2007 and finalized in first quarter 2008. Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned subsidiary located in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes. PT Freeport Indonesia sells copper concentrate and the South America copper mines sell copper concentrate and copper cathode to Atlantic Copper. Through downstream integration, we are assured placement of a significant portion of our concentrate production. During 2009, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 35 percent of its concentrate requirements from PT Freeport Indonesia and approximately 25 percent from our South America mines. Smelting and refining charges consist of a base rate and, in certain contracts, price participation based on copper prices. Treatment charges for smelting and refining copper concentrates represent a cost to PT Freeport Indonesia and our South America copper mines and income to Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting, our 25 percent owned smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. Thus, higher treatment and refining charges benefit our smelter operations at Atlantic Copper and adversely affect our mining operations in Indonesia and South America. Our North America copper mines are not significantly affected by changes in treatment and refining charges because these operations are fully integrated with our Miami smelter located in Arizona. Atlantic Copper had an operating loss of $56 million in 2009 compared to operating income of $10 million in 2008 and $3 million in 2007. The decrease in Atlantic Coppers operating results during 2009 primarily reflected lower sulphuric acid revenues resulting from lower prices. We defer recognizing profits on PT Freeport Indonesias and our South America copper mines sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias sales to PT Smelting until final sales to third parties occur. Changes in these net deferrals resulted in net reductions to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders totaling $109 million ($0.23 per share) in 2009, compared with net additions of $65 million ($0.17 per share) in 2008 and $8 million ($0.02 per share) in 2007. At December 31, 2009, our net deferred profits on PT Freeport Indonesias and the South America copper mines inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income after taxes and noncontrolling interests totaled $137 million. CURRENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS We have several projects and potential opportunities to expand our production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large scale ore bodies. During fourth quarter 2008, we deferred several project development activities because of the downturn in global economic conditions. Major development projects for 2009 consisted of underground development in the Grasberg minerals district and the Tenke Fungurume project (for which 94 Table of Contents construction activities on the initial project are complete). During fourth quarter 2009, we announced that we are resuming certain project development activities. Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions. North America Copper Mines Miami Restart. During fourth quarter 2009, we initiated plans to restart limited mining activities at the Miami copper mine in Arizona, which will improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site. During the approximate five year mine life, we expect to ramp up production to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by the second half of 2011. The capital investment for this project is expected to approximate $40 million, which is lower that the initial estimate of $100 million because we intend to transfer existing mining equipment from other North America sites, rather than purchasing new equipment. Morenci Mill Restart. We are initiating activities to restart the Morenci mill in Arizona, which was temporarily idled in February 2009 in response to market conditions, to process available sulfide material currently being mined. Copper concentrate production is expected to begin in second quarter 2010, with mill throughput initially expected to approximate 30,000 metric tons per day, or approximately 60 percent of total mill capacity. Twin Buttes. In December 2009, we purchased property adjacent to our Sierrita operations primarily from Twin Buttes Properties, Inc. for $200 million. The property includes the Twin Buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994 and contains mineralized material of approximately 0.7 billion metric tons with average grades of 0.43 percent for copper and 0.024 percent for molybdenum. The purchase provides significant synergies in the Sierrita district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for Sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. We plan to conduct studies to incorporate the Twin Buttes resources in our future plans to determine the optimum development plans for the district. South America Copper Mines El Abra Sulfide Ore. We have resumed construction activities associated with the development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra that will extend the mine life by over ten years. Production from the sulfide ore, which will ramp up to approximately 300 million pounds of copper per year, is expected to begin in 2012 and will replace the current oxide ore copper production that is expected to decline over the next several years. The project will use a portion of the existing facilities to process the additional sulfide ore. The total aggregate capital investment for this project (which has been updated to incorporate recent foreign currency exchange rates and other cost increases) is expected to total $700 million through 2015, of which approximately $500 million is for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in 2012. Aggregate project costs of $75 million have been incurred as of December 31, 2009 (most of which were incurred prior to the end of 2008). Cerro Verde Expansion. We have commenced a project to optimize throughput at the existing Cerro Verde concentrator. This project, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2010, is designed to add 30 million pounds of additional copper production per year by increasing mill throughput from 108,000 metric tons of ore per day to 120,000 metric tons of ore per day. The aggregate capital investment for this project is expected to total approximately $50 million. We continue to study the potential for a major expansion at Cerro Verde. Indonesia We have several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district, including development of the large scale, high grade underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit. In addition, we have completed the feasibility study for the Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ). Based on current estimates, we expect aggregate expenditures for underground mine development in the Grasberg minerals district to average approximately $450 million annually during the next 15 years. These costs will be shared with Rio Tinto in accordance with our joint venture agreement. Considering the long term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates. In addition to the mine development costs above, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once Grasberg open pit operations cease. Substantially all of these expenditures will be made between 2017 and 2029. We continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our reserves. 95 Table of Contents The following discussion provides additional information on these current projects, including the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, the Grasberg Block Cave and Big Gossan underground mines, a further expansion of the DOZ underground mine and development of the DMLZ ore body. Common Infrastructure and Grasberg Block Cave. In 2004, PT Freeport Indonesia commenced its Common Infrastructure project to provide access to its large undeveloped underground ore bodies located in the Grasberg minerals district through a tunnel system located approximately 400 meters deeper than its existing underground tunnel system. In addition to providing access to our underground ore bodies, the tunnel system will enable PT Freeport Indonesia to conduct future exploration in prospective areas associated with currently identified ore bodies. The tunnel system has reached the Big Gossan terminal and we are proceeding with development of the lower Big Gossan infrastructure. We have also advanced development of the Grasberg spur and have completed the tunneling required to reach the Grasberg underground ore body. During 2009, we continued development of the Grasberg Block Cave terminal infrastructure and mine access. In 2008, we completed the feasibility study for the development of the Grasberg Block Cave underground mine, which accounts for over one third of our reserves in Indonesia. Production at the Grasberg Block Cave mine is currently scheduled to commence at the end of mining the Grasberg open pit, which is expected to continue until mid 2016. The timing of the underground Grasberg Block Cave mine development will continue to be assessed. Based on the 2008 feasibility study, aggregate mine development capital for the Grasberg Block Cave mine and associated Common Infrastructure is expected to approximate $3.6 billion to be incurred between 2008 and 2021, with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $3.4 billion. These estimates are higher than the aggregate $3.1 billion previously reported as certain costs previously considered as operating in the feasibility study were determined to be capital costs to conform with our current accounting policies for underground mines. Aggregate project costs totaling $127 million have been incurred through December 31, 2009, of which $83 million was incurred during 2009. Targeted production rates once the Grasberg Block Cave mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 150,000 metric tons of ore per day. Big Gossan. The Big Gossan underground mine is a high grade deposit located near PT Freeport Indonesias existing milling complex. The Big Gossan mine is being developed as an open stope mine with backfill consisting of mill tailings and cement, an established mining methodology expected to be higher cost than the block cave method used at the DOZ mine. Production is designed to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by late 2012 (equal to average annual aggregate incremental production of 125 million pounds of copper and 65,000 ounces of gold, with PT Freeport Indonesia receiving 60 percent of these amounts). The aggregate capital investment for this project is currently estimated at approximately $480 million, of which $377 million has been incurred through December 31, 2009, including $41 million during 2009. DOZ Expansion. In mid 2007, PT Freeport Indonesia completed an expansion of the DOZ underground operation to allow a sustained rate of 50,000 metric tons of ore per day. PT Freeport Indonesias further expansion of the DOZ mine to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day is substantially complete. The capital cost for this expansion approximated $100 million, with PT Freeport Indonesias 60 percent share totaling approximately $60 million. The success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the worlds largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of PT Freeport Indonesias large scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. DMLZ. The DMLZ ore body lies below the DOZ mine at the 2,590 meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the Ertsberg East Skarn system and neighboring Ertsberg porphyry. The DMLZ feasibility study was completed in fourth quarter 2009. We plan to mine the ore body using a block cave method with production beginning in 2020, near completion of mining at the DOZ. Drilling efforts continue to determine the extent of this ore body. We continue to develop the Common Infrastructure project and tunnels from mill level. In 2009, we completed a portion of the spur to the DMLZ mine and reached the edge of the DMLZ terminal. Aggregate mine development capital costs for the DMLZ are expected to approximate $2.1 billion with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $1.2 billion, which are expected to be incurred from 2009 to 2020. Aggregate project costs totaling $25 million have been incurred through December 31, 2009. Targeted production rates once the DMLZ mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. 96 Table of Contents Africa Mining Tenke Fungurume. Construction activities for the approximate $2 billion initial project are complete. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and achieved targeted copper production rates in September 2009. Start up and quality issues continue to be addressed in the cobalt circuit and sustained targeted production rates are expected to be reached during 2010. Current operations are designed to produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year. The initial Tenke Fungurume project was designed and constructed in a world class fashion, using modern technology and following international standards for environmental management, occupational safety and social responsibility. The facilities include impermeable lined tailing storage and waste water treatment ponds, and we have made significant investments in infrastructure in the region, including a national road and improvements in power generation and transmission systems. Our social programs include local micro enterprise businesses, agricultural capacity building initiatives, malaria abatement, potable drinking water wells, new medical facilities and several new schools. The project will continue to provide important benefits to the Congolese through employment and the provision of local services and to the DRC government through substantial tax, royalty and dividend payments. We continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of this highly prospective district. These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion. In our recoverable proven and probable reserve estimates for 2009, we were successful in adding 2.6 billion pounds of copper reserves and 0.08 billion pounds of cobalt reserves. Recoverable proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2009, approximate 135 million metric tons of ore with average grades of 3.13 percent for copper and 0.33 percent for cobalt, which equates to recoverable reserves of 8.4 billion pounds of copper and 0.78 billion pounds of cobalt. We commenced a feasibility study in fourth quarter 2009 to evaluate a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and potentially increasing capacity by approximately 50 percent. The feasibility study is expected to be completed by mid year 2010. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our production levels, production costs, cash payments for income taxes and interest, other working capital changes and other factors. As a result of weak economic conditions, we revised our operating plans at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 to protect liquidity while preserving our large mineral resources and growth options for the longer term (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). However, strong operating performance and rising copper prices have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position during 2009, allowing us to manage volatile conditions effectively, reduce debt and reinstate cash dividends to shareholders, while maintaining our future growth opportunities. In addition, we have announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). We view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirement for copper in the worlds economy and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. Based on current mine plans and subject to future copper, gold and molybdenum prices, we expect estimated 2010 operating cash flows to be greater than our budgeted capital expenditures, expected debt payments, dividends, noncontrolling interest distributions and other cash requirements. Cash and Cash Equivalents At December 31, 2009, we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $2.7 billion. The following table reflects the U.S. and international components of consolidated cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions): 2009 2008 Cash at domestic companiesa $ 1,522 $ 95 Cash at international operations 1,134 777 Total consolidated cash and cash equivalents 2,656 872 Less: Noncontrolling interests share (300 ) (267 ) Cash, net of noncontrolling interests share 2,356 605 Less: Withholding taxes and other (171 ) (151 ) Net cash available to FCX $ 2,185 $ 454 97 Table of Contents a. Includes cash at our parent company and North America operations. Operating Activities During 2009, we generated operating cash flows totaling $4.4 billion, net of $770 million used for working capital requirements, which included approximately $600 million related to settlement of final pricing with customers on 2008 provisionally priced copper sales. Operating cash flows in 2008 totaled $3.4 billion, net of $965 million used for working capital requirements, which included $598 million to settle the 2007 copper price protection program contract, and operating cash flows in 2007 totaled $6.2 billion, including $1.1 billion from working capital sources. Operating cash flows for 2009 were higher than in 2008 primarily because of lower operating costs and higher gold prices and sales volumes. Operating cash flows for 2008 were lower than in 2007 primarily because of higher operating costs and higher working capital requirements. Consolidated revenues, operating cash flows and net income vary significantly with fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum, sales volumes and other factors. Refer to Overview and Outlook for further discussion of projected 2010 operating cash flows. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $1.6 billion in 2009 (including $1.0 billion for major projects and a property acquisition), $2.7 billion in 2008 (including $1.6 billion for major projects) and $1.8 billion in 2007 (including $0.8 billion for major projects). The decrease in capital expenditures in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the effects of the decision to defer capital spending for several projects, lower capital spending for the initial Tenke Fungurume development project (for which construction activities are complete) and reduced spending for sustaining capital. The increase in capital expenditures in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected higher costs associated with our major development projects. During fourth quarter 2009, we announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion of these projects). Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors. Refer to Overview and Outlook for further discussion of projected 2010 capital expenditures. Other Investing Activities. During 2008, our global reclamation and remediation trusts decreased by $430 million resulting primarily from reimbursement of previously incurred costs for reclamation and environmental activities. On March 19, 2007, we issued 136.9 million shares of common stock and paid $13.9 billion (net of cash acquired) to acquire Phelps Dodge (refer to Note 18 for further discussion). During 2007, we received net proceeds of $597 million associated with the sale of Phelps Dodge International Corporation (PDIC) (refer to Note 19 for further discussion), and also received proceeds totaling $260 million primarily related to sales of marketable securities. Financing Activities Equity and Debt Transactions. In February 2009, we completed a public offering of 26.8 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $28.00 per share, which generated gross proceeds of $750 million (net proceeds of approximately $740 million). Net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facilities, working capital and capital expenditures. In December 2008, through privately negotiated transactions, we induced conversion of 0.3 million shares of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock into 5.8 million shares of FCX common stock. To induce conversion of these shares, we issued to the holders an additional 1.0 million shares of FCX common stock valued at $22 million. In September 2009, we called for the redemption of the remaining 0.8 million shares of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, which converted into 17.9 million shares of FCX common stock; the remaining 1,025 shares were redeemed for approximately $1 million in cash. Refer to Note 12 for further discussion of these transactions. In July 2008, our Board of Directors (the Board) approved an increase in the open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. During third quarter 2008, we purchased 6.3 million shares of our common stock for $500 million ($79.15 per share average) under this program; however, because of financial market turmoil and the declines in copper and molybdenum prices, in September 2008, we suspended purchases of our 98 Table of Contents common stock under the program. There are 23.7 million shares remaining under this program, and the timing of future purchases of our common stock is dependent on many factors, including our operating results; cash flows and financial position; copper, gold and molybdenum prices; the price of our common shares; and general economic and market conditions. At December 31, 2009, we had 430 million common shares outstanding; assuming conversion of our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which automatically converts on May 1, 2010, we would have between 469 and 477 million common shares outstanding, depending on the applicable average market price of our common stock (refer to Note 12 for further discussion). Total debt approximated $6.3 billion at December 31, 2009, $7.4 billion at December 31, 2008, and $7.2 billion at December 31, 2007. We have revolving credit facilities available through March 2012, which are composed of (i) a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility available to FCX and (ii) a $0.5 billion revolving credit facility available to both FCX and PT Freeport Indonesia. Interest on the revolving credit facilities accrues at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.00 percent, subject to an increase or decrease in the interest rate margin based on the credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investor Services. At December 31, 2009, we had no borrowings and $39 million of letters of credit issued under the facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ($961 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). The revolving credit facilities contain restrictions on the amount available for dividend payments, purchases of our common stock and certain debt prepayments (refer to Note 10 for further discussion). However, these restrictions do not apply as long as availability under the revolvers plus domestic cash exceeds $750 million. At December 31, 2009, we had availability under the revolvers plus available domestic cash (as defined by the revolving credit facility) totaling approximately $3.4 billion. In addition, the indenture governing our senior notes used to finance the Phelps Dodge acquisition contains restrictions on incurring debt, making restricted payments and selling assets (refer to Note 10 for further discussion). In April 2008, Standard & Poors Rating Services and Fitch Ratings raised our corporate credit rating and the ratings on our unsecured debt to BBB (investment grade). As a result of the upgrade of our unsecured debt to investment grade, these covenants are currently suspended. However, to the extent the rating is downgraded below investment grade, the covenants would again become effective. During 2009, we repaid $1.0 billion in debt, including $727 million of senior debt at a cost of $768 million, consisting of the August 2009 redemption of 6% Senior Notes and the open market purchases of our 8.25% Senior Notes, our 8.375% Senior Notes and our 8% Senior Notes (refer to Note 10 for further discussion of these transactions). These transactions will result in annual interest cost savings of approximately $56 million. Losses on early extinguishment of debt totaled $48 million ($43 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.09 per share) for 2009. From January 1, 2010, through February 25, 2010, we repaid an additional $269 million of our 8.25% Senior Notes and our 8.375% Senior Notes through open market purchases at a cost of $293 million. Losses on early extinguishment of debt are expected to total $27 million in first quarter 2010 for these 2010 transactions. In February 2008, we purchased, in an open market transaction, $33 million of our 9% Senior Notes for $46 million. As shown in the summary table below, we have no significant debt maturities in the near term; however, we may consider additional opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities or redeem our currently redeemable Senior Floating Rate Notes (in millions). 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Senior notes $ $ 89 $ $ $ $ 6,064 Equipment loans and other 16 4 14 1 1 157 $ 16 $ 93 $ 14 $ 1 $ 1 $ 6,221 March 2007 Acquisition of Phelps Dodge. In connection with financing the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, we used $2.5 billion of available cash (including acquired cash) and funded the remainder with term loan borrowings totaling $10.0 billion under a new $11.5 billion senior credit facility and from the offering of $6.0 billion in senior notes (which generated net proceeds of $5.9 billion). Following the close of the acquisition of Phelps Dodge and in 99 Table of Contents accordance with our plan to reduce debt, during 2007, we fully repaid the $10.0 billion in term loans (including incremental borrowings and payments of approximately $2.5 billion) using a combination of equity proceeds and internally generated cash flows. The equity transactions included the sale of 47.15 million shares of common stock at $61.25 per share for net proceeds of $2.8 billion and 28.75 million shares of 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock for net proceeds of $2.8 billion. In addition to repaying the term loans, we had net repayments of other debt totaling $325 million in 2007. Cash Dividends. The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Board. The amount of our cash dividend on our common stock is dependent upon our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. In December 2007, the Board increased the annual cash dividend on our common stock from $1.25 per share to $1.75 per share, and again in July 2008 to $2.00 per share. Because of the deterioration in copper and molybdenum prices and in general economic conditions, in December 2008, the Board suspended the cash dividend on our common stock; accordingly, there were no common stock dividends paid in 2009, compared with $693 million ($1.8125 per share) in 2008 and $421 million ($1.25 per share) in 2007. In October 2009, the Board reinstated an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $0.60 per share. On December 30, 2009, FCX declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, which was paid on February 1, 2010, to common shareholders of record at the close of business on January 15, 2010. The Board will continue to review our financial policy on an ongoing basis. Preferred stock dividends paid totaled $229 million in 2009, $255 million in 2008 and $175 million in 2007 representing dividends on our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock and 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (refer to Note 12 for further discussion). On December 30, 2009, FCX declared a regular quarterly dividend of $1.6785 per share on our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which was paid on February 1, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on January 15, 2010. On May 1, 2010, our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will automatically convert into between 39 million and 47 million shares of FCX common stock, depending on the applicable average market price of our common stock (refer to Note 12 for further discussion). Cash dividends and distributions paid to noncontrolling interests totaled $535 million in 2009, $730 million in 2008 and $967 million in 2007, reflecting dividends and distributions paid to the noncontrolling interest owners of PT Freeport Indonesia and our South America copper mines. OTHER CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS In addition to debt maturities, we have other contractual obligations, which we expect to fund with projected operating cash flows, availability under our revolving credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. A summary of these various obligations at December 31, 2009, follows (in millions): 2011 to 2013 to Total 2010 2012 2014 Thereafter Scheduled interest payment obligationsa $ 3,669 $ 471 $ 931 $ 927 $ 1,340 Reclamation and environmental obligationsb 4,849 206 312 249 4,082 Take or pay contractsc 2,447 1,390 675 242 140 Operating lease obligations 198 27 47 25 99 Atlantic Copper obligation to insurance companyd 72 10 20 20 22 PT Freeport Indonesia mine closure and reclamation funde 18 1 1 1 15 Total contractual cash obligationsf $ 11,253 $ 2,105 $ 1,986 $ 1,464 $ 5,698 a. Scheduled interest payment obligations were calculated using stated coupon rates for fixed rate debt and interest rates applicable at December 31, 2009, for variable rate debt. b. Represents estimated cash payments, on an undiscounted and unescalated basis, associated with reclamation and environmental activities. The timing and the amount of these payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities and as actual spending occurs. Refer to Note 14 for additional discussion of environmental and reclamation matters. c. Represents contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services that are defined by us as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. Take or pay contracts primarily comprise the procurement of copper concentrates and cathodes ($1.9 billion), transportation ($227 million) and oxygen ($178 million). Some of our take or pay contracts are settled based on the prevailing market rate for the service or commodity purchased, and in some cases, the amount of the actual obligation may change over time because of market conditions. Obligations for copper concentrates and cathodes provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at market based prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper and the North America copper mines. Transportation obligations are primarily for South 100 Table of Contents America contracted ocean freight rates and for North America natural gas transportation. Oxygen obligations provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at fixed prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper. d. In August 2002, Atlantic Copper complied with Spanish legislation by agreeing to fund 7.2 million euros annually for 15 years to an approved insurance company for an estimated 72 million euro contractual obligation to supplement amounts paid to certain retired employees. Atlantic Copper had $58 million recorded for this obligation at December 31, 2009. e. Represents PT Freeport Indonesias commitments to contribute amounts to a cash fund designed to accumulate at least $100 million, including interest, by the end of our Indonesian mining activities to pay for mine closure and reclamation. f. This table excludes certain other obligations in our consolidated balance sheets, including estimated funding for pension obligations as the funding may vary from year to year based on changes in the fair value of plan assets and actuarial assumptions and accrued liabilities totaling $157 million that relate to unrecognized tax benefits where the timing of settlement is not determinable. This table also excludes purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services, as purchase orders typically represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. In addition to our debt maturities and other contractual obligations, we have other commitments, which we expect to fund with projected operating cash flows, available credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. These include (i) PT Freeport Indonesias commitment to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development, (ii) Cerro Verdes local mining fund contributions equal to 3.75 percent of after tax profits, (iii) Tenke Fungurumes commitment to provide 0.3 percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations and (iv) other commercial commitments, including standby letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees (refer to Notes 14 and 15 for further discussion). ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS Environmental The cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. We had $1.5 billion at December 31, 2009, and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2008, recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for environmental obligations attributed to CERCLA or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. Refer to Note 14 for further information about environmental regulation, including significant environmental matters. During 2009, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners shares) of $289 million for programs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations, compared to $377 million in 2008 and $280 million in 2007 (which included $188 million incurred from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, related to the acquired Phelps Dodge operations). The decrease in environmental capital spending for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to completion of large projects in 2008, combined with reduced discretionary spending and extended project timelines. The increase in environmental capital spending for 2008, compared with 2007, primarily related to a full twelve months of Phelps Dodge expenditures in 2008, combined with increased expenditures for accelerated remediation efforts. For 2010, we expect to incur approximately $400 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2010 operating budget. Projected environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs for 2010 include a $40 million payment for settlement of litigation associated with Pinal Creek (refer to Note 14) made in 2010 and increases in discretionary project spending carried over from 2009. Asset Retirement Obligations We recognize AROs as liabilities when incurred, with the initial measurement at fair value. These liabilities, which are initially estimated based on discounted cash flow estimates, are accreted to full value over time through charges to income. Reclamation costs for future disturbances are recorded as an ARO in the period of disturbance. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible, long lived assets. We had recorded AROs totaling $731 million at December 31, 2009, and $712 million at December 31, 2008, in current and long term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. Spending on AROs totaled $28 million in 2009, $91 million in 2008 and $40 million in 2007. The decrease in ARO spending for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to extended project timelines which resulted in reduced required expenditures for 2009. The increase in ARO spending for 2008, compared with 2007, primarily related to a full twelve months of Phelps Dodge expenditures in 2008, combined with increased spending for large projects in 2008. For 2010, we expect to incur approximately $38 million for aggregate ARO payments. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. 101 Table of Contents DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS Commodity Price Risk Our consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, molybdenum, gold and other metals by our North and South America copper mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operation, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Consolidated revenues, operating cash flows and net income vary significantly with fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum, sales volumes and other factors. Based on projected 2010 consolidated sales volumes and assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,100 per ounce of gold and $12 per pound of molybdenum for the year, our consolidated operating cash flows for 2010 would approximate $5.3 billion, net of an estimated $0.4 billion of working capital requirements. Operating cash flows would be impacted by approximately $260 million for each $0.10 per pound change in copper prices, $50 million for each $50 per ounce change in gold prices and $45 million for each $1 per pound change in molybdenum prices. For 2009, more than half of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, approximately 25 percent as cathodes and approximately 21 percent as rod (principally from our North America operations). Substantially all concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME prices. We receive market prices based on prices in the specified future period, which results in price fluctuations recorded through revenues until the date of settlement. We record revenues and invoice customers at the time of shipment based on then current LME prices, which results in an embedded derivative on our provisional priced concentrate and cathode sales that is adjusted to fair value through earnings each period, using the period end forward prices, until the date of final pricing. To the extent final prices are higher or lower than what was recorded on a provisional basis, an increase or decrease to revenues is recorded each reporting period until the date of final pricing. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from higher prices received for contracts priced at current market rates and also from an increase related to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior years; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. At December 31, 2008, we had provisionally priced copper sales totaling 508 million pounds at our copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average of $1.39 per pound. Consolidated revenues for 2009 include net additions for adjustments related to these prior year copper sales of $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share), compared with an increase of $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.30 per share) in 2008 and a decrease of $42 million ($18 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.05 per share) in 2007. At December 31, 2009, we had provisionally priced copper sales totaling 378 million pounds of copper at our copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average price of $3.34 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. We estimate that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the December 31, 2009, provisional price recorded would have a net impact on our 2010 consolidated revenues of approximately $25 million ($12 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders). The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. On limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. We do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future. 102 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs and certain assets and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol and euro. Generally, our results are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Following is a summary of estimated annual payments and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs: 10% Change in Exchange Rate per $1 Exchange Rate at December 31, Estimated Annual Payments (in millions)b 2009 2008 2007 (in local currency) (in millions)a Increase Decrease Indonesia Rupiah 9,420 10,850 9,390 2.5 trillion $ 265 $ (24 ) $ 30 Australian dollar 1.12 1.43 1.14 200 million $ 178 $ (16 ) $ 20 South America Chilean peso 506 648 498 250 billion $ 494 $ (45 ) $ 55 Peruvian nuevo sol 2.89 3.17 3.05 250 million $ 87 $ (8 ) $ 10 Atlantic Copper Euro 0.69 0.72 0.68 120 million $ 173 $ (16 ) $ 19 a. Based on December 31, 2009, exchange rates. b. Reflects the estimated impact on annual operating costs assuming a 10 percent increase or decrease in the exchange rate reported at December 31, 2009. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2009, we had total debt of $6.3 billion, of which approximately 19 percent was variable rate debt with interest rates based on LIBOR or the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR). The table below presents average interest rates for our scheduled maturities of principal for our outstanding debt and the related fair values at December 31, 2009 (in millions, except percentages): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ $ 89 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 5,066 $ 5,552 Average interest rate 8.7 % 5.8 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 8.3 % 8.3 % Variable rate debt $ 16 $ 4 $ 13 $ $ $ 1,155 $ 1,183 Average interest rate 1.4 % 2.1 % 1.0 % 4.3 % 4.2 % NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS We do not expect the impact of recently issued accounting standards to have a significant impact on our future financial statements and disclosures. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Refer to Note 15 for information on off balance sheet arrangements. 103 Table of Contents PRODUCT REVENUES AND PRODUCTION COSTS Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. We present gross profit per pound of copper using both a by product method and a co product method. We use the by product method in our presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of our revenues are copper revenues, (ii) we mine ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of our costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals we produce, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by our management and Board of Directors to monitor operations. In the co product method presentation below, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change. In both the by product and the co product method calculations, we show adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, we have reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as LCM inventory adjustments, stock based compensation costs, write offs of equipment or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. Gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by product method. Presentations under both the by product and co product methods are shown below together with reconciliations to amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2,823 $ 2,823 $ 274 $ 45 $ 3,142 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,483 1,364 142 22 1,528 By product creditsa (274 ) Treatment charges 102 100 2 102 Net cash costs 1,311 1,464 142 24 1,630 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 264 251 10 3 264 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 129 127 2 129 Total costs 1,704 1,842 154 27 2,023 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging 92 92 92 Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (100 ) (100 ) (100 ) Gross profit $ 1,111 $ 973 $ 120 $ 18 $ 1,111 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,142 $ 1,528 $ 264 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 129 N/A Treatment charges per above N/A 102 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging per above 92 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 1 152 16 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 c 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 c $ 1,014 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 105 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 4,382 $ 4,382 $ 892 $ 72 $ 5,346 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 2,681 2,326 374 35 2,735 By product creditsa (910 ) Treatment charges 134 130 4 134 Net cash costs 1,905 2,456 374 39 2,869 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 753 664 83 6 753 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 743 c 701 39 3 743 Total costs 3,401 3,821 496 48 4,365 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging (71 ) (71 ) (71 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (85 ) (83 ) (2 ) (85 ) Gross profit $ 825 $ 407 $ 394 $ 24 $ 825 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 5,346 $ 2,735 $ 753 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 743 c N/A Treatment charges per above N/A 134 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging per above (71 ) N/A N/A Eliminations and other (10 ) 96 17 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 d $ 1,782 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. Includes charges totaling $661 million for LCM inventory adjustments. d. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 106 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007a By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenumb Otherc Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,526 $ 3,526 $ 717 $ 47 $ 4,290 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,516 1,296 253 18 1,567 By product creditsb (713 ) Treatment charges 100 98 2 100 Net cash costs 903 1,394 253 20 1,667 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 487 418 67 2 487 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 361 341 4 16 361 Total costs 1,751 2,153 324 38 2,515 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging (203 ) (203 ) (203 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (56 ) (55 ) (1 ) (56 ) Gross profit $ 1,516 $ 1,115 $ 392 $ 9 $ 1,516 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported for the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,290 $ 1,567 $ 487 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 361 N/A Treatment charges per above N/A 100 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging per above (203 ) N/A N/A Eliminations and other 6 138 12 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 Africa mining 10 2 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 a. Reflects the results of the North America copper mines under FCX management. b. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. c. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. 107 Table of Contents South America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other a Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,768 $ 3,768 $ 167 $ 3,935 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,512 1,429 91 1,520 By product credits (159 ) Treatment charges 206 206 206 Net cash costs 1,559 1,635 91 1,726 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 275 267 8 275 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 28 28 28 Total costs 1,862 1,930 99 2,029 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 109 109 109 Other non inventoriable costs (31 ) (26 ) (5 ) (31 ) Gross profit $ 1,984 $ 1,921 $ 63 $ 1,984 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,935 $ 1,520 $ 275 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 28 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (206 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 109 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 1 15 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 b 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 b $ 1,014 a. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. b. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 108 Table of Contents South America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other a Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,910 $ 3,910 $ 216 $ 4,126 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,711 1,631 102 1,733 By product credits (194 ) Treatment charges 211 211 211 Net cash costs 1,728 1,842 102 1,944 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 508 483 25 508 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 103 b 100 3 103 Total costs 2,339 2,425 130 2,555 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 230 230 230 Other non inventoriable costs (37 ) (34 ) (3 ) (37 ) Gross profit $ 1,764 $ 1,681 $ 83 $ 1,764 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,126 $ 1,733 $ 508 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 103 b N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (211 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 230 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 21 18 3 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 c $ 1,782 a. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. b. Includes charges totaling $10 million for LCM inventory adjustments. c. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 109 Table of Contents South America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007a By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other b Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,882 $ 3,882 $ 123 $ 4,005 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,078 1,040 52 1,092 By product credits (109 ) Treatment charges 240 239 1 240 Net cash costs 1,209 1,279 53 1,332 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 377 364 13 377 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 171 170 1 171 Total costs 1,757 1,813 67 1,880 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 75 75 75 Other non inventoriable costs (28 ) (27 ) (1 ) (28 ) Gross profit $ 2,172 $ 2,117 $ 55 $ 2,172 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported for the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,005 $ 1,092 $ 377 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 171 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (240 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 75 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 39 14 1 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 Africa mining 10 2 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 a. Reflects the results of the South America copper mines under FCX management. b. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. 110 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 3,708 $ 3,708 $ 2,532 $ 74 $ 6,314 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,468 862 589 17 1,468 Gold and silver credits (2,606 ) Treatment charges 312 183 125 4 312 Royalty on metals 147 86 59 2 147 Net cash costs (679 ) 1,131 773 23 1,927 Depreciation and amortization 275 162 110 3 275 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 37 22 15 37 Total costs (367 ) 1,315 898 26 2,239 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 53 53 53 PT Smelting intercompany profit (54 ) (32 ) (21 ) (1 ) (54 ) Gross profit $ 4,074 $ 2,414 $ 1,613 $ 47 $ 4,074 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 6,314 $ 1,468 $ 275 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 37 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (312 ) N/A N/A Less: Royalty per above (147 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 53 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 a 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 a $ 1,014 a. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 111 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 2,628 $ 2,628 $ 1,025 $ 50 $ 3,703 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,762 1,252 487 23 1,762 Gold and silver credits (1,075 ) Treatment charges 268 190 74 4 268 Royalty on metals 113 80 31 2 113 Net cash costs 1,068 1,522 592 29 2,143 Depreciation and amortization 222 158 61 3 222 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 30 22 8 30 Total costs 1,320 1,702 661 32 2,395 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 90 90 90 PT Smelting intercompany profit 17 12 5 17 Gross profit $ 1,415 $ 1,028 $ 369 $ 18 $ 1,415 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,703 $ 1,762 $ 222 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 30 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (268 ) N/A N/A Less: Royalty per above (113 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 90 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 a $ 1,782 a. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 112 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2007 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 3,777 $ 3,777 $ 1,490 $ 48 $ 5,315 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,342 954 376 12 1,342 Gold and silver credits (1,538 ) Treatment charges 385 274 108 3 385 Royalty on metals 133 94 38 1 133 Net cash costs 322 1,322 522 16 1,860 Depreciation and amortization 199 141 56 2 199 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 46 33 12 1 46 Total costs 567 1,496 590 19 2,105 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 11 11 11 PT Smelting intercompany profit 13 10 3 13 Gross profit $ 3,234 $ 2,302 $ 903 $ 29 $ 3,234 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 5,315 $ 1,342 $ 199 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 46 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (385 ) N/A N/A Less: Royalty per above (133 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 11 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 Africa mining 10 2 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 113 Table of Contents Henderson Molybdenum Mine Product Revenues and Production Costs Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 a Revenues $ 317 $ 1,182 $ 853 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 148 216 137 Net cash costs 148 216 137 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 26 172 80 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 1 7 b 2 Total costs 175 395 219 Gross profitc $ 142 $ 787 $ 634 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Production Depreciation, (In millions) and Depletion and Revenues Delivery Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2009 Totals presented above $ 317 $ 148 $ 26 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 1 N/A Henderson mine 317 149 26 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsd 530 511 e 23 Molybdenum 847 660 49 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 e $ 1,014 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Totals presented above $ 1,182 $ 216 $ 172 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 7 b N/A Henderson mine 1,182 223 172 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsd 1,306 1,406 e 20 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 f $ 1,782 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Totals presented above $ 853 $ 137 $ 80 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 2 N/A Henderson mine 853 139 80 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsd 893 1,148 14 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 Africa mining 10 2 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, which represents the results of the Henderson molybdenum mine under FCX management. 114 Table of Contents b. Includes charges totaling $1 million for LCM inventory adjustments. c. Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum segment includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. d. Primarily includes amounts associated with the molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. e. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million in 2009 and $100 million in 2008. f. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Our discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future. Forward looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, production and sales volumes, unit net cash costs, operating cash flows, capital expenditures, mine production and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, anticipated environmental reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, reserve estimates, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, potential prepayments of debt and future dividend payments. Our discussion and analysis also includes forward looking statements regarding mineralized material not included in reserves. The mineralized material described in our discussion and analysis will not qualify as reserves until comprehensive engineering studies establish their economic feasibility. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineralized material not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves. Accuracy of the forward looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments. We caution readers that we assume no obligation to update the forward looking statements in this discussion and analysis and we do not intend to update the forward looking statements more frequently than quarterly. Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from results anticipated by forward looking statements include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, potential outcomes of the contract review process in the Democratic Republic of Congo, weather related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 115 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we have several projects in progress in the Grasberg mineral district, including development of the Common Infrastructure project, Grasberg Block Cave, the Big Gossan underground mine, a further expansion of the DOZ underground mine (which is substantially complete) and development of the Deep Mill Level Zone ore body. We also have an additional long term underground mine development project in the Grasberg minerals district for the Kucing Liar ore body, which is discussed below and is based on our latest mine plans and proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 2009. The Kucing Liar ore body lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the Grasberg open pit at the 2,605 meter elevation level. We expect to mine the Kucing Liar ore body using the block cave method. A pre feasibility study for the development of the Kucing Liar ore body was completed during 2009 and indicated aggregate capital costs of approximately $2.5 billion. Based on current estimates, we expect aggregate expenditures for underground mine development in the Grasberg minerals district to average approximately $450 million annually during the next 15 years. These costs will be shared with Rio Tinto in accordance with our joint venture agreement. Considering the long term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates. In addition to the mine development costs above, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once Grasberg open pit operations cease. Substantially all of these expenditures will be made between 2017 and 2029. We continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our reserves. SMELTING FACILITIES Atlantic Copper, S.A. Atlantic Copper is our wholly owned copper smelter and refinery located in Huelva, Spain. Atlantic Copper completed the last expansion of its production capacity in 1997. The design capacity of the smelter is 290,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity of 260,000 metric tons of copper per year. We have no present plans to expand Atlantic Coppers production capacity. Atlantic Coppers facilities are located on land concessions from the Huelva, Spain port authorities and expire in 2027. During 2009, Atlantic Copper treated 1,000,700 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 269,000 metric tons of copper anodes and 256,600 metric tons of copper cathodes. During 2008, Atlantic Copper treated 1,028,100 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 259,900 metric tons of copper anodes and 257,100 metric tons of copper cathodes. In June 2007, Atlantic Copper completed a scheduled 23 day maintenance turnaround. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every 12 years for Atlantic Copper, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds occurring in the interim. The next scheduled maintenance 25 Table of Contents activity at Atlantic Copper is in 2011. During 2009, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 35 percent of its concentrate requirements from PT Freeport Indonesia and approximately 25 percent from our South America copper mines at market prices. Atlantic Copper has experienced no significant operating problems. We made no capital contributions to Atlantic Copper from 2005 through 2009. We loan funds to Atlantic Copper from time to time, and at December 31, 2009, these loans totaled $381 million. Our net investment in Atlantic Copper at December 31, 2009, was approximately $70 million. PT Smelting. PT Freeport Indonesias 1991 COW required us to construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in Indonesia if we and the Indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. In 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of PT Smelting, an Indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation (Mitsubishi Materials), Mitsubishi Corporation (Mitsubishi) and Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd. (Nippon) own 25 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5 percent, and 5 percent, respectively, of the outstanding PT Smelting common stock. PT Smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. During 2006, PT Smelting completed an expansion of its production capacity to 275,000 metric tons of copper per year from 250,000 metric tons. PT Freeport Indonesias contract with PT Smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements necessary for PT Smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually (essentially the smelters original design capacity) on a priority basis. For the first 15 years of PT Smeltings commercial operations, beginning December 1998, PT Freeport Indonesia agreed that the combined treatment and refining charges (fees paid to smelters by miners) would approximate market rates, but will not fall below specified minimum rates. The minimum rate, applicable to the period April 27, 2008 to April 27, 2014, is to be determined annually and to be sufficient to cover PT Smeltings annual cash operating costs (net of credits and including costs of debt service) for 205,000 metric tons of copper. The maximum rate is $0.30 per pound. The agreement is an amendment to the long term contract, which was approved by the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Government of Indonesia in 2009. PT Freeport Indonesia also sells copper concentrate to PT Smelting at market rates, which are not subject to a minimum or maximum rate, for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. During 2009, PT Smelting treated 1,073,900 metric tons of concentrate and produced 310,200 metric tons of copper anodes and 286,000 metric tons of copper cathodes. During 2008, PT Smelting treated 978,100 metric tons of concentrate and produced 261,300 metric tons of copper anodes and 253,400 metric tons of copper cathodes. Higher volumes of anodes in 2009, compared to 2008, primarily reflect a 25 day maintenance turnaround in the second quarter of 2008. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every four years for PT Smelting, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. Miami Smelter. We own and operate a smelter at our Miami, Arizona mining operation. The smelter processes concentrate primarily from our Arizona mines. The smelter has been in production for over 80 years and has been upgraded during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with current air quality standards. Concentrate processed through the smelter totaled approximately 619,000 metric tons in 2009 and 719,000 metric tons in 2008. The Miami smelter completed a 40 day major maintenance turnaround in February 2009. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every 20 months for Miami, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. Sulphuric acid is a by product of smelting concentrates, and the Miami smelter is the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our U.S. leaching operations. OTHER PROPERTIES Rod & Refining Operations. Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in North America including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut and Miami, Arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper anode production from our smelter in Miami, Arizona, along with purchased anodes, at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all the copper anode we produce at Miami. Our El Paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. 26 Table of Contents Molybdenum Conversion Facilities. We process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as technical grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. We operate molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The conversion facility located at our Sierrita mine consists of two molybdenum roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a toll basis for third parties. The facility produces molybdenum oxide and related products. The Fort Madison, Iowa, facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphuric acid plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical conversion plant, which includes a wet chemicals plant, sublimation equipment and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. In the chemical plant, molybdic oxide is further refined into various high purity molybdenum chemicals for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. In addition to metallurgical oxide products, the Fort Madison facility produces ammonium dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum disulfide. The Rotterdam conversion facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid plant, metallurgical packaging facility and chemical conversion plant. The plant produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. Ammonium dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet chemicals plant. We also produce ferromolybdenum for worldwide customers at our conversion plant located in Stowmarket, United Kingdom. The plant is operated both as an internal and external customer tolling facility. SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS Energy (including electricity, diesel fuel, coal and natural gas), sulphuric acid and water are the principal raw materials used in our operations. Most of our energy is obtained from third parties under long term contracts. For additional information, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Sulphuric acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by product of the smelting process at our smelters. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties as needed. Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. COMPETITION We are one of the worlds largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. With respect to copper, which generated approximately 75 percent of our mining revenues in 2009, the top 10 producers comprise approximately 55 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. We currently rank second among those producers at approximately 10 percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. Our competitive position is based on the quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. We have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. Our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. The metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs. 27 Table of Contents LABOR MATTERS At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 28,400 people (approximately 11,900 in Indonesia, 8,400 in North America, 4,400 in South America, 2,900 in Africa and 800 in Europe and other locations). Additionally, we have contractors that have personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 8,600 at our Grasberg minerals district, 4,900 at our South America operations, 2,100 at Tenke Fungurume, 600 in North America and 400 at Atlantic Copper. Employees represented by unions are listed below, with the approximate number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements. Number of Union Number of Represented Location Unions Employees Expiration Date PT Freeport Indonesia Indonesia 1 6,794 September 2011 Tenke Fungurume DRC 2 2,927 May 2010 Cerro Verde Peru 1 1,023 August 2011 El Abra Chile 2 794 July 2012 Candelaria Chile 2 603 July 2013 Atlantic Copper Spain 2 402 December 2011 Bayway New Jersey 1 50 April 2010 Stowmarket United Kingdom 1 40 May 2011 Aurex Chile 1 33 December 2013 Rotterdam The Netherlands 2 22 March 2011 Chino New Mexico 1 14 November 2009a a. Negotiations are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of the expired contract. FM Services Company (FM Services), a wholly owned subsidiary of FCX, furnishes certain executive, administrative, financial, accounting, legal, tax and similar services to us. As of December 31, 2009, FM Services had 167 employees. FM Services employees also provide these services to two other publicly traded companies. ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS The costs of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, see Item 1A. Risk Factors; Item 3. Legal Proceedings; Note 1 and Note 14. COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS We have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate that are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. We continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs cultural preservation programs water and sewage treatment projects clean water access charitable donations 28 Table of Contents In December 2000, we endorsed the joint U.S. State Department British Foreign Office Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security (Voluntary Principles). Several major natural resources companies and international human rights organizations participated in developing the Voluntary Principles and have endorsed them. We participated in developing these principles and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. We believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. Nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. South America. Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. During 2006, as a result of discussions with local mayors in the Arequipa region, Cerro Verde agreed to contribute to the design and construction of domestic water and sewage treatment plants for the benefit of the region. These facilities are being designed in a modular fashion so that initial installations can be readily expanded in the future. We have funded approximately 150 million Peruvian nuevo soles (approximately $49 million) as of December 31, 2009, to a designated bank account to be used for financing Cerro Verdes share of the construction costs of these facilities. During 2006, the Peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in Peru will make annual contributions to local development funds for a five year period when copper prices exceed certain levels that are adjusted annually. The contribution is equal to 3.75 percent of after tax profits, of which 2.75 percent is contributed to a local mining fund and 1.00 percent to a regional mining fund. Cerro Verdes contributions totaled $28 million in both 2009 and 2008 and $49 million in 2007. Indonesia. In 1996, PT Freeport Indonesia established the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development (formerly the Freeport Fund for Irian Jaya Development), through which PT Freeport Indonesia has made available funding and technical assistance to support the economic, health, education and social development of the area. PT Freeport Indonesia has committed through 2011 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the Partnership Fund. Our share of contributions to the Partnership Fund totaled $59 million in 2009, $34 million in 2008 and $48 million in 2007. Our joint venture partner, Rio Tinto, also contributes to this fund and, including their share, the contributions totaled $69 million in 2009, $35 million in 2008 and $53 million in 2007. The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pembangunan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoro or LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of PT Freeport Indonesia on each board. The Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. Security Matters in Indonesia. Consistent with our COW in Indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As part of its security program, PT Freeport Indonesia maintains its own internal security department, which performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring the shipment of company goods through the airport and terminal, assisting in traffic control and aiding rescue operations. PT Freeport Indonesias civilian security employees (numbering approximately 725) are unarmed and perform duties consistent with their internal security role. PT Freeport Indonesias share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled approximately $18 million for 2009, $22 million for 2008 and $17 million for 2007. The security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy. PT Freeport Indonesia, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the Government of Indonesia for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals district has been designated by the Government of Indonesia as one of Indonesias vital national assets. This designation results in the police and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. The Government of Indonesia is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. From the outset of PT Freeport Indonesias operations, the government has looked to PT Freeport Indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited 29 Table of Contents resources of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in Papua. PT Freeport Indonesias financial support for the Indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol PT Freeport Indonesias roads and secure its operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT Freeport Indonesias obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. PT Freeport Indonesias share of support costs for the government provided security, currently involving approximately 3,000 Indonesian government security personnel located in the general area of our operations, was $10 million for 2009, $8 million for 2008 and $9 million for 2007. This supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. PT Freeport Indonesias capital costs for associated infrastructure was approximately $2 million in 2009 and less than $1 million a year in 2008 and 2007. Since July 2009, there have been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at the Grasberg mining complex, including an incident in January 2010. In connection with these incidents, there have been three fatalities (including a PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. See Item 1A. Risk Factors. As originally reported in January 2006, we received and responded to requests from U.S. governmental authorities related to PT Freeport Indonesias support of Indonesian security institutions. In May 2009, we were notified by the SEC that the U.S. governments investigation had been completed and no action has been recommended. Africa. Tenke Fungurume has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the Katanga province of the DRC. Initiatives that have commenced over the past three years include a malaria control program, construction and operational support for six elementary schools, installation of over 40 clean water wells throughout the concession as well as five villages outside the concession, a public sanitation (latrines and hand washing) program reaching over 2,000 households, a mobile clinic for rural villages, and economic development programs supporting local entrepreneurs, farmers and womens income generation, and literacy groups. We have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems. Additionally, we have committed to contribute 0.3 percent of net sales revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services, such as those pertaining to health, education and economic development. This fund will be a platform to work jointly with the local government and community to further assist them to fulfill their local development plans, meet basic community needs and promote good governance. Community development fund contributions for 2009 totaled approximately $1 million. Similar to our operations in Indonesia, Tenke Fungurume is required to engage government security institutions to assist with security matters at its concession area. In this regard, Tenke Fungurume provides food, housing, monetary allowances and logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. The total cost to Tenke Fungurume for this support, including in kind support, totaled less than $1 million in 2009. 30 Table of Contents ORE RESERVES Recoverable proven and probable reserves summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of December 31, 2009, in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. Proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. The term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term proven reserves means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. The term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Our reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. Estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2009, were determined using long term average prices of $1.60 per pound for copper, $550 per ounce for gold, $8.00 per pound for molybdenum, $12.00 per ounce for silver and $10.00 per pound for cobalt. The London spot metal prices for the past three years averaged $2.91 per pound for copper and $847 per ounce for gold, and molybdenum prices for the past three years averaged approximately $23 per pound. Recoverable Proven and Probable Reservesa at December 31, 2009 Copper Gold Molybdenum Silver Cobalt (billion pounds) (million ounces) (million pounds) (million ounces) (billion pounds) North America 27.7 0.2 2,072 56.5 South America 34.0 1.5 519 88.3 Indonesia 34.1 35.5 125.6 Africa 8.4 0.78 Consolidated basisb 104.2 37.2 2,591 270.4 0.78 Net equity interestc 83.0 33.6 2,350 224.1 0.45 a. Recoverable proven and probable reserves are estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Recoverable copper reserves in this table include 2.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles, including our joint venture partners interest in the Morenci mine. b. Consolidated basis reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. c. Net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 31 Table of Contents Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves Estimated at December 31, 2009 Proven Reserves Probable Reserves Average Ore Grade Average Ore Grade Processing Million Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Million Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Method metric tons % g/t % g/t % metric tons % g/t % g/t % North America Morenci Mill 177 0.55 0.025 1 0.77 Crushed leach 358 0.62 7 0.62 ROM leach 2,554 0.20 69 0.24 Sierrita Mill 1,310 0.26 b 0.029 1.51 131 0.23 b 0.023 1.34 ROM leach 4 0.18 1 0.13 Bagdad Mill 660 0.37 b 0.022 1.84 99 0.30 b 0.018 1.49 ROM leach 95 0.17 110 0.15 Safford Crushed leach 147 0.45 96 0.43 Tyrone ROM leach 138 0.32 42 0.24 Henderson Mill 134 0.180 4 0.190 Chino Mill 54 0.66 0.03 0.013 0.49 6 0.55 0.03 0.014 0.42 ROM leach 68 0.41 14 0.30 Miami ROM leach 74 0.44 17 0.35 Climaxa Mill 76 0.189 114 0.137 Cobrea ROM leach 71 0.40 2 0.23 5,920 0.28 b 0.016 0.54 713 0.23 b 0.030 0.46 South America Cerro Verde Mill 746 0.45 0.017 1.28 2,063 0.39 0.015 1.12 Crushed leach 89 0.57 73 0.48 ROM leach 32 0.26 50 0.23 El Abra Crushed leach 440 0.55 112 0.50 ROM leach 284 0.32 140 0.30 Candelaria Mill 382 0.54 0.12 2.04 29 0.59 0.13 2.22 Ojos del Salado Mill 6 1.13 0.26 3.18 3 1.08 0.25 3.02 1,979 0.47 0.02 0.006 0.89 2,470 0.39 b 0.012 0.96 Indonesia Grasberg open pit Mill 198 0.96 1.15 2.39 134 0.81 0.86 2.04 Deep Ore Zone Mill 85 0.65 0.64 3.24 169 0.57 0.68 2.58 Grasberg block cavea Mill 308 1.23 1.15 3.49 698 0.94 0.66 3.19 Kucing Liara Mill 156 1.32 1.15 7.51 285 1.20 1.06 6.57 Deep Mill Level Zonea Mill 59 1.00 0.78 4.94 442 0.87 0.74 4.38 Big Gossana Mill 10 2.49 1.26 17.04 46 2.20 1.04 13.66 816 1.12 1.07 4.24 1,774 0.95 0.77 4.16 Africa Tenke Fungurume Agitation leach 50 3.37 0.399 85 2.99 0.289 Total 8,765 0.42 0.11 0.012 0.96 0.002 5,042 0.61 0.27 0.010 2.00 0.005 a. Undeveloped reserves requiring significant capital investment to bring into production. b. Grade not shown because of rounding. The reserve table above and the tables on pages 33 to 35 and 40 utilize the following abbreviations: g/t grams per metric ton Moly Molybdenum ROM Run of Mine 32 Table of Contents Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves Estimated at December 31, 2009 (continued) Average Ore Grade Recoveriesa Proven and Probable Processing Million Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt Method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % % % North America Morenci Mill 178 0.55 0.025 79.3 27.8 Crushed leach 365 0.62 77.9 ROM leach 2,623 0.21 43.6 Sierrita Mill 1,441 0.25 b 0.028 1.50 81.9 59.1 80.5 49.3 ROM leach 5 0.17 55.6 Bagdad Mill 759 0.36 b 0.021 1.79 84.5 59.1 72.1 49.3 ROM leach 205 0.16 28.9 Safford Crushed leach 243 0.44 69.3 Tyrone ROM leach 180 0.30 62.2 Henderson Mill 138 0.180 86.1 Chino Mill 60 0.65 0.03 0.013 0.48 77.1 77.9 35.3 78.5 ROM leach 82 0.39 61.2 Miami ROM leach 91 0.43 63.1 Climax Mill 190 0.158 88.8 Cobre ROM leach 73 0.39 65.4 6,633 South America Cerro Verde Mill 2,809 0.40 0.015 1.16 86.4 52.6 59.5 Crushed leach 162 0.53 76.1 ROM leach 82 0.24 43.3 El Abra Crushed leach 552 0.54 55.5 ROM leach 424 0.32 26.0 Candelaria Mill 411 0.54 0.12 2.05 91.0 79.0 76.3 Ojos del Salado Mill 9 1.12 0.26 3.12 89.8 59.6 66.1 4,449 Indonesia Grasberg open pit Mill 332 0.90 1.03 2.25 83.5 81.6 43.4 Deep Ore Zone Mill 254 0.60 0.67 2.80 84.2 75.9 57.8 Grasberg block cave Mill 1,006 1.03 0.81 3.29 85.5 66.9 60.6 Kucing Liar Mill 441 1.24 1.09 6.90 85.3 45.6 38.4 Deep Mill Level Zone Mill 501 0.89 0.74 4.44 85.9 76.7 62.7 Big Gossan Mill 56 2.25 1.08 14.25 92.2 67.7 64.3 2,590 Africa Tenke Fungurume Agitation leach 135 3.13 0.33 89.4 80.0 Total 13,807 a. Recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. Grade not shown because of rounding. 33 Table of Contents Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves Estimated at December 31, 2009 (continued) Recoverable Reserves Copper Gold Moly Silver Cobalt FCXs Processing billion million billion million billion Interest Method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. lbs. North America Morenci 85% Mill 1.7 0.03 Crushed leach 3.9 ROM leach 5.2 Sierrita 100% Mill 6.6 0.1 0.73 34.2 ROM leach Bagdad 100% Mill 5.1 0.1 0.26 21.6 ROM leach 0.2 Safford 100% Crushed leach 1.6 Tyrone 100% ROM leach 0.8 Henderson 100% Mill 0.47 Chino 100% Mill 0.7 0.01 0.7 ROM leach 0.4 Miami 100% ROM leach 0.5 Climax 100% Mill 0.58 Cobre 100% ROM leach 0.4 27.1 0.2 2.08 56.5 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 2.3 100% operations 29.4 0.2 2.08 56.5 Consolidated basisa 27.7 0.2 2.07 56.5 Net equity interestb 27.7 0.2 2.07 56.5 South America Cerro Verde 53.56% Mill 21.6 0.50 62.3 Crushed leach 1.4 ROM leach 0.2 El Abra 51% Crushed leach 3.6 ROM leach 0.8 Candelaria 80% Mill 4.5 1.3 20.7 Ojos del Salado 80% Mill 0.2 0.6 32.3 1.3 0.50 83.6 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 1.7 0.2 0.02 4.7 100% operations 34.0 1.5 0.52 88.3 Consolidated basisa 34.0 1.5 0.52 88.3 Net equity interestb 19.6 1.2 0.28 53.7 Indonesia Grasberg open pit (c) Mill 5.5 8.9 10.4 Deep Ore Zone (c) Mill 2.8 4.1 13.2 Grasberg block cave (c) Mill 19.5 17.5 64.5 Kucing Liar (c) Mill 10.3 7.1 37.6 Deep Mill Level Zone (c) Mill 8.4 9.2 44.8 Big Gossan (c) Mill 2.6 1.3 16.5 49.1 48.1 187.0 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 100% operations 49.1 48.1 187.0 Consolidated basisa 34.1 35.5 125.6 Net equity interestb 30.9 32.2 113.9 Africa Tenke Fungurume 57.75% Agitation leach 8.3 0.78 Recoverable metal in stockpiles 0.1 100% operations 8.4 0.78 Consolidated basisa 8.4 0.78 Net equity interestb 4.8 0.45 TOTAL 100% operations 120.9 49.8 2.60 331.8 0.78 TOTAL Consolidated basisa 104.2 37.2 2.59 270.4 0.78 TOTAL Net equity interestb 83.0 33.6 2.35 224.1 0.45 a. Consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. b. Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. c. Our joint venture agreement with Rio Tinto provides that PT Freeport Indonesia will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 34 Table of Contents In defining our open pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. The objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. We use a break even cutoff grade to define the in situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. The break even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. Our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. We value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. Copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi metal ores in terms of one metal. The calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. Our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. The table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of December 31, 2009: Copper Equivalent Cutoff Grades Molybdenum Cutoff Grade Copper Equivalent Cutoff Grade (Percent) (Percent) Crushed or ROM Mill Agitation Leach Leach Mill North America Morenci 0.32 0.32 0.03 N/A Sierrita 0.22 N/A 0.07 N/A Bagdad 0.23 N/A 0.08 N/A Safford N/A 0.12 N/A N/A Tyrone N/A N/A 0.05 N/A Henderson N/A N/A N/A 0.12 Chino 0.31 N/A 0.08 N/A Miami N/A N/A 0.04 N/A Climax N/A N/A N/A 0.06 Cobre N/A N/A 0.17 N/A South America Cerro Verde 0.20 0.24 0.18 N/A El Abra N/A 0.20 0.07 N/A Candelaria 0.22 N/A N/A N/A Ojos del Salado 0.59 N/A N/A N/A Indonesia Grasberg open pit 0.15 N/A N/A N/A Deep Ore Zone 0.65 N/A N/A N/A Grasberg block cave 0.53 N/A N/A N/A Kucing Liar 0.75 N/A N/A N/A Deep Mill Level Zone 0.69 N/A N/A N/A Big Gossan 1.41 N/A N/A N/A Africa Tenke Fungurume N/A 1.01 N/A N/A 35 Table of Contents Drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. Drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. Drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. The following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: Average Drill Hole Spacing Average Spacing in Meters Proven Probable Mining Unit Mill Leach Mill Leach North America Morenci Open Pit 86 86 122 122 Sierrita Open Pit 69 33 115 75 Bagdad Open Pit 86 86 122 122 Safford Open Pit N/A 61 N/A 122 Tyrone Open Pit N/A 86 N/A 86 Henderson Block Cave 38 N/A 85 N/A Chino Open Pit 43 86 86 122 Miami Open Pit N/A 61 N/A 91 Climax Open Pit 61 N/A 122 N/A Cobre Open Pit N/A 61 N/A 91 South America Cerro Verde Open Pit 50 50 100 100 El Abra Open Pit N/A 75 N/A 120 Candelaria Open Pit 35 N/A 70 N/A Ojos del Salado Sublevel Stoping 25 N/A 50 N/A Indonesia Grasberg Open Pit 36 N/A 92 N/A Deep Ore Zone Block Cave 20 N/A 51 N/A Grasberg Block Cave 47 N/A 80 N/A Kucing Liar Block Cave 39 N/A 97 N/A Deep Mill Level Zone Block Cave 21 N/A 89 N/A Big Gossan Open Stope 13 N/A 42 N/A Africa Tenke Fungurume Open Pit N/A 50 N/A 100 36 Table of Contents Production Sequencing The following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing the December 31, 2009, proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body. The chart also shows the term of PT Freeport Indonesias COW. Production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. The ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. In addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. Significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life of mine plans reflected below. 37 Table of Contents Mill and Leach Stockpiles Mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. For mill stockpiles, recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. For leach stockpiles, recovery is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. Because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be extracted into copper concentrate almost immediately. Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small scale laboratory tests, small to large scale column testing (which simulates the production scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. Processes and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. Following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of December 31, 2009: Recoverable Copper in Stockpiles Recoverable Millions of Average Recovery Copper Metric Tons Grade (%) Rate (%) (Billion Pounds) Mill stockpiles Cerro Verde 72 0.46 81.9 0.6 Candelaria 91 0.39 82.7 0.7 Subtotal 163 0.42 82.3 1.3 Leach stockpiles Morenci 4,581 0.25 1.8 0.4 Sierrita 648 0.15 13.1 0.3 Bagdad 391 0.28 3.0 0.1 Safford 69 0.43 27.9 0.2 Tyrone 967 0.28 2.2 0.1 Chino 1,623 0.25 12.2 1.1 Miami 433 0.38 1.5 0.1 Cerro Verde 354 0.54 2.7 0.1 El Abra 278 0.33 17.5 0.3 Tenke Fungurume 4 0.98 86.1 0.1 Subtotal 9,348 0.28 5.1 2.8 Total 100% basis 4.1 Consolidated basisa 4.0 Net equity interestb 3.4 a. Consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partners interest in the Morenci mine in North America. b. Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 38 Table of Contents MINERALIZED MATERIAL We hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. However, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. Mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. Such a deposit may not qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. Estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.00 per pound of copper, $750 per ounce of gold and $12.00 per pound of molybdenum. 39 Table of Contents Mineralized Material Estimated at December 31, 2009 Milling Material Leaching Material Total Mineralized Material Million Million Million FCXs metric Copper Gold Moly metric Copper metric Copper Gold Moly Interest tons % g/t % tons % tons % g/t % North America Morenci 85% 342 0.41 0.016 1,965 0.22 2,307 0.25 0.002 Sierritaa 100% 2,312 0.20 0.022 37 0.15 2,349 0.20 0.022 Bagdad 100% 589 0.35 0.019 118 0.13 707 0.31 0.016 Saffordb 100% 643 0.45 0.08 0.004 103 0.29 746 0.43 0.07 0.004 Tyrone 100% 135 0.31 135 0.31 Henderson 100% 65 0.131 65 0.131 Chino 100% 462 0.42 0.010 71 0.29 533 0.40 0.009 Miami 100% 41 0.45 41 0.45 Climax 100% 528 0.165 528 0.165 Cobre 100% 44 0.55 12 0.28 56 0.49 Ajoc 100% 639 0.36 0.07 0.007 639 0.36 0.07 0.007 Cochise/Bisbee 100% 301 0.44 301 0.44 Lone Star 100% 767 0.44 767 0.44 Sanchez 100% 190 0.28 190 0.28 Tohono 100% 247 0.68 280 0.67 527 0.68 Twin Buttesd 100% 619 0.46 0.026 67 0.22 686 0.43 0.024 South America Cerro Verde 53.56% 1,007 0.37 0.014 4 0.32 1,011 0.37 0.014 El Abra 51% 762 0.44 330 0.26 1,092 0.39 Candelariae 80% 81 0.49 0.11 81 0.49 0.11 Indonesia Grasberg districtf 54.38%k 2,622 0.59 0.53 2,622 0.59 0.53 Africa Tenke Fungurumeg 57.75% 62 3.38 21 2.84 83 3.24 Kisanfuh 95% 57 2.30 50 3.01 107 2.63 Total 100% basis 11,081 4,492 15,573 Consolidated basisi 9,981 4,198 14,179 Net equity interestj 8,948 4,023 12,971 a. Sierrita stated tonnage also includes 1.2 grams of silver per metric ton. b. Safford stated tonnage also includes 1.4 grams of silver per metric ton. c. Ajo stated tonnage also includes 0.9 grams of silver per metric ton. d. Twin Buttes stated tonnage also includes 5.2 grams of silver per metric ton. e. Candelaria stated tonnage also includes 1.7 grams of silver per metric ton. f. Grasberg district stated tonnage also includes 3.4 grams of silver per metric ton. g. Tenke Fungurume stated tonnage also includes 0.30 percent cobalt. h. Kisanfu stated tonnage also includes 1.08 percent cobalt. i. Consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our joint ventures partners interest in the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. j. Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. k. FCXs interest in the Grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. 40 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding anticipated production volumes, unit net cash costs, sales volumes, ore grades, milling rates, commodity prices, development and capital expenditures, mine production and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, environmental reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities and expenditures, litigation expense and results, dividend payments, reserve estimates, exploration efforts and results, operating cash flows, copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, deferred intercompany profit impacts on financial results, and anticipated political, economic and social conditions in our areas of operations. We undertake no obligation, to update or revise any forward looking statements. Readers are cautioned that forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those projected, anticipated or assumed in the forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements include the following. Financial risks Extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and or molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. Fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or molybdenum can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and equity securities. Our earnings and cash flows are affected significantly by the market prices of copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. The world market prices of these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. For information about movements in the market prices of these commodities, refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Copper, Gold and Molybdenum Markets. An extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could (1) adversely affect our earnings and cash flows, (2) adversely affect our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and (3) depress the trading prices of our common and preferred stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. In addition, substantially all of our copper concentrate sales and some of our copper cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) prices. Accordingly, in times of falling copper prices, our revenues are negatively affected by lower prices received for contracts priced at current market rates and also from a decrease related to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of rising copper prices, the opposite occurs. There continues to be uncertainty in the global economy, which could negatively affect the market prices of commodities, including the metals that we produce. If market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. We may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses. World copper prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, LME daily closing spot prices ranged from $1.26 to $4.08 per pound for copper. The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. World copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world; available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories; sales by holders and producers of copper; demand for industrial products containing copper; 41 Table of Contents investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity; the availability and cost of substitute materials; and currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar. World gold prices have historically fluctuated widely. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, the daily closing prices on the London spot market ranged from $608 to $1,213 per ounce for gold. London gold prices closed at $1,079 per ounce on January 29, 2010. World gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China; global or regional political or economic crises; the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar and other currencies; expectations with respect to the rate of inflation; interest rates; purchases and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other holders; demand for jewelry containing gold; and investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity. Molybdenum prices also fluctuate widely. Molybdenum demand depends primarily on the global steel industry, which uses the metal as a hardening and corrosion inhibiting agent. Approximately 80 percent of molybdenum production is used in this application. The remainder is used in specialty chemical applications such as catalysts, water treatment agents and lubricants. Approximately 50 percent of global molybdenum production is a by product of copper mining, which is relatively insensitive to molybdenum prices. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, the Metals Week Dealer Oxide weekly average price for molybdenum ranged from $7.83 to $33.88 per pound. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price was $14.88 per pound on January 29, 2010. Molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply; rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel; the volume of molybdenum produced as a by product of copper production; inventory levels; currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar; and production costs of U.S. and foreign competitors. The agreements governing our indebtedness require us to meet certain financial tests and other covenants and as a result may limit our flexibility in the operation of our business and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. We incurred significant debt to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid to acquire Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge). As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was $6.3 billion. The agreements governing our indebtedness restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability to: 42 Table of Contents incur additional indebtedness; engage in transactions with affiliates; create liens on our assets; make payments in respect of equity issued by us or our subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on our common stock; make investments in, or loans, to entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; sell assets; merge with or into other companies; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into unrelated businesses; enter into agreements or arrangements that restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other distributions; prepay indebtedness; and enter into hedging transactions other than in the ordinary course of business. In April 2008, Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings raised our corporate credit rating and the ratings on our unsecured debt to BBB (investment grade). As a result of the upgrade of our unsecured debt to investment grade by S&P, the restrictions contained in our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes on incurring debt, making restricted payments and selling assets were suspended. In addition, our senior revolving credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests at any time that borrowings are outstanding under these facilities, including a leverage ratio test (Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as those terms are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 5.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter) and a secured leverage ratio test (Total Secured Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as those terms are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 3.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter). During periods in which copper, gold or molybdenum prices or production volumes, or other conditions reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors, we may not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants. Our senior revolving credit facilities and our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes contain covenants that limit our ability to make certain payments. These restrictions vary among the instruments, but generally limit our ability to pay certain dividends on common and preferred stock, repurchase or redeem common and preferred equity, prepay subordinated debt and make certain investments. To the extent the rating is downgraded below investment grade, these covenants in our 8.375%, 8.25% and floating rate senior notes would again become effective. At December 31, 2009, the most restrictive of these covenants related to restricted payments allowed for payments up to approximately $7.6 billion. Our obligations under our senior credit facilities are (1) guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (2) secured by a pledge of (a) 100 percent of the equity in substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (b) 66.5 percent of the equity in substantially all of our first tier foreign subsidiaries. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or any agreement governing our other indebtedness, after giving effect to any applicable grace period, may result in an event of default. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which may trigger cross acceleration or cross default provisions in other debt agreements. We would not be able to fully repay when due borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. 43 Table of Contents If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit agreements at maturity or in the event of a default, the lenders under our senior credit facilities could terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding (together with accrued interest and other fees) immediately due and payable and institute foreclosure proceedings against the collateral. Any such actions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under U.S. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions taken under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent state regulations. The failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. We are required by U.S. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. These laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance. In July 2009, EPA published a Priority Notice of Action identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements. It is uncertain how the new requirements will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations. As of December 31, 2009, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs totaled approximately $710 million, of which approximately $414 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. Our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations in New Mexico and Arizona depends on our ability to meet financial tests. Certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state approved ratings service. We are currently rated investment grade by Standard & Poors and Fitch, but are not rated investment grade by Moodys. If we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these alternate tests, in which case, the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance to fully satisfy our financial assurance obligations, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. Depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. Issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. Failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. As of December 31, 2009, we have limited financial assurance obligations associated with CERCLA related actions, although EPA and certain states are currently considering increasing the use of financial assurance requirements. For additional information, see the risk factor Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations below. We need significant amounts of cash to service our debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding principal amount of our debt was $6.3 billion. We must generate sufficient amounts of cash to service and repay our debt. Our ability to generate cash will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facilities or from the capital markets in amounts sufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund other liquidity needs. In addition, disruptions in the credit and financial markets, such as those beginning in late 2008, can constrain our access to capital and increase its cost. The inability to service, repay or refinance our indebtedness could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. If future financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest needed capital for our development and exploration programs, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 44 Table of Contents Movements in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could negatively affect our operating results. Substantially all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs, and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevos sol and euro. As a result, our results are adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. At December 31, 2009, approximately 19 percent of our outstanding debt was subject to variable interest rates. Increases in these rates will increase our interest costs and reduce our profits and operating cash flows. From time to time, we may implement currency or interest rate hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange or interest rates. However, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange or interest payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. Operational risks The volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. Our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with established mining industry practices and standards, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be recovered economically and legally based on currently available data. Estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are subject to considerable uncertainty. Ore bodies may not conform to standard geological expectations, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. Because ore bodies do not contain uniform grades and types of minerals, our metal recovery rates will vary from time to time. Additionally, because the determination of reserves is based partially on estimates of future selling prices, a sustained decrease in such prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. These factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. There are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from stockpiles. The quantity of copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. The volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and recovered copper from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. We must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. Our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long term viability. Produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. Open pit operations at Grasberg are expected to continue through mid 2016, at which time underground mining operations are scheduled to begin at our Grasberg Block Cave mine, which is under development. Production at the DOZ mine is expected to continue through 2020 and we plan to ramp up production at our Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) block cave mine, which is currently under development, beginning in 2015. In addition, oxide copper production at El Abra is expected to decline over the next several years and production from the sulfide ore is expected to begin in 2012. Exploration is highly speculative in nature. Our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. 45 Table of Contents Development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects, including our significant future development of underground mines at the Grasberg minerals district and our development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. Moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. Thus it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. New development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. These development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. It is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in invested capital. The development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following: Unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; Challenges related to hiring and training the personnel required for the ramp up in underground mining activities; Larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and Unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods. Some of these risks could result in a delay to production start up and a loss or reduction in minable tons. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. Mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. These operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following: earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; problems associated with the construction and management of large impoundments containing tailings or other viscous or semi solid materials, some of which also contain mineral and chemical contaminants, such as structural failures or leakages; 46 Table of Contents interruption of energy supply; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; metallurgical and other processing problems; unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights and shortages of water to which we have rights; adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government permits; delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; labor disputes; and the inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. The failure to adequately manage some of these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both on and outside our operating sites, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in production. Continuation of our mining production is dependent on the availability of a sufficient water supply to support our mining operations. Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Our operations in North and South America are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and defeat claims adverse to our current water uses in legal proceedings. At our U.S. operations, under state law, our water rights give us only the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. In Arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which for over 30 years the State of Arizona has been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims in two of the states largest river systems that affect four of our operating mines (Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford). These legal proceedings may also affect our Arizona mine at Bagdad. Groundwater is not subject to adjudication in Arizona, but is subject to the doctrine of reasonable use, which requires balancing the utility of the use against the gravity of the harm to others who have rights in the same aquifer; however, wells may be subject to adjudication to the extent they are found to produce or affect surface water. In Colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the Climax mine. Our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated in New Mexico. In South America, water for our mining operations at Candelaria and Ojos del Salado is drawn from the Copiap River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, ongoing studies are assessing the available supply for our mining operations at these sites. Due to anticipated shortages in this water resource, plans are in place to develop new supplementary water supplies. Construction is under way to convey treated effluent from a nearby sewage treatment plant to the mine and permitting has begun to construct both a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater and a pipeline to convey the desalinated water to the Candelaria mine. Water for our El Abra mining operations in Chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn pursuant to regulatory approval. At El Abra, hydrogeologic studies are ongoing to obtain regulatory approval for the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn to process sulfide ore. We expect that the amount of water needed to develop the sulfide ore project will represent a significant increase over current volumes used in processing the oxide ore. El Abra is working closely with regulatory authorities to meet these requirements. Failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approval or receipt of approval in a less than desired amount could adversely affect our development of the sulfide ore project as planned. 47 Table of Contents Water for our Cerro Verde mining operations in Peru comes from a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Our Cerro Verde mining operations recently constructed several new water reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed to obtain more water rights and to expand storage capacity. Due to occasional drought and possible effects of climate change reducing precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our operations as currently planned. Although each operation currently has sufficient water rights and claims to cover its operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. The loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. An interruption of energy supply could adversely affect our mining operations. Our mining operations and development projects require significant amounts of energy. Our principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. Our South America mining operations receive electrical power under long term contracts with local energy companies. Our Africa mining operation has entered into long term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with the state owned electric utility company serving the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). A disruption in the transmission of energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure, or the termination of any of our energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect our operations. Increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. Energy represents a significant portion of our production costs. An inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. Our production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, explosives and diluents. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. Increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. Our Grasberg mining operations are located in steep mountainous terrain in a very remote area in Indonesia. Because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. On October 9, 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the Grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. On December 12, 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. The events caused us to alter our short term mine sequencing plans, which adversely affected our 2003 and 2004 production. We resumed normal production activities in the second quarter of 2004. On March 23, 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting PT Freeport Indonesias mining facilities. Three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. The material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. As a result of investigations by PT Freeport Indonesia and the Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. The existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. 48 Table of Contents On September 10, 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our Grasberg open pit. There were no injuries or property damage. The event caused a delay in our access to the high grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods. No assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. Our Africa mining operation, Tenke Fungurume, involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the DRC. Our Africa mining operation is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to additional challenges, including: severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria and cholera. For example, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from our Africa mining operation approximately 1,900 miles to ports in South Africa. Our Africa mining operation and future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. Environmental risks Our domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs. Our ongoing mining operations and exploration activities, both in the U.S. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs and we expect these costs to continue to increase in the future because of increased regulatory enforcement, increased demand for remediation services and shortages of equipment, supplies, labor and other factors. The Federal Clean Air Act has had a significant impact, particularly on our domestic smelter and power plants. Any change in waste management regulation of the mining industry under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act could have a significant impact, both on operational compliance and closure costs. In addition, environmental laws and regulations may change in ways that could substantially increase compliance costs or adversely affect our operations or expansion opportunities. In addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. Freeport McMoRan Corporation (FMC, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the U.S. for more than a century. Activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before American industrial companies understood the long term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. With the passage of CERCLA in 1980, companies like Phelps Dodge became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. That liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other 49 Table of Contents owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. As a result, because of our acquisition of Phelps Dodge in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the U.S., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. We are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. As of December 31, 2009, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the U.S. in approximately 25 states. We incurred aggregate environmental capital expenditure and other environmental costs, (including our joint venture partners shares), to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $289 million in 2009, $377 million in 2008 and $280 million in 2007. For 2010, we expect to incur approximately $426 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2010 operating budget. At December 31, 2009, $1.5 billion of environmental obligations were recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. Our environmental obligation estimates are based upon (1) our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago, (2) our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake the estimated costs of those activities, which are subject to varying interpretations, and (3) our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. Significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. The actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. Refer to Note 14 for more information on our environmental obligations. An adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us. As described in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, we are a defendant in numerous and in some cases significant litigation involving environmental cleanup costs, alleged environmental toxic torts and interpretations of environmental regulations. An adverse ruling in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. Our domestic operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined land reclamation obligations. These requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. In general, our domestic mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. In addition, our international mines are subject to various mine closure and mined land reclamation laws, and there have recently been significant changes in closure and reclamation programs in both Peru and Chile that impose more stringent obligations on us for closure and reclamation. Updated closure plans for our three Chilean operations were submitted to the government in February 2009 and the Peruvian government approved Cerro Verdes closure plan in October 2009. Our asset retirement obligations (AROs), determined as required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. totaled $731 million (including approximately $46 million for the current portion) at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, we had accrued reclamation and closure costs of $351 million for our New Mexico operations, $187 million for our Arizona operations and $102 million for PT Freeport Indonesia. ARO cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, mine plans, cost of inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. 50 Table of Contents Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. Many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and therefore potentially to climate change. In 2009, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were 8.9 million metric tons, nearly equally divided between direct and indirect emissions. Most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. Indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. Approximately 19 percent of our direct emissions are in North America and 68 percent in Indonesia, and approximately 60 percent of our indirect emissions are in North America and 38 percent in South America. A number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes regarding greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in the U.S., the EPA issued final regulations in September 2009 requiring mandatory monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in specified circumstances, commencing in 2010. Our Morenci mine, Miami smelter and El Paso refinery will likely be required to report their emissions under this program. In December 2009, the EPA issued findings under the Clean Air Act that the current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and welfare. While the findings themselves do not impose any requirements, they form the basis for future regulation of our greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (ACES), also known as the Waxman Markey Bill, which proposes to impose a cap and trade program aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Several states have also initiated action on their own or as part of regional organizations, such as the Western Climate Initiative, to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. The U.S. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our U.S. operations. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the Protocol. Although the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012, has not been ratified by the U.S., the U.S. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. We actively pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2009, we formed a multi departmental task force to focus our efforts on these topics. In addition, since 2006, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. From a medium and long term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase, if they incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Our operating, inactive and historical U.S. mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations. A number of federal and state agencies are considering new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. For example, the EPA could promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (TENORM) and their impacts at mining operations. In addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. Radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations. Consequently, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation. The impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain. 51 Table of Contents Our Indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. Mining operations on the scale of our operations in Papua involve significant environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper , gold and silver bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the Government of Indonesia, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. Lateral levees have been engineered and constructed to limit and help contain the footprint of tailings impact in the lowlands. Another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process in order to reach the ore. In the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can have a negative impact on the environment. Certain Indonesian governmental officials have from time to time raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. Because our mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. In connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the Indonesian government, we committed to perform a one time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. We completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the Indonesian government in December 2002. We developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the Indonesian government, academia and non governmental organizations. The risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. Since 2005, PT Freeport Indonesia has participated in the Government of Indonesias PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating) program. In October 2009, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment announced the latest results of its PROPER environmental management audit, and gave PT Freeport Indonesia a Blue rating acknowledging PT Freeport Indonesias environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in Indonesia and also making several recommendations for improvement. International risks Our International operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. We are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the U.S. We conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Peru, Chile and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries. Such risks include (1) renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, (2) expropriation or nationalization of property, (3) changes in a foreign countrys laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, (4) political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, (5) foreign exchange controls, and (6) the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. Our insurance does not cover most losses caused by these risks. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the U.S. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. 52 Table of Contents In December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia was notified by the Large Taxpayers Office of the Government of Indonesia that PT Freeport Indonesia is obligated to pay value added taxes on certain goods imported after the year 2000. The amount of taxes and penalties would be significant. PT Freeport Indonesia believes that pursuant to the terms of its Contract of Work, it is only required to pay value added taxes on these types of goods imported after December 30, 2009. PT Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the applicable government authorities to resolve this matter. In December 2008, our Cerro Verde mining operation in Peru was notified by Peruvian revenue authorities of their intent to assess mining royalties related to minerals processed by the Cerro Verde concentrator. In August 2009, Cerro Verde received a formal assessment in the amount of approximately $50 million in connection with its alleged obligations for mining royalties and fines for the period from October 2006 to December 2007. Cerro Verde is challenging this assessment as it believes that royalty obligations with respect to all minerals extracted are governed by its existing stability agreement, regardless of the processing method applied after extraction, and believes that it owes no royalties with respect to minerals processed through its concentrator. We are working cooperatively with the Peruvian authorities to resolve this matter. Because our Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties. Indonesia has faced political, economic and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. In particular, several separatist groups are opposing Indonesian rule over the province of Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. In response, Indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective January 1, 2001. The manner in which the new laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social, economic and political instability in Papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. Maintaining a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among Indonesias most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a Contract of Work with the Indonesian government. Partially because of their significance to Indonesias economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the Indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. Since July 2009, there has been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex (including an incident in January 2010). In connection with these incidents, there have been three fatalities (including one PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and has expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and of our operations. The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. In response to these events, PT Freeport Indonesia is currently reviewing security plans with the Indonesian authorities. Grasberg operated at reduced mining and milling rates during a four day period from April 18, 2007 to April 21, 2007, as a result of peaceful protests by certain workers regarding benefits. The protests ended on April 21 with an agreement on a framework for minimum wages for its workers and Grasberg returned to normal operations. The impacts to production were not significant. Illegal miners have continued to operate along the river designated to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in PT Freeport Indonesias government approved tailings management area. The illegal miners who have trespassed from time to time in the area of our facilities have clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. In 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the Grasberg mine and mill in protest, and PT Freeport Indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. 53 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt our Indonesian operations, or whether similar incidents may occur in other countries that could affect our other operations. If additional protests or other disruptive incidents occur at any of our facilities, they could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. We do not expect to mine all of our Indonesian ore reserves before the initial term of our Contract of Work in Indonesia expires. All of our Indonesian proven and probable ore reserves, including the Grasberg deposit, are located in Block A. The initial term of our Contract of Work covering these ore reserves expires at the end of 2021. We can extend this term for two successive 10 year periods, subject to the approval of the Indonesian government, which under our Contract of Work cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Our ore reserves reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 (i.e., through the expiration of the two 10 year extensions) and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10 year extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the current term of our Contract of Work, and there can be no assurance that the Indonesian government will approve the extensions. Prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine approximately 33 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at December 31, 2009, representing approximately 39 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias share of recoverable copper reserves and approximately 52 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. In 2008, Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia. In 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2008 mining law and certain provisions address existing contracts of work. The regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to any extension periods of contracts of work even though our Contract of Work provides for two ten year extension periods under the existing terms of the Contract of Work. Our Contracts of Work in Indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work and other Contracts of Work in which we have an interest were entered into under Indonesias 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. Our Contracts of Work can be terminated by the Government of Indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. Certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our Contract of Work. Although our Contract of Work grants to PT Freeport Indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the Contract of Work, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on PT Freeport Indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements. At times, certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the Government of Indonesia prior to May 1998 (i.e., during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work, which was signed in December 1991. We cannot assure you that the validity of, or our compliance with, the Contracts of Work will not be challenged for political or other reasons. PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work and our other Contracts of Work require that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. Consequently, if a dispute arises under the Contracts of Work, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory. Indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with Indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the Contracts of Work. In 2006, the Government of Indonesia created a joint team for Periodic Evaluation on Implementation of the PT FI Contract of Work (COW) to conduct an evaluation every five years. The team consists of five working groups, whose members are from relevant ministries or agencies, covering production, state revenues, community development, environmental 54 Table of Contents issues and security issues. We have conducted numerous meetings with these groups. The joint team has indicated that it will issue a report. While we believe that we comply with PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work in all material respects, we cannot assure you that the report will support that conclusion. Separately, the Indonesian House of Representatives created a working committee on PT Freeport Indonesia. Members of this group have also visited our operations and held a number of hearings in Jakarta. We will continue to work with these groups to respond to their questions about our operations and our compliance with PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work. Any suspension of required activities under our Contracts of Work requires the consent of the Indonesian government. Our Contracts of Work permit us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the Indonesian government. These requests are subject to the approval of the Indonesian government and are renewable annually. If we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the Contract of Work or potentially be declared in default. Moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the Indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the Contract of Work. We suspended our field exploration activities outside of Block A in recent years because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an Indonesian Forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open pit mining in forest preservation areas. In 2001, we requested and received from the Government of Indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the Contracts of Work in all areas outside of Block A. Recent Indonesian legislation permits open pit mining in PT Freeport Indonesias Block B area, subject to certain requirements. Following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective Contract of Work areas outside of Block A. Our Tenke Fungurume mining operation is located in the Katanga province of the DRC, and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the DRC. During 2009, we completed construction activities for the initial Tenke Fungurume development project, which is located in the DRC. Since 1960, the DRC has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy towards foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. Our ability to continue mining operations and future development is currently subject to an ongoing review of our mining convention which was part of a review of all mining contracts by the Ministry of Mines (Ministry) in the DRC, the outcome of which cannot be predicted. We received notification on February 20, 2008, that the Ministry wishes to renegotiate several material provisions of our mining concessions. We believe that the terms of the concessions are fair and that they were negotiated transparently and are legally binding. However, we cannot predict whether the Government of the DRC will respect our contract rights. In July 2009, Tenke Fungurume was advised that the Minister of Justice in the DRC authorized an inquiry regarding the alleged misappropriation of public funds in connection with the securing of labor and immigration authorizations and the payment of associated fees for the Tenke Fungurume project. Several government officials and three Tenke Fungurume employees were arrested. In October 2009, the three Tenke Fungurume employees were tried and acquitted. One government official, the head of immigration in the Katanga province, was sentenced to five years imprisonment on charges of embezzlement. The office of the Attorney General of the DRC has filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, the implications of which are not yet clear. In July 2009, Tenke Fungurume entered into a settlement agreement with DRC tax authorities in connection with an administrative audit regarding the payment of fees for work permits and visas for its foreign workers and subcontractors, including short term workers. Pursuant to the agreement, which covers the period from January 2007 to the date of the settlement, Tenke Fungurume paid approximately $16 million in fees and penalties. The procedures associated with obtaining labor and immigration authorizations for short term workers on a timely basis are not clearly established in the DRC, and Tenke Fungurume continues to work proactively and cooperatively with the tax authorities to establish approved procedures for doing so consistent with its mining convention and local law. 55 Table of Contents Other political, economic and social risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include: political risks associated with the relatively recent establishment of the present government; cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government; legal and regulatory uncertainties, governmental corruption and bribery; royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; security risks due to the remote location in the southern DRC and violence in the northeastern provinces of the DRC; risk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. Consequently, our Tenke Fungurume mining operations and future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. On July 17, 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the JW Marriott and Ritz Carlton hotels in Jakarta, Indonesia, that are reported to have killed nine people and injured 53 others. Two of our Indonesian based executives were injured in the incident. On July 8, 2009, a small group of individuals created a disturbance on the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex and vandalized vehicles and small buildings. There were no injuries. For more information about a series of shooting incidents near our Grasberg mining complex, see the risk factor Because our Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties above. On August 31, 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near Tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of PT Freeport Indonesias personnel reside. The assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in Tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to PT Freeport Indonesia. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigated the incident, which resulted in the U.S. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the Free Papua Movement/National Freedom Force. In January 2006, Indonesian police, accompanied by FBI agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other Papuans. In November 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the August 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack. On October 12, 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the Indonesian province of Bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. Indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. On August 5, 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia. On September 9, 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. On October 1, 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in Bali. The same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. In November 2005, Indonesian police raided a house in East Java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. Our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but PT Freeport Indonesias corporate office in Jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the Australian embassy. In addition to the Bali, JW Marriott Hotel and Australian embassy bombings, there have been anti American demonstrations in certain sections of Indonesia reportedly led by radical Islamic activists. 56 Table of Contents No assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. If there were to be additional violence, it could materially and adversely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict at this time. Other risks If market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long lived assets may be further impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the then current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long lived assets and goodwill for impairment. As a result, we recorded impairment charges totaling $16.9 billion ($12.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders). Additionally, the declines in copper and molybdenum prices in late 2008 resulted in lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory charges totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders) in 2008. Additional LCM charges associated with molybdenum inventories totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders) were recorded in first quarter 2009. Declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, may cause us to record additional LCM inventory adjustments and may also require us to further write down the carrying value of long lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. Unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are a party to the litigation described in our SEC filings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at Superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. If any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation, is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our future projects. A loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. In addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the U.S. In addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries creditors, including any trade creditors and preferred stockholders. 57 Table of Contents Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. These provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. These provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by Phelps Dodge and its affiliates. We do not believe that our potential liability in any such proceeding should have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We maintain liability insurance to cover some, but not all, potential liabilities normally incident to the ordinary course of our business as well as other insurance coverage customary in our business, with coverage limits that we deem prudent. Environmental Proceedings Pinal Creek. We are a party to litigation entitled Pinal Creek Group, et al. v. Newmont Mining Corporation, et al., United States District Court, District of Arizona, Case No. CIV 91 1764 PHX DAE (LOA), filed on May 1, 1991. The Pinal Creek site located near Miami, Arizona, was listed under the Arizona Department of Environmental Qualitys (ADEQ) Water Quality Assurance Revolving Fund program in 1989 for contamination in the shallow alluvial aquifers within the Pinal Creek drainage near Miami, Arizona. Since that time, environmental remediation has been performed by members of the Pinal Creek Group (PCG), consisting of Phelps Dodge Miami, Inc. (Miami) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Freeport McMoRan Corporation, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation) and two other companies. In 1998, the District Court approved a Consent Decree between the PCG members and the state of Arizona resolving all matters related to an enforcement action contemplated by the state of Arizona against the PCG members with respect to groundwater contamination. The Consent Decree committed the PCG members to complete the remediation work outlined in the Consent Decree, and that work continues at this time and is expected to continue for many years in the future. 58 Table of Contents Remediation costs have been paid pursuant to an interim cost sharing allocation among the members of the PCG, with Miamis interim allocation being approximately two thirds. However, there have been significant disagreements among the members of the PCG regarding the cost allocation, with other members alleging in the federal court proceeding that Miami should be responsible for substantially all of the costs. In February 2010, we settled those disagreements and the associated litigation. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, Miami paid $40 million to other members of the PCG to settle the allocation of previously incurred costs, and agreed to take full responsibility for future groundwater remediation at the Pinal Creek site, with limited exceptions. The settlement did not result in an adjustment of the related environmental reserve reflected in our financial statements. Blackwell, Oklahoma Litigation. On April 14, 2008, a purported class action was filed in the District Court of Kay County, Oklahoma against us and several of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Blackwell Zinc Company (BZC) (Coffey, et al., v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc., et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2008 68). This suit alleges that the operations of BZCs zinc smelter in Blackwell, Oklahoma, from 1918 to 1974 resulted in contamination of the soils and groundwater in Blackwell and the surrounding area. Unspecified compensatory and punitive damages are sought on behalf of the putative class members, consisting of current and former residents and property owners, for alleged diminution in property values. There is also a request for an order compelling remediation of allegedly contaminated properties and the establishment of a monetary fund to monitor the present and future health of the putative class members. On December 7, 2009, 18 individuals filed a related suit (Brown et al. v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2009 213), alleging personal injuries resulting from exposure to lead and seeking compensatory and punitive damages. We intend to defend both of these matters vigorously. For more information about our remediation activities in Blackwell, Oklahoma, refer to Note 14. On October 15, 2009, the City of Blackwell and the Blackwell Municipal Authority filed an action against us and several of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including BZC (City of Blackwell et al. v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc. et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2009 15B). The suit alleged that the operations of BZCs zinc smelter resulted in contamination of soils and groundwater in the City of Blackwell. The plaintiffs alleged nuisance, trespass, negligence, and unjust enrichment and claimed unspecified actual, equitable (for unjust enrichment) and punitive damages. In February 2010, we reached a partial settlement with the City of Blackwell and the Blackwell Municipal Authority by paying $54 million to settle all of the claims except for future damages relating to the potential failure of our groundwater remediation system (which is under construction) to prevent contamination from entering the City of Blackwells wastewater treatment system. Arizona Department of Environmental Quality Morenci. In October 2008, Freeport McMoRan Morenci Inc. (Morenci) notified state and federal authorities that it accidentally released electrolyte solution from its solution extraction and electrowinning (SX/EW) operation into Lower Chase Creek, an ephemeral stream that is normally dry. Morenci conducted a thorough cleanup of the spill and later provided authorities with information on corrective actions implemented in response to the spill. On January 16, 2009, Morenci received Notices of Violation (NOVs) from the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality alleging that the spill resulted in violations of the Arizona Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and Aquifer Protection Programs. Morenci also received a letter dated January 28, 2010, from the Arizona Attorney Generals office advising Morenci that the State of Arizona intends to file a civil enforcement action. Morenci intends to meet with the Arizona Attorney Generals office to discuss a potential settlement and expects to reach an agreement that includes payment of an appropriate civil penalty, which may exceed $100,000, and possible additional corrective actions to those previously implemented. Asbestos Claims Since approximately 1990, Phelps Dodge and various subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a large number of lawsuits claiming personal injury from exposure to asbestos contained in electrical wire products produced or marketed by Phelps Dodge affiliates many years ago, or from asbestos contained in buildings and facilities located at properties owned or operated by Phelps Dodge affiliates. Water Rights Water law in the western U.S. is generally based on the doctrine of prior appropriation (first in time, first in right) and permits the water right holder the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use, at a designated location. Our operations in the western U.S. require water for mining, ore processing and related 59 Table of Contents support facilities. Continuous operation of these mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims. The loss of water rights, in whole or in part, could have a significant adverse affect on our mining operations. Two water rights adjudications have been initiated in the State of Arizona in order to quantify and prioritize all surface water claims in two of the States river systems that include four of our operating mines (Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford). These legal proceedings may also affect our Bagdad, Arizona mine. These adjudications have been under way for many years, and we cannot predict when they will be concluded. In Re the General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Little Colorado Water System and Sources, Apache County, Superior Court, No. 6417, filed on or about February 17, 1978. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the State of Arizona; the Salt River Project; the Arizona Public Service Company; the Navajo Nation, the Hopi Indian Tribe; the San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe; and the United States on its own behalf, on behalf of those Indian tribes, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe. In Re The General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Gila River System and Sources, Maricopa County, Superior Court, Cause Nos. W 1 (Salt), W 2 (Verde), W 3 (Upper Gila), and W 4 (San Pedro), filed on February 17, 1978. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the State of Arizona; the Gila Valley Irrigation District; the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District; the Salt River Project; the San Carlos Apache Tribe; the Gila River Indian Community; and the United States on behalf of those Tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe, the Fort McDowell Mohave Apache Indian Community, the Salt River Pima Maricopa Indian Community, and the Payson Community of Yavapai Apache Indians. In 1998, we entered into a water rights settlement agreement with the Gila River Indian Community (GRIC), which was later included in a comprehensive water rights settlement under the Arizona Water Settlements Act of 2004. The GRIC settlement is subject to contingencies, and the comprehensive settlement has been challenged by other parties. If we are unable to resolve the contingencies in the GRIC settlement and defeat the third party challenges, our water rights in the Gila River watershed could be diminished, and our operations at Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford could be adversely affected. Prior to January 1, 1983, various Indian tribes filed suits in the U.S. District Court in Arizona claiming superior rights to water being used by many other water users, including us, and claiming damages for prior use in derogation of their allegedly superior rights. These federal proceedings have been stayed pending the Arizona Superior Court adjudications. United States v. Gila Valley Irrigation District, United States District Court, District of Arizona, was initiated in 1925 by the United States to settle conflicting claims to water rights in portions of the Gila River watershed. A decree settling the claims of various parties was entered in 1935, after Morenci had been dismissed from the case without prejudice. In 1988, the Gila River Indian Community intervened, challenging uses of water in the Gila River watershed, which may impact water that we have the right to divert annually from Eagle Creek, Chase Creek or the San Francisco River for operation of our Morenci mine, pursuant to decreed rights and an agreement between us and the Gila Valley Irrigation District. Our Morenci operations also purchased farm lands with water rights in 1997, 1998 and 2008 that could be affected by the outcome of this proceeding. Impairment of our water claims in the Gila River watershed could adversely affect the operations of our Morenci and Safford mines. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Not applicable. 60 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant. Certain information as of February 12, 2010, about our executive officers is set forth in the following table and accompanying text: Name Age Position or Office James R. Moffett 71 Chairman of the Board Richard C. Adkerson 63 Director, President and Chief Executive Officer Michael J. Arnold 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Kathleen L. Quirk 46 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer James R. Moffett has served as Chairman of the Board since May 1992. Mr. Moffett previously served as the Chief Executive Officer from July 1995 until December 2003. He is also Co Chairman of the Board of McMoRan Exploration Co. (McMoRan). Richard C. Adkerson has served as President since January 2008 and also from April 1997 to March 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2003 and a director since October 2006. Mr. Adkerson previously served as Chief Financial Officer from October 2000 to December 2003. Mr. Adkerson is also Co Chairman of the Board of McMoRan. Michael J. Arnold has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007 and Chief Administrative Officer since December 2003. Kathleen L. Quirk has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007, Chief Financial Officer since December 2003 and Treasurer since February 2000. Ms. Quirk previously served as Senior Vice President from December 2003 to March 2007. Ms. Quirk has also served as the Senior Vice President of McMoRan since April 2002 and as Treasurer since January 2000. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Common Stock Our common shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol FCX. The FCX share price is reported daily in the financial press under FMCG in most listings of NYSE securities. NYSE composite tape common share price ranges during 2009 and 2008 follow: 2009 2008 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 43.45 $ 21.16 $ 107.37 $ 68.96 Second Quarter 61.55 36.60 127.24 93.00 Third Quarter 73.43 43.19 117.11 51.21 Fourth Quarter 87.35 63.00 56.75 15.70 As of February 12, 2010, there were approximately 18,000 holders of record of our common stock. 61 Table of Contents Common Stock Dividends In February 2003, the Board of Directors authorized an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $0.36 per share payable quarterly, and authorized increases in the annual cash dividend in October 2003 to $0.80 per share, in October 2004 to $1.00 per share and in November 2005 to $1.25 per share. In December 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an increase in our annual common stock dividend to $1.75 per share and in July 2008 to $2.00 per share. Additionally, since December 2004, we have paid eight supplemental dividends. Because of the deterioration in copper and molybdenum prices and in general economic conditions, in December 2008 the Board of Directors suspended the cash dividend on our common stock; accordingly, no common stock dividends were paid in 2009. In October 2009, the Board of Directors authorized an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $0.60 per share, payable quarterly beginning February 1, 2010. Below is a summary of common stock cash dividends declared and paid during 2008: 2008 Per Share Amount Record Date Payment Date First Quarter $ 0.4375 Jan. 15, 2008 Feb. 1, 2008 Second Quarter 0.4375 Apr. 15, 2008 May 1, 2008 Third Quarter 0.4375 July 15, 2008 Aug. 1, 2008 Fourth Quarter 0.5000 Oct. 15, 2008 Nov. 1, 2008 The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. In addition, payment of dividends on our common stock and purchases of common stock are subject to limitations under our senior notes and, in certain circumstances, our senior credit facilities. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table sets forth information with respect to shares of common stock of FCX purchased by us during the three months ended December 31, 2009: (d) Maximum Number (c) Total Number of (or Approximate (a) Total Shares (or Units) Dollar Value) of Shares Number of (b) Average Purchased as Part of (or Units) That May Shares (or Units) Price Paid Per Publicly Announced Yet Be Purchased Under Period Purchaseda Share (or Unit) Plans or Programsb the Plans or Programsb October 1 31, 2009 279 $ 64.83 23,685,500 November 1 30, 2009 103 $ 84.24 23,685,500 December 1 31, 2009 $ 23,685,500 Total 382 $ 70.06 23,685,500 a. Consists of shares repurchased to satisfy tax obligations on restricted stock awards and stock options under FCXs applicable stock incentive plans. b. On July 21, 2008, FCXs Board of Directors approved an increase in FCXs open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. The program does not have an expiration date. 62 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data. FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007a 2006 2005 FCX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Revenues $ 15,040 $ 17,796 $ 16,939 b $ 5,791 $ 4,179 Operating income (loss) 6,503 c,d (12,710 )c,d,e 6,555 b,e 2,869 2,177 Income (loss) from continuing operations 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,733 1,625 1,122 Net income (loss) 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,779 1,625 1,122 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 785 617 802 168 127 Net income (loss) attributable to FCX common stockholders 2,527 c,d,f (11,341 )c,d,e,f 2,769 b,e,f 1,396 f,g 935 f Basic net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations $ 6.10 $ (29.72 ) $ 8.02 $ 7.32 $ 5.18 Discontinued operations 0.10 Basic net income (loss) $ 6.10 $ (29.72 ) $ 8.12 $ 7.32 $ 5.18 Basic weighted average common shares outstanding 414 382 341 191 180 Diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations $ 5.86 $ (29.72 ) $ 7.41 $ 6.63 $ 4.67 Discontinued operations 0.09 Diluted net income (loss) $ 5.86 c,d,f $ (29.72 )c,d,e,f $ 7.50 b,e,f $ 6.63 f,g $ 4.67 f Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 469 382 397 221 220 Dividends declared per share of common stock $ 0.15 $ 1.375 $ 1.375 $ 5.0625 $ 2.50 At December 31: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,656 $ 872 $ 1,626 $ 907 $ 764 Property, plant, equipment and development costs, net 16,195 16,002 25,715 3,099 3,089 Goodwill 6,105 Total assets 25,996 23,353 40,661 5,390 g 5,550 Total debt, including current portion and short term borrowings 6,346 7,351 7,211 680 1,256 Total FCX stockholders equity 9,119 5,773 18,234 2,445 g 1,843 The selected consolidated financial data shown above is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. You should read this data in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our full consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this annual report. a. Includes the results of Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge) beginning March 20, 2007. b. Includes charges totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.27 per share) for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge. c. Includes charges totaling $77 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share) in 2009 and $17.0 billion ($12.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $33.21 per share) in 2008 associated with impairment, restructuring and other charges. d. Includes charges for lower of cost or market inventory adjustments totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.03 per share) in 2009 and $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.26 per share) in 2008. e. Includes purchase accounting impacts related to the acquisition of Phelps Dodge totaling $1.1 billion, including $1.0 billion to operating loss and $93 million for non operating income and expenses ($679 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.78 per share) in 2008 and $1.3 billion to operating income ($793 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $2.00 per share) in 2007. f. Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversion of debt totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) in 2009, $5 million ($0.01 per share) in 2008, $132 million ($0.33 per share) in 2007, $30 million ($0.14 per share) in 2006 and $40 million ($0.18 per share) in 2005; 2008 also includes charges totaling $22 million ($0.06 per share) associated with privately negotiated transactions to induce conversion of a portion of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock into FCX common stock. Also includes a favorable adjustment to income tax expense totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) in 2009, resulting from completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. g. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted guidance associated with accounting for stripping costs incurred during production in the mining industry, and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment ($149 million) to reduce beginning retained earnings for our deferred mining costs asset ($285 million) as of December 31, 2005, net of taxes, noncontrolling interests and inventory effects ($136 million). As a result, income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests was $35 million lower and net income was $19 million ($0.08 per share) lower than if we had not adopted this guidance. Effective January 1, 2006, we also adopted accounting guidance on share based payments. As a result, income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests was $28 million lower and net income was $16 million ($0.07 per share) lower than if we had not adopted this guidance. Results for prior years have not been restated. 63 Table of Contents FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (Continued) For comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007a 2006 a 2005 a FCX CONSOLIDATED MINING OPERATING DATA Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 4,103 4,030 3,884 3,639 3,912 Production (thousands of metric tons) 1,861 1,828 1,762 1,651 1,774 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 4,111 4,066 3,862 3,630 3,933 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 1,865 1,844 1,752 1,647 1,784 Average realized price per pound $ 2.60 $ 2.69 $ 3.22 b $ 2.80 b $ 1.66 b Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 2,664 1,291 2,329 1,863 2,923 Sales, excluding purchases 2,639 1,314 2,320 1,866 2,925 Average realized price per ounce $ 993 $ 861 $ 682 $ 566 c $ 454 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 54 73 70 68 62 Sales, excluding purchases 58 71 69 69 60 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 $ 21.87 $ 25.89 NORTH AMERICA COPPER MINES Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,147 1,430 1,320 1,305 1,365 Production (thousands of metric tons) 520 649 599 592 619 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 1,187 1,434 1,332 1,303 1,383 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 538 650 604 591 627 Average realized price per pound $ 2.38 $ 3.07 $ 3.10 d $ 2.29 d $ 1.49 d Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 25 30 30 31 30 100% Operating Data Solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 589,400 1,095,200 798,200 801,200 778,500 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.29 0.22 0.23 0.30 0.26 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 859 943 940 1,013 1,066 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 169,900 249,600 223,800 199,300 194,800 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 0.33 0.40 0.35 0.33 0.33 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 Copper recovery rate (percent) 86.0 82.9 84.5 85.0 83.9 Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper 364 599 501 414 419 Molybdenum 25 30 30 31 30 SOUTH AMERICA COPPER MINES Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,390 1,506 1,413 1,133 1,091 Production (thousands of metric tons) 631 683 641 514 495 Sales (millions of pounds) 1,394 1,521 1,399 1,126 1,093 Sales (thousands of metric tons) 632 690 635 511 496 Average realized price per pound $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 3.25 $ 3.03 $ 1.63 e Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 92 114 116 112 117 Sales 90 116 114 111 117 Average realized price per ounce $ 982 $ 853 $ 683 $ 552 $ 425 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 2 3 1 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 258,200 279,700 289,100 257,400 264,600 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.45 0.45 0.43 0.45 0.46 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 565 560 569 695 670 64 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007a 2006 a 2005 a SOUTH AMERICA COPPER MINES (continued) Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 181,300 181,400 167,900 68,500 68,700 Average ore grade (percent):f Copper 0.66 0.75 0.74 0.87 0.84 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 88.9 89.2 87.1 93.8 93.9 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 825 946 844 438 421 Gold (thousands of ounces) 92 114 116 112 117 Molybdenum (millions of pounds) 2 3 1 INDONESIA MINING Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,412 1,094 1,151 1,201 1,456 Production (thousands of metric tons) 640 496 522 545 660 Sales (millions of pounds) 1,400 1,111 1,131 1,201 1,457 Sales (thousands of metric tons) 635 504 513 545 661 Average realized price per pound $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 3.32 $ 3.13 $ 1.85 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 2,568 1,163 2,198 1,732 2,789 Sales 2,543 1,182 2,185 1,736 2,790 Average realized price per ounce $ 994 $ 861 $ 681 $ 567 c $ 456 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day) 238,300 192,900 212,600 229,400 216,200 Average ore grade: Copper (percent) 0.98 0.83 0.82 0.85 1.13 Gold (grams per metric ton) 1.30 0.66 1.24 0.85 1.65 Recovery rates (percent): Copper 90.6 90.1 90.5 86.1 89.2 Gold 83.7 79.9 86.2 80.9 83.1 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 1,641 1,109 1,211 1,300 1,689 Gold (thousands of ounces) 2,984 1,163 2,608 1,824 3,440 AFRICA MINING Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 154 g Sales 130 g Average realized price per pound $ 2.85 g Ore milled (metric tons per day) 7,300 g Average copper ore grade (percent) 3.69 g Copper recovery rate (percent) 92.1 g MOLYBDENUM OPERATIONS Molybdenum sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds)h 58 71 69 69 60 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 $ 21.87 $ 25.89 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day) 14,900 24,100 24,000 22,200 20,300 Average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.25 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.22 Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 27 40 39 37 32 a. For comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.27 per pound for 2007, $3.08 per pound for 2006 and $1.76 per pound for 2005. c. Amount was approximately $606 per ounce before a loss resulting from the redemption of FCXs Gold Denominated Preferred Stock, Series II. d. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.25 per pound for 2007, $3.06 per pound for 2006 and $1.69 per pound for 2005. e. Amount was $1.75 per pound before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs. f. Average ore grades of gold produced at our South America copper mines rounds to less than 0.001 grams per metric ton. g. Results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in March 2009. h. Includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. 65 Table of Contents For the ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculation, earnings consist of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, equity in affiliated companies net earnings, cumulative effect of accounting changes and fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest. For the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends calculation, we assumed that our preferred stock dividend requirements were equal to the pre tax earnings that would be required to cover those dividend requirements. We computed those pre tax earnings using the effective tax rate for each year. Our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was as follows for the years presented: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 9.3x a 9.9x 33.1x 15.9x Ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends 6.1x b 6.6x 14.3x 8.2x a. As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.4 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. b. As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.8 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. 66 Table of Contents Item 7. and 7A. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW and OUTLOOK In Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we, us and our refer to Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The results of operations reported and summarized below are not necessarily indicative of future operating results (refer to Cautionary Statement for further discussion). In particular, the financial results for 2007 include the operations of Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge) from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, not the full twelve month period because of the accounting treatment for the acquisition. References to Notes are Notes included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations all references to earnings or losses per share are on a diluted basis, unless otherwise noted. We are one of the worlds largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. Our portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, which contains the largest single recoverable copper reserve and the largest single gold reserve of any mine in the world based on the latest available reserve data provided by third party industry consultants; significant mining operations in North and South America; and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). We also operate Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in Spain. During 2009, approximately 61 percent of our consolidated copper production was from our Grasberg, Morenci and Cerro Verde mines, and more than half of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, approximately 25 percent as cathodes and approximately 21 percent as rod (principally from our North America operations). We also produce gold as a by product at our copper mines, primarily at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, which accounted for approximately 96 percent of our consolidated gold production for 2009. For 2009, approximately half of our consolidated molybdenum production was from the Henderson molybdenum mine and approximately 46 percent was produced as a by product at our North America copper mines. Refer to Operations for further discussion of our mining operations. The dramatic declines in copper and molybdenum prices in late 2008 and the deterioration of the economic and credit environment limited our ability to invest in growth projects and required us to make adjustments to our near term plans in late 2008 and early 2009 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). However, during 2009 copper prices improved from the January 2009 low of $1.38 per pound. Rising copper prices, along with higher volumes from the Grasberg mine and a lower cost structure at the North America copper mines, have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position during 2009, allowing us to manage volatile conditions effectively, reduce debt and reinstate cash dividends to shareholders, while maintaining our future growth opportunities. In addition, we have announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). At December 31, 2009, we had $2.7 billion in consolidated cash ($2.2 billion of which was available to our parent company). We had no borrowings and $39 million of letters of credit issued under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ($961 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). Our long term debt at December 31, 2009, was $6.3 billion. Although we have no significant debt maturities in the near term (refer to Capital Resources and Liquidity), during 2009, we repaid $1.0 billion in debt in advance of scheduled maturities (refer to Note 10). From January 1, 2010, to February 25, 2010, we have made additional open market debt purchases totaling $269 million for $293 million (refer to Note 23). We may consider additional opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities or redeem our currently redeemable Senior Floating Rate Notes. We view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the worlds economy and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. Refer to Consolidated Results for further discussion of our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 67 Table of Contents Outlook Following are our actual consolidated sales volumes for 2009 and our projected consolidated sales volumes for 2010: 2009 2010 (Actual) (Projected) Copper (billions of recoverable pounds): North America copper mines 1.2 1.0 South America copper mines 1.4 1.3 Indonesia mining 1.4 1.2 Africa mining 0.1 0.2 4.1 3.8 a Gold (millions of recoverable ounces): Indonesia mining 2.5 1.7 South America copper mines 0.1 0.1 2.6 1.8 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds)b 58 60 a. Represents the sum of projected copper sales volumes before rounding. b. Includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. Estimated sales volumes of approximately 3.8 billion pounds of copper for 2010 are lower than 2009 sales of 4.1 billion pounds primarily because of lower volumes in Indonesia as a result of transitioning to a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2010 and at our North America copper mines reflecting the impact of reduced 2009 mining activities on 2010 leaching operations. Estimated sales volumes of approximately 1.8 million ounces of gold for 2010 are lower than 2009 sales of 2.6 million ounces as a result of transitioning to a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2010. Estimated sales volumes of approximately 60 million pounds of molybdenum for 2010 approximate 2009 sales of 58 million pounds. Our projected sales volumes for 2010 depend on the achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors. Assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,100 per ounce of gold and $12 per pound of molybdenum for 2010, we estimate our consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by product credits and excluding Africa mining) for our copper mining operations would average approximately $0.86 per pound in 2010, compared with $0.55 per pound in 2009. Average unit net cash costs for 2010 are estimated to be higher than 2009 as a result of lower projected 2010 copper and gold sales volumes from Grasberg, combined with increases in commodity based input costs and foreign currency exchange rates. Consolidated unit net cash costs would be impacted by approximately $0.025 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in gold prices and approximately $0.01 per pound for each $1 per pound change in molybdenum prices. Consolidated revenues, operating cash flows and net income vary significantly with fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum, sales volumes and other factors. Based on the above projected consolidated sales volumes and assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,100 per ounce of gold and $12 per pound of molybdenum in 2010, our consolidated operating cash flows would approximate $5.3 billion in 2010, net of an estimated $0.4 billion for working capital requirements. Operating cash flows for 2010 would be impacted by approximately $260 million for each $0.10 per pound change in copper prices, $50 million for each $50 per ounce change in gold prices and $45 million for each $1 per pound change in molybdenum prices. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to approximate $1.7 billion, including $0.9 billion for sustaining capital and $0.8 billion for major projects. For 2009, capital expenditures totaled $1.6 billion, which included $0.8 billion for major projects, $0.6 billion for sustaining capital and $0.2 billion for a property acquisition adjacent to our Sierrita mine. We have announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). A number of studies are under way, which may result in increased capital spending programs. 68 Table of Contents COPPER, GOLD AND MOLYBDENUM MARKETS The graphs below illustrate the movements in metals prices from January 2000 through January 2010. World prices for copper, gold and molybdenum have fluctuated significantly during this period. The London Metal Exchange (LME) spot copper price varied from a low of $0.60 per pound in 2001 to a high of $4.08 per pound in 2008, the London gold price fluctuated from a low of $256 per ounce in 2001 to a high of $1,213 per ounce in 2009, and the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price ranged from a low of $2.19 per pound in 2000 to a high of $39.25 per pound in 2005. Copper, gold and molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control as described further in our Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009. * Excludes Shanghai stocks, producer, consumer and merchant stocks. The graph above presents LME spot copper prices and reported stocks of copper at the LME and the New York Mercantile Exchange (COMEX) from January 2000 through January 2010. From 2006 through most of 2008, disruptions associated with strikes and other operational issues, combined with growing demand from China and other emerging economies resulted in low levels of inventory. Beginning in late 2008, slowing consumption led to increases in inventory levels; however, Chinas increased buying activity contributed to a decline in exchange inventories during the first half of 2009. After reaching a low for the year in July 2009, inventories grew during the second half of 2009 with combined LME and COMEX stocks totaling approximately 592 thousand metric tons, or approximately two weeks of global consumption, at December 31, 2009. Turmoil in the United States (U.S.) financial markets and concerns about the global economy negatively impacted copper prices in late 2008, which declined to a four year low of $1.26 per pound in December 2008; however, copper prices improved during 2009 as a result of strong Chinese import activity and supply limitations. During 2009, LME spot copper prices ranged from $1.38 per pound to $3.33 per pound, averaged $2.34 per pound and closed at $3.33 per pound on December 31, 2009. While the near term outlook is uncertain, we believe the underlying fundamentals of the copper business remain positive, supported by limited supplies from existing mines and the absence of significant new development projects. Future copper prices are expected to be volatile and are likely to be influenced by demand from China, economic activity in the U.S. and other industrialized countries, the timing of the development of new supplies of copper and production levels of mines and copper smelters. The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. 69 Table of Contents The graph above presents London gold prices from January 2000 through January 2010. Growing investment demand and a weak U.S. dollar have continued to support gold prices, which reached a new record high of $1,213 per ounce in December 2009. During 2009, gold prices ranged from approximately $810 per ounce to $1,213 per ounce, averaged approximately $972 per ounce and closed at $1,104 per ounce on December 31, 2009. London gold prices closed at $1,079 per ounce on January 29, 2010. The graph above presents Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average prices from January 2000 through January 2010. In late 2008, molybdenum prices declined significantly as a result of the financial market turmoil and a decline in demand; however, molybdenum prices improved during 2009 supported by Chinese imports and supply reductions. During 2009, the weekly average price of molybdenum ranged from $7.83 per pound to $18.00 per pound, averaged $11.08 per pound and was $11.75 per pound on December 31, 2009. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price was $14.88 per pound on January 29, 2010. 70 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. The preparation of these statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We base these estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we consider reasonable under the circumstances; however, reported results could differ from those based on the current estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The areas requiring the use of managements estimates are also discussed in Note 1 under the subheading Use of Estimates. Management has reviewed the following discussion of its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Mineral Reserves. Recoverable proven and probable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates. Estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth of our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. In addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these estimates have been reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. The following table summarizes changes in our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper, gold and molybdenum reserves during 2008 and 2009: Copper Gold Molybdenum (billion (million (billion pounds) ounces) pounds) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2007 93.2 41.0 2.04 Net additions/revisions 12.8 0.3 0.51 Production (4.0) (1.3) (0.07) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2008 102.0 40.0 2.48 Net additions/revisions 6.3 (0.1) 0.16 Production (4.1) (2.7) (0.05) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2009 104.2 37.2 2.59 Net additions to recoverable proven and probable copper reserves during 2008 included additions of 7.5 billion pounds at the Cerro Verde mine in South America, 3.9 billion pounds at our North America copper mines and 1.6 billion pounds at the Tenke Fungurume mine, partially offset by revisions at other mines. Net additions for 2008 replaced over 300 percent of our 2008 copper production. Net additions to recoverable copper reserves during 2009 include additions of 1.7 billion pounds at our North America copper mines, 3.0 billion pounds at our Cerro Verde mine in South America and 2.6 billion pounds at the Tenke Fungurume mine, partially offset by revisions at other mines. Net additions for 2009 replaced approximately 150 percent of current year copper production. Net additions to recoverable copper reserves reflect analysis of exploratory data gained through core drilling undertaken in 2007 and 2008, as well as exploration activities during 2009. Refer to Note 21 for further information regarding estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves. As discussed in Note 1, we depreciate our life of mine mining and milling assets and values assigned to proven and probable reserves using the unit of production (UOP) method based on our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves, and also have other assets that are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations, including changes to prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values. Based on projected copper sales volumes for 2010 (refer to Overview and Outlook), if estimated copper reserves at our mines were 10 percent higher at December 31, 2009, we estimate that our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 2010 would decrease by $31 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders), and a 10 percent decrease in copper reserves would increase depreciation, depletion and amortization expense by $38 million ($18 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders). We perform annual assessments of our existing assets in connection with the review 71 Table of Contents of mine operating and development plans. If it is determined that assigned asset lives do not reflect the expected remaining period of benefit, any change could affect prospective depreciation rates. At December 31, 2009, our long lived assets include amounts assigned to proven and probable reserves totaling $4.3 billion. As discussed in Note 1, we review and evaluate our long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and changes to our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves could have an impact on our assessment of asset recoverability. Impairment of Assets. We evaluate our long lived assets (to be held and used) for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. In evaluating our long lived assets for recoverability, estimates of after tax undiscounted future cash flows of our individual mining operations are used, with impairment losses measured by reference to fair value. As quoted market prices are unavailable for our individual mining operations, fair value is determined through the use of discounted estimated future cash flows. The estimated cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations are derived from current business plans, which are developed using near term price forecasts reflective of the current price environment and managements projections for long term average metal prices. In addition to near and long term metal price assumptions, other key estimates include commodity based and other input costs; proven and probable reserves, including any costs to develop the reserves and the timing of producing the reserves; and the use of appropriate escalation and discount rates. Because the cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations require us to make several estimates and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainty, changes in these estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our long lived assets values. Events that could result in impairment of our long lived assets include, but are not limited to, (i) decreases in future metal prices, (ii) decreases in estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves and (iii) any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on mine site production levels or costs. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the then current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business, and therefore, evaluated our long lived assets for impairment. Projected metal prices represented the most significant assumption used in the cash flow estimates to assess recoverability and measure fair value of our individual mining operations. At the time of the March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge, metal price projections used to value the net assets acquired ranged from near term prices of $2.98 per pound for copper declining over an eight year period to $1.20 per pound and $26.20 per pound for molybdenum declining over a five year period to $8.00 per pound; our December 31, 2008, impairment evaluations were based on price assumptions reflecting prevailing copper futures prices for three years, which ranged from approximately $1.40 per pound to $1.50 per pound, and a long term average price of $1.60 per pound. Molybdenum prices were assumed to average $8.00 per pound. Our evaluation resulted in the recognition of asset impairment charges totaling $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.34 per share) for 2008. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these asset impairment charges. Additionally, goodwill was recorded in connection with the March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge and was assigned to the reporting units, or individual mines, that were expected to benefit from the business combination. Goodwill is required to be evaluated at least annually and at any other time if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Our annual goodwill impairment test was performed in fourth quarter 2008, which resulted in the full impairment of goodwill and the recognition of charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $15.69 per share). Refer to Note 6 for further discussion. Recoverable Copper. We record, as inventory, applicable costs for copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles that are expected to be processed in the future based on proven processing technologies. Mill and leach stockpiles are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are stated at the lower of cost or market (refer to Note 4 for discussion of lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory adjustments recorded in 2009 and 2008). Accounting for recoverable copper from mill and leach stockpiles represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, and therefore, requires management to employ reasonable estimation methods and (ii) recovery rates from leach stockpiles can vary significantly. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on 72 Table of Contents surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be extracted into copper concentrate almost immediately. Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small scale laboratory tests, small to large scale column testing (which simulates the production scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. At December 31, 2009, estimated recoverable copper was 2.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles (with a carrying value of $1.5 billion) and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (with a carrying value of $488 million). Reclamation and Closure Costs. Reclamation is an ongoing activity that occurs throughout the life of a mine. We record the fair value of our estimated asset retirement obligations (AROs) associated with tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. Fair value is measured as the present value of cash flow estimates after considering inflation and then applying a market risk premium. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. These cost estimates may differ from financial assurance cost estimates for reclamation activities because of a variety of factors, including obtaining updated cost estimates for reclamation activities, the timing of reclamation activities, changes in scope and the exclusion of certain costs not considered reclamation and closure costs. Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of our accounting policy for reclamation and closure costs. Generally, ARO activities are specified by regulations or in permits issued by the relevant governing authority, and management judgment is required to estimate the extent and timing of expenditures based on life of mine planning. Accounting for reclamation and closure costs represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) we will not incur most of these costs for a number of years, requiring us to make estimates over a long period, (ii) reclamation and closure laws and regulations could change in the future and or circumstances affecting our operations could change, either of which could result in significant changes to our current plans, (iii) calculating the fair value of our AROs requires management to estimate projected cash flows, make long term assumptions about inflation rates, determine our credit adjusted, risk free interest rates and determine market risk premiums that are appropriate for our operations and (iv) given the magnitude of our estimated reclamation and closure costs, changes in any or all of these estimates could have a significant impact on our results of operations. At least annually, we review our ARO estimates for changes in the projected timing of certain reclamation costs, changes in cost estimates, and additional AROs incurred during the period. Following is a summary of changes in our AROs for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of year $ 712 $ 728 $ 30 Liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge 531 a Liabilities incurred 12 5 1 Revisions to cash flow estimates (17 ) 21 179 b Accretion expense 52 51 27 Spending (28 ) (91 ) (40 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment (2 ) Balance at end of year $ 731 $ 712 $ 728 a. The fair value of AROs assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge was estimated based on projected cash flows, an estimated long term annual inflation rate of 2.4 percent, a discount rate based on FCXs estimated credit adjusted, risk free interest rate of 7.8 percent and a market risk premium of 10 percent to reflect what a third party might require to assume these AROs. b. During 2007, Chino and Tyrone each submitted updated third party closure cost estimates to the state of New Mexico as part of the permit renewal process. As a result, we revised our cash flow estimates and increased our ARO by $95 million for 73 Table of Contents Chino and $45 million for Tyrone. During 2009, Tyrone filed an appeal regarding the point of groundwater withdrawal. Finalized closure plan requirements, including those resulting from resolution of the appeal, may result in additional adjustments. Additionally, PT Freeport Indonesia updated its cost estimates primarily for changes to its plans for the treatment of acidic water, resulting in an increase of $33 million. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. Environmental Obligations. Our mining, exploration, production and historical operating activities are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, and compliance with those laws requires significant expenditures. Environmental expenditures for closed facilities and closed portions of operating facilities are expensed or capitalized depending upon their future economic benefits. The general guidance provided by U.S. GAAP requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 1 for discussion of our accounting policy for environmental expenditures. Accounting for environmental obligations represents a critical accounting estimate because changes to environmental laws and regulations and or circumstances affecting our operations, could result in significant changes to our estimates, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. We review changes in facts and circumstances associated with the environmental obligations on a quarterly basis. Judgments and estimates are based upon available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, remediation experience, whether or not we are a potentially responsible party (PRP), the ability of other PRPs to pay their allocated portions and take into consideration reasonably possible outcomes. Our cost estimates can change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or extent of site contamination, required remediation methods and actions by or against governmental agencies or private parties. At December 31, 2009, environmental obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheets totaled approximately $1.5 billion, which reflect obligations for environmental liabilities attributed to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. Following is a summary of changes in our estimated environmental obligations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of year $ 1,401 $ 1,268 $ Liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge 117 1,334 Accretion expensea 102 95 Additions 40 36 6 Reductions (3 ) (1 ) (1 ) Spending (76 ) (114 ) (71 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,464 $ 1,401 $ 1,268 a. Represents accretion of the fair values of environmental obligations assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, which were determined on a discounted cash flow basis. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of environmental obligations. Deferred Taxes. In preparing our annual consolidated financial statements, we estimate the actual amount of taxes currently payable or receivable as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in income in the period in which such changes are enacted. A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be realized. In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each jurisdiction. If we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets, we will increase our valuation allowance. Conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to realize all or a portion of the related benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided, all or a portion of the related valuation allowance will be reduced. 74 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, our valuation allowances totaled $2.2 billion and covered all of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards and U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards, and a portion of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards and U.S. minimum tax credit carryforwards. This valuation allowance includes $44 million relating to tax benefits that, if recognized, would be credited directly to contributed capital. At December 31, 2008, our valuation allowances totaled $1.8 billion and covered all of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards, U.S. minimum tax credit carryforwards, foreign net operating loss carryforwards and U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards, and also covered a portion of our net U.S. deferred tax assets. The $394 million increase in the valuation allowance during 2009 was primarily the result of an increase to the foreign tax credit carryforwards. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Financial Data (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenuesa $ 15,040 b $ 17,796 b $ 16,939 b,c Operating income (loss) 6,503 b (12,710 )b,d,e 6,555 b,c,e Income (loss) from continuing operations 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,733 Net income (loss) 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,779 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 785 617 802 Net income (loss) attributable to FCX common stockholdersf 2,527 g,h (11,341 )d,e,h 2,769 c,e,h Diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations $ 5.86 $ (29.72 ) $ 7.41 Discontinued operations 0.09 Diluted net income (loss) $ 5.86 g,h $ (29.72 )d,e,h $ 7.50 c,e,h Diluted weighted average common shares outstandingi 469 382 397 Mining Operating Data Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 4,103 4,030 3,367 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 4,111 4,066 3,357 Average realized price per pound $ 2.60 $ 2.69 $ 3.29 c Site production and delivery costs per poundj $ 1.12 $ 1.51 $ 1.18 Unit net cash costs per poundj $ 0.55 $ 1.16 $ 0.76 Gold (recoverable) Production (thousands of ounces) 2,664 1,291 2,308 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of ounces) 2,639 1,314 2,298 Average realized price per ounce $ 993 $ 861 $ 682 Molybdenum (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 54 73 56 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 58 71 52 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 26.81 a. Includes the impact of adjustments to provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales recognized in prior periods. Refer to Revenues and Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion. b. Following is a summary of revenues by operating division (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 North America copper mines $ 3,235 $ 5,265 $ 4,093 South America copper mines 3,839 4,166 3,879 Indonesia mining 5,908 3,412 4,808 Africa mining 389 Molybdenum 847 2,488 1,746 Rod & Refining 3,356 5,557 5,140 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 2,341 2,388 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (5,433 ) (5,115 ) Total FCX revenues $ 15,040 $ 17,796 $ 16,939 75 Table of Contents Following is a summary of operating income (loss) by operating division (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 North America copper mines $ 1,020 $ (11,522 ) $ 1,428 South America copper mines 2,001 (694 ) 2,224 Indonesia mining 4,034 1,307 3,033 Africa mining 8 (26 ) (12 ) Molybdenum 126 (1,473 ) 353 Rod & Refining 14 2 14 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining (56 ) 10 3 Corporate, other & eliminations (644 ) (314 ) (488 ) Total FCX operating income (loss) $ 6,503 $ (12,710 ) $ 6,555 Refer to Note 20 for further discussion of our operating divisions and business segments. c. Includes charges to revenues for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.27 per share) and a reduction in 2007 average realized copper prices of $0.05 per pound. d. Includes long lived asset impairments and other charges totaling $11.0 billion ($6.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.52 per share), goodwill impairment charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $15.69 per share), and charges for LCM inventory adjustments totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.26 per share). Refer to Notes 2 and 6 and Critical Accounting Estimates Asset Impairments for further discussion. e. Includes the impacts of purchase accounting fair value adjustments associated with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, which were primarily because of increased carrying values of acquired property, plant and equipment and metal inventories, including mill and leach stockpiles, and also includes amounts for non operating income and expense mostly related to accretion of the fair values of assumed environmental obligations (determined on a discounted cash flow basis). These impacts totaled $1.1 billion, including $1.0 billion to operating loss and $93 million for non operating income and expenses, ($679 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.78 per share) in 2008 and $1.3 billion to operating income ($793 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $2.00 per share) in 2007. Refer to Note 20 for a summary of the impacts of purchase accounting fair value adjustments on our business segments for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. f. After noncontrolling interests and preferred dividends. g. Includes charges of $43 million ($0.09 per share) for the partial settlement of the City of Blackwell lawsuit (see Note 14), and also includes a favorable adjustment to income tax expense totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) resulting from the completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. h. Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversions of debt totaling $43 million ($0.09 per share) in 2009 associated with the redemption of our $340 million of 6% Senior Notes and open market purchases of our 8.25% Senior Notes, our 8.375% Senior Notes and our 8% Senior Notes, $5 million ($0.01 per share) in 2008 associated with an open market purchase of our 9% Senior Notes and $132 million ($0.33 per share) in 2007 primarily related to premiums paid and the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with early repayments of debt. Refer to Note 10 for further discussion. i. As applicable, reflects assumed conversion of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock (which converted into 17.9 million shares of FCX common stock in September 2009) and 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (refer to Note 12). In addition, the 2009 period includes the effects of the 26.8 million shares of common stock we sold in February 2009. Common shares outstanding on December 31, 2009, totaled 430 million. j. Reflects per pound weighted average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for all copper mines, excluding net noncash and nonrecurring costs and Africa mining. For reconciliations of the per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs and to Product Revenues and Production Costs. 76 Table of Contents Revenues Consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, molybdenum, gold and other metals by our North and South America copper mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operation, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operation, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes, and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Our mining revenues for 2009 include sales of copper (approximately 75 percent), gold (approximately 17 percent) and molybdenum (approximately 5 percent). Consolidated revenues totaled $15.0 billion in 2009, compared with $17.8 billion in 2008 and $16.9 billion in 2007. Following is a summary of year to year changes in our consolidated revenues (in millions): 2009 2008 Consolidated revenues prior year $ 17,796 $ 16,939 Higher (lower) sales volumes from mining operations: Copper 121 2,367 Gold 1,141 (671 ) Molybdenum (395 ) 505 Higher (lower) price realizations from mining operations: Copper (288 ) (2,631 ) Gold 349 235 Molybdenum (1,056 ) 266 Lower purchased copper and molybdenum (1,414 ) (5 ) (Lower) higher adjustments, primarily for prior year provisionally priced sales (239 ) 309 Lower Atlantic Copper revenues (449 ) (47 ) Impact of the 2007 copper price protection program 175 Other, including intercompany eliminations (526 ) 354 Consolidated revenues current year $ 15,040 $ 17,796 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated sales volumes totaled 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 2.6 million ounces of gold and 58 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009, compared with 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 1.3 million ounces of gold and 71 million pounds of molybdenum in 2008. Higher copper sales volumes in 2009, when compared with 2008 (45 million pounds), primarily resulted from mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit and the contribution of 2009 sales volumes from the Tenke Fungurume mine, partly offset by lower sales volumes as a result of production curtailments at the North America copper mines and lower ore grades at Candelaria. Mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit also resulted in substantially higher gold sales volumes in 2009. Lower molybdenum sales volumes in 2009 reflected reduced demand in the metallurgical and chemical sectors. Refer to Operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. Consolidated revenues in 2009 were also impacted by lower copper and molybdenum prices compared to 2008. Realized copper prices decreased in 2009 to an average of $2.60 per pound, compared with $2.69 per pound in 2008. More significantly, realized molybdenum prices decreased to an average of $12.36 per pound in 2009, compared with $30.55 per pound in 2008. Partly offsetting lower copper and molybdenum prices were higher realized gold prices, which increased to an average of $993 per ounce in 2009, compared with $861 per ounce in 2008. We primarily purchase copper cathode to be processed by our Rod and Refining segment when production from our North America copper mines does not meet customer demand. Accordingly, the decrease in purchased copper for 2009, compared to 2008, resulted from lower demand. Under the long established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of our concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME prices (refer to Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion). Adjustments to the December 31, 2008, provisionally priced copper sales resulted in a net increase to consolidated revenues of $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or 77 Table of Contents $0.13 per share) in 2009, compared with an increase of $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.30 per share) in 2008. 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated sales volumes in 2008 totaled 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 1.3 million ounces of gold and 71 million pounds of molybdenum, compared with 3.4 billion pounds of copper, 2.3 million ounces of gold and 52 million pounds of molybdenum in 2007. Higher copper and molybdenum sales volumes in 2008 reflected a full twelve months of sales at our North and South America copper mines and Molybdenum operations, compared with 2007, which included sales from these operations beginning March 20, 2007. Higher copper sales volumes in 2008 also reflected additional copper production from the Safford mine, which began production in December 2007, and higher production from the Cerro Verde concentrator, which reached design capacity in mid 2007. Gold sales volumes for 2008 were lower than in 2007 because of mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first nine months of 2008, which resulted in lower grades and recovery rates. Refer to Operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. Realized copper prices decreased in 2008 to an average of $2.69 per pound, compared with $3.34 per pound (excluding the impact from the 2007 copper price protection program) in 2007. Realized gold and molybdenum prices increased in 2008 to an average of $861 per ounce for gold and $30.55 per pound for molybdenum, compared with $682 per ounce for gold and $26.81 per pound for molybdenum in 2007. Adjustments to the December 31, 2007, provisionally priced copper sales increased consolidated revenues by $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.30 per share) in 2008, compared with a decrease of $42 million ($18 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.05 per share) in 2007. On limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. Also, in connection with the Phelps Dodge acquisition, we assumed the 2007 copper price protection program, which resulted in charges to revenues in 2007 totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.27 per share). The 2007 copper price protection program matured on December 31, 2007. We do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future. Production and Delivery Costs 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $7.0 billion in 2009 compared with $10.4 billion in 2008. Lower production and delivery costs for 2009 primarily reflect the effects of lower operating rates at our North America copper mines, lower commodity based input costs and lower purchases of copper. Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally electricity, diesel, coal and natural gas. Commodity based input costs began declining in late 2008 and we realized the benefits of these declines in 2009. Excluding Africa mining, energy costs approximated 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs in 2009, compared with approximately 25 percent in 2008, and included purchases of approximately 190 million gallons of diesel fuel, 5,700 gigawatt hours of electricity at our North and South America mines (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation), 800 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia, and 1 million MMBTU (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. For 2010, we estimate energy costs, excluding Africa mining, will approximate 22 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. Consolidated unit site production and delivery costs for our copper mining operations, excluding net noncash and nonrecurring costs and Africa mining, averaged $1.12 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.51 per pound of copper in 2008. Lower site production and delivery costs in 2009 reflected higher copper ore grades at Grasberg, reduced operating rates at our North America copper mines to suspend production of high cost incremental volumes, achievement of cost savings initiatives and operating efficiencies, and lower energy and other commodity based input costs. Refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs for further discussion of unit net cash costs associated with our operating divisions, and to Product Revenues and Production Costs for reconciliations of per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. We will incorporate Africa mining in our consolidated unit net cash cost disclosures upon completion of ramp up activities, which is expected in 2010. 78 Table of Contents 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $10.4 billion in 2008 compared with $8.5 billion in 2007. Higher production and delivery costs for 2008 reflect a full year of costs associated with our acquired copper and molybdenum operations in North and South America and the impact of higher costs, principally for commodity based input costs such as energy and sulphuric acid. Partly offsetting these higher costs were $656 million of lower purchase accounting impacts associated with increased inventory values that were mostly realized in 2007. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.0 billion in 2009 compared with $1.8 billion in 2008. The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense reflected the impact of long lived asset impairments recognized at December 31, 2008 (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Impairments of Assets for further discussion). 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.8 billion in 2008 compared with $1.2 billion in 2007. The increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense reflected higher purchase accounting impacts of $293 million primarily related to a full twelve months in 2008, and also reflected higher depreciation expense under the unit of production method resulting from a full year of production from our North and South America copper mines in 2008. LCM Inventory Adjustments Inventories are required to be recorded at the lower of cost or market. In first quarter 2009, we recognized charges of $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.03 per share) for lower of cost or market (LCM) molybdenum inventory adjustments. There were no further LCM inventory adjustments recorded subsequent to first quarter 2009. In 2008, we recorded LCM inventory adjustments totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.26 per share). Inventories acquired in connection with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge (including long term mill and leach stockpiles) were recorded at fair value using near term price forecasts reflecting the then current price environment and managements projections for long term average metal prices. The charges recognized in 2008 were based on prevailing copper futures prices for three years, which ranged from approximately $1.40 per pound to $1.50 per pound, and a long term average price of $1.60 per pound. Molybdenum prices were assumed to average $8.00 per pound. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $321 million in 2009 compared with $269 million in 2008. Higher selling, general and administrative expenses primarily reflected a net increase in incentive compensation costs, partly offset by reductions associated with administrative costs savings initiatives. 2008 Compared with 2007 Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $269 million in 2008 compared with $466 million in 2007. Lower selling, general and administrative expenses primarily reflected lower incentive compensation costs in 2008 because of weaker financial results. Exploration and Research Expenses Exploration activities are being conducted near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where we currently operate. Significantly expanded drilling activities during 2007 and 2008 were successful in providing reserve additions and in identifying potential additional ore adjacent to existing ore bodies. Results indicate opportunities for future potential reserve additions at Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad in North America, at Cerro Verde in South America and in the Tenke Fungurume district. Consolidated exploration and research expenses totaled $90 million in 2009, $292 million in 2008 and $145 million in 2007. Throughout most of 2008, expenditures primarily reflected increased exploration efforts in North America and also in Africa, including targets outside the area of initial development at Tenke Fungurume. However, in response to weak market conditions at the end of 2008, we revised operating plans to significantly reduce exploration costs in 2009. During 2009, we focused on analyzing exploration data gained through the core drilling 79 Table of Contents previously undertaken in addition to conducting new activities. For 2010, exploration expenditures are expected to approximate $100 million. Exploration activities will continue to focus on the potential in our existing mineral districts. Long Lived Asset Impairments and Other Charges During 2009, net restructuring and other charges totaled $77 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share), which included charges of $54 million ($43 million to net income or $0.09 per share) associated with the partial settlement of the City of Blackwell lawsuit. During 2008, we recognized charges totaling $11.0 billion ($6.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.52 per share) for long lived asset impairments and other charges. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the declines in copper and molybdenum prices and the deterioration of the economic environment represented significant adverse changes in the business, and therefore evaluated our long lived assets for impairment as of December 31, 2008, which resulted in the recognition of asset impairment charges totaling $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $17.34 per share). In addition, during fourth quarter 2008, we recorded net restructuring and other charges totaling $111 million ($67 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.18 per share) associated with our revised operating plans, including contract termination costs, other project cancellation costs, employee severance and benefits and special retirement benefits and curtailments. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these charges. Goodwill Impairment Our annual impairment test of goodwill at December 31, 2008, resulted in the recognition of goodwill impairment charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $15.69 per share). Refer to Note 6 for further discussion. Interest Expense, Net Consolidated interest expense (before capitalization) totaled $664 million in 2009, $706 million in 2008 and $660 million in 2007. Lower interest expense in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected net repayments of debt and lower interest rates on our variable rate debt during 2009. Higher interest expense in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected the impacts associated with accretion of the fair values of environmental obligations (determined on a discounted cash flow basis) assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, partly offset by lower interest expense associated with net repayments of debt during 2007. Refer to Capital Resources and Liquidity Financing Activities for discussion of debt repayments. Capitalized interest is primarily related to our development projects and totaled $78 million in 2009, $122 million in 2008 and $147 million in 2007. The decrease in capitalized interest in 2009 primarily reflects the substantial completion of development activities at our Tenke Fungurume mine. Refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion. Losses on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $48 million ($43 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.09 per share), including $14 million ($13 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders) associated with the redemption of our $340 million of 6% Senior Notes and $34 million ($30 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders) for open market purchases of our 8.25% Senior Notes, 8.375% Senior Notes and 8% Senior Notes. During 2008, we recorded net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $6 million ($5 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.01 per share) associated with an open market purchase of $33 million of our 9% Senior Notes. During 2007, we recorded net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $173 million ($132 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.33 per share) primarily related to the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with early repayment of amounts under the $11.5 billion senior credit facility, including the refinancing of the Tranche B term loan. Also included was $17 million ($10 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.02 per share) related to premiums paid and the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with the May 2007 redemption of our 10% Senior Notes. 80 Table of Contents Refer to Note 10 for further discussion of these transactions. Gains on Sales of Assets Gains on sales of assets totaled $13 million ($8 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.02 per share) in 2008 and $85 million ($52 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share) in 2007 primarily associated with sales of marketable securities. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net, totaled $(53) million in 2009, $(22) million in 2008 and $157 million in 2007. The decrease in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to lower interest income ($46 million). The decrease in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily related to lower interest income ($82 million) and higher foreign currency exchange losses ($64 million) mostly associated with estimated Chilean tax payments. (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes Our income tax provision for 2009 resulted from taxes on international operations ($2.3 billion) and U.S. operations ($35 million). Our effective tax rate is sensitive to changes in commodity prices and the mix of income between U.S. and international operations. The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 40 percent in 2009 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia, which was taxed at an effective tax rate of 42 percent. Our benefit from income taxes in 2008 resulted from U.S. operations ($3.4 billion), partly offset by taxes on international operations ($604 million). The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 21 percent in 2008 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to goodwill impairment charges, which were non deductible for tax purposes, and the recognition of a valuation allowance against U.S. federal alternative minimum tax credits, partly offset by benefits for percentage depletion and U.S. state income taxes. A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated (provision for) benefit from income taxes for 2009 and 2008 follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Income Tax Income Tax Income Effective (Provision) Income Effective (Provision) (Loss)a Tax Rate Benefit (Loss)a Tax Rate Benefit U.S. $ 117 70% $ (82 ) $ 1,258 15% $ (191 ) South America 2,010 32% (650 ) 1,752 32% (553 ) Indonesia 4,000 42% (1,697 ) 1,432 43% (612 ) Africa (60 ) 25% 15 (187 ) 35% 66 Asset impairment charges N/A (10,867 ) 39% 4,212 Goodwill impairment charges N/A (5,987 ) N/A LCM inventory adjustments (19 ) 20% 4 (782 ) 38% 299 Eliminations and other (232 ) N/A 60 72 N/A (18 ) Adjustments N/A N/A 43 b N/A N/A (359 )c Consolidated FCX $ 5,816 40% $ (2,307 ) $ (13,309 ) 21% $ 2,844 a. Represents income (loss) from continuing operations (by geographic location) before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings. b. Includes a favorable adjustment totaling $43 million resulting from completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. c. Represents an adjustment to establish a valuation allowance against U.S. federal alternative minimum tax credits. Our estimated consolidated effective tax rate for 2010 will vary with commodity price changes and the mix of income from international and U.S. operations. Assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound for copper, $1,100 per ounce for gold, $12 per pound for molybdenum and current sales estimates, we estimate our annual consolidated effective tax rate will approximate 37 percent; however, the rate would range from approximately 40 percent at $2.50 per pound for copper to approximately 37 percent at $3.50 per pound for copper. 81 Table of Contents Our income tax provision from continuing operations in 2007 resulted from taxes on international operations ($2.2 billion) and U.S. operations ($215 million). The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 39 percent for 2007 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to (i) withholding taxes related to earnings from Indonesia and South America mining operations, (ii) a U.S. foreign tax credit limitation and (iii) an adjustment associated with the reversal of the Phelps Dodge indefinite reinvestment assertion on certain earnings in South America, partly offset by a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion and an international tax rate differential. A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for 2007 follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2007 Income Effective Income Tax (Loss)a Tax Rate Provision U.S. $ 976 22% $ (215 ) South America 2,254 33% (742 ) Indonesia 2,860 46% (1,326 ) Africa (3 ) NM* (4 ) Eliminations and other 24 N/A (2 ) Adjustments N/A N/A (111 )b Consolidated FCX $ 6,111 39% $ (2,400 ) * NM Not meaningful a. Represents income from continuing operations (by geographic location) before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings. b. Represents an adjustment for a one time charge associated with the reversal of the Phelps Dodge indefinite reinvestment assertion on certain earnings in South America. This adjustment was fully offset by a reduction in noncontrolling interests share of net income. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of income taxes. OPERATIONS For comparative purposes, certain of the operating data included in this section for our North America copper mines, South America copper mines and Molybdenum operations for the year 2007, combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. North America Copper Mines We currently have six operating copper mines in North America Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford and Miami in Arizona, and Tyrone in New Mexico. All of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci, an unincorporated joint venture, in which we own an 85 percent undivided interest. The North America copper mines include open pit mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations. In addition to copper, the Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad mines produce molybdenum as a by product. A majority of the copper produced at our North America copper mines is cast into copper rod by our Rod & Refining operations. Rod and wire sales to outside wire and cable manufacturers represented approximately 72 percent of North America copper sales in 2009. The remainder of our North America copper sales is primarily in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate. Refer to Note 20 for further discussion of our reportable segment in the North America copper mines division. In response to weak market conditions, operating plans at our North America copper mines were revised at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 primarily to reflect curtailed production rates, capital cost reductions and the incorporation of reduced input costs (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). In October 2009, we announced initiatives to resume limited mining activities at the Miami mine in Arizona. This project, which was deferred in late 2008, will improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site. In addition, we are initiating activities to restart the Morenci mill, which was temporarily idled in February 2009, 82 Table of Contents to process available sulfide material currently being mined. Refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion of these development projects. Operating plans at our North America copper mines continue to be reviewed and additional adjustments will be made in response to changes in market conditions. In December 2009, we purchased property adjacent to our Sierrita operations, which includes the Twin Buttes copper mine, that ceased operations in 1994 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. 2009 2008 2007a Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,147 1,430 1,320 Sales, excluding purchases 1,187 1,434 1,332 Average realized price per pound $ 2.38 $ 3.07 $ 3.10 b Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productionc 25 30 30 100% Operating Data SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 589,400 1,095,200 798,200 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.29 0.22 0.23 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 859 943 940 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 169,900 249,600 223,800 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 0.33 0.40 0.35 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 86.0 82.9 84.5 Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper 364 599 501 Molybdenum 25 30 30 a. The North America copper mines operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Amount was $3.25 per pound of copper before charges for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program. c. Reflects by product molybdenum production from the North America copper mines. Sales of by product molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum division. 2009 Compared with 2008 Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines decreased to 1.2 billion pounds in 2009, compared with 1.4 billion pounds in 2008. Certain of our North America copper mines continue to operate at reduced rates in response to reduced demand for copper in the western world. Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines are expected to approximate 1.0 billion pounds in 2010 which reflects the impacts of reduced 2009 mining activities on 2010 leaching operations. By product molybdenum production from our North America copper mines is expected to approximate 30 million pounds in 2010. 2008 Compared with 2007 Copper sales from the North America mines increased to 1.4 billion pounds in 2008, compared with 1.3 billion pounds for the combined year 2007, primarily reflecting additional copper production from the Safford mine, which began production in December 2007 and was ramping up to design capacity during 2008 before operating plans were revised in fourth quarter 2008 to curtail production. 83 Table of Contents Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper and Molybdenum The following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Compared with 2008 2009 2008 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Molyb Product Molyb Method Copper denuma Method Copper denuma Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2.38 $ 2.38 $ 10.96 $ 3.07 $ 3.07 $ 30.25 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.25 1.15 5.67 1.88 1.63 12.67 By product creditsa (0.23 ) (0.64 ) Treatment charges 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09 Unit net cash costs 1.11 1.24 5.67 1.33 1.72 12.67 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.22 0.21 0.40 0.53 0.46 2.81 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.11 0.11 0.07 0.52 0.49 1.34 Total unit costs 1.44 1.56 6.14 2.38 2.67 16.82 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging 0.08 0.08 (0.05 ) (0.05 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.06 ) (0.06 ) (0.05 ) Gross profit per pound $ 0.94 $ 0.82 $ 4.82 $ 0.58 $ 0.29 $ 13.38 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,185 1,185 1,430 1,430 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)b 25 30 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Reflects molybdenum produced by the North America copper mines. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines decreased to $1.11 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.33 per pound in 2008, primarily reflecting a net decrease in site production and delivery costs ($0.63 per pound) associated with cost reduction and efficiency efforts, including the impact of lower operating rates and reduced input costs (principally for energy), partly offset by changes in inventory, which reflects the impact of historical higher cost production on inventory carrying values. The decrease in site production and delivery costs was partly offset by lower molybdenum credits ($0.41 per pound) primarily resulting from lower molybdenum prices and sales volumes. Our operating North America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and ore characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2009, unit net cash costs for the North America copper mines ranged from a net cost of $0.91 per pound to $1.66 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.11 per pound. Based on current operating plans and assuming achievement of current sales estimates and average prices of $12 per pound of molybdenum for 2010, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines would approximate $1.23 per pound of copper in 2010. Unit net cash costs for 2010 are expected to be higher, compared with 2009, primarily because of higher input costs and lower volumes, partly offset by higher molybdenum credits. Each $1 per pound change in the average molybdenum price during the year would have an approximate $0.02 per pound impact on the North America copper mines 2010 unit net cash costs. 84 Table of Contents The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the impact of the long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as LCM inventory adjustments and other unusual charges. Noncash and nonrecurring costs for 2008 include charges for LCM inventory adjustments, which totaled $661 million, or $0.46 per pound in 2008; there were no LCM copper inventory adjustments recorded at the North America mines in 2009. Revenue adjustments primarily reflect unrealized gains (losses) on copper derivative contracts entered into with our U.S. copper rod customers, which allow us to receive market prices in the month of shipment while the customer pays the fixed price they requested (refer to Note 16 for further discussion). 2008 Compared with 2007 2008 2007a By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Molyb Product Molyb Method Copper denumb Method Copper denumb Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3.07 $ 3.07 $ 30.25 $ 3.40 $ 3.40 $ 30.69 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.88 1.63 12.67 1.46 1.25 10.85 By product creditsb (0.64 ) (0.69 ) Treatment charges 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.10 Unit net cash costs 1.33 1.72 12.67 0.87 1.35 10.85 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.53 0.46 2.81 0.47 0.40 2.89 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.52 0.49 1.34 0.35 0.33 0.15 Total unit costs 2.38 2.67 16.82 1.69 2.08 13.89 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging (0.05 ) (0.05 ) (0.20 ) (0.20 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.06 ) (0.06 ) (0.05 ) (0.05 ) (0.05 ) (0.03 ) Gross profit per pound $ 0.58 $ 0.29 $ 13.38 $ 1.46 $ 1.07 $ 16.77 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,430 1,430 1,038 1,038 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)c 30 23 a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. b. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. c. Reflects molybdenum produced by the North America copper mines. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines increased to $1.33 per pound of copper in 2008, compared with $0.87 per pound of copper for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, primarily reflecting production cost increases associated with higher mining costs and milling rates, higher energy costs and costs of other consumables and higher costs associated with Safford as the mine ramped up to full production rates. The increase in noncash and nonrecurring costs for 2008 primarily reflected charges for LCM inventory adjustments in 2008 totaling $661 million ($0.46 per pound), partly offset by lower purchase accounting impacts related to increased carrying values of acquired inventory, which totaled $24 million ($0.02 per pound) in 2008 and $344 million ($0.33 per pound) in 2007. Revenue adjustments primarily reflect unrealized losses on copper derivative contracts entered into with our U.S. copper rod customers. In 2007, revenue adjustments also reflected mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program totaling $175 million ($0.17 per pound). South America Copper Mines We have four operating copper mines in South America Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile. We own a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an 80 percent interest in both Candelaria and Ojos del Salado and a 51 percent interest in El Abra. The South America copper mines include open pit and underground mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and SX/EW operations. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum concentrates as a 85 Table of Contents by product, and the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver as by products. Production from our South America copper mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under long term contracts. Beginning in 2008, our South America copper mines began selling a portion of their copper concentrate and cathode inventories to Atlantic Copper, an affiliated smelter. Refer to Note 20 for further discussion of our reportable segment in the South America copper mines division. In response to weak market conditions, operating plans at our South America copper mines were revised at the end of 2008 primarily to reflect the incorporation of reduced input costs and a reduction in capital spending plans. We also temporarily curtailed the molybdenum circuit at Cerro Verde (which resumed in September 2009). In October 2009, we announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities, including development of sulfide ores at El Abra and an expansion of the Cerro Verde concentrator (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). Refer to Note 14 for information on contingencies at our South America copper mines. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the South America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The below operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. 2009 2008 2007a Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,390 1,506 1,413 Sales 1,394 1,521 1,399 Average realized price per pound $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 3.25 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 92 114 116 Sales 90 116 114 Average realized price per ounce $ 982 $ 853 $ 683 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productionb 2 3 1 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 258,200 279,700 289,100 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.45 0.45 0.43 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 565 560 569 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 181,300 181,400 167,900 Average ore grade:c Copper (percent) 0.66 0.75 0.74 Molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 88.9 89.2 87.1 Production: Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 825 946 844 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) 92 114 116 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) 2 3 1 a. The South America copper mines operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Reflects by product molybdenum production from our Cerro Verde copper mine. Sales of by product molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum segment. c. Average ore grades of gold produced at our South America mines rounds to less than 0.001 grams per metric ton. 2009 Compared with 2008 Copper sales volumes from the South America copper mines decreased to 1.4 billion pounds in 2009, compared with 1.5 billion for the year 2008, primarily reflecting lower ore grades at Candelaria and downtime for mill maintenance at Cerro Verde. Consolidated sales volumes from our South America copper mines are expected to 86 Table of Contents approximate 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold in 2010. Projected copper sales volumes for 2010 are lower than 2009 primarily because of the impact of anticipated lower ore grades at El Abra. 2008 Compared with 2007 Copper sales volumes from the South America copper mines increased to 1.5 billion pounds in 2008, compared with 1.4 billion pounds for the combined year 2007, primarily reflecting higher production from the Cerro Verde concentrator, which reached design capacity in mid 2007. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper The following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at the South America copper mines for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. The below tables reflect unit net cash costs per pound of copper under the by product and co product methods as the South America copper mines also had small amounts of molybdenum, gold and silver sales. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Compared with 2008 2009 2008 By Product Co Product By Product Co Product Method Method Method Method Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2.70 $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 2.57 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.08 1.02 1.13 1.07 By product credits (0.11 ) (0.13 ) Treatment charges 0.15 0.15 0.14 0.14 Unit net cash costs 1.12 1.17 1.14 1.21 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.20 0.19 0.33 0.32 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.02 0.02 0.07 0.06 Total unit costs 1.34 1.38 1.54 1.59 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.08 0.08 0.15 0.15 Other non inventoriable costs (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Gross profit per pound $ 1.42 $ 1.38 $ 1.16 $ 1.11 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,394 1,394 1,521 1,521 Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America copper mines decreased to $1.12 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.14 per pound in 2008, primarily reflecting lower site production and delivery costs ($0.05 per pound) associated with lower input costs (primarily for energy). Our South America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and ore characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2009, unit net cash costs for the South America copper mines ranged from $1.01 per pound to $1.24 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.12 per pound. Assuming achievement of current sales volumes estimates and estimates for commodity based inputs, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America copper mines would approximate $1.20 per pound of copper in 2010. Unit net cash costs for 2010 are expected to be higher, than in 2009, primarily because of lower volumes and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, partly offset by lower sulphuric acid costs. 87 Table of Contents The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the impact of the long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these impairment charges). 2008 Compared with 2007 2008 2007a By Product Co Product By Product Co Product Method Method Method Method Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2.57 $ 2.57 $ 3.30 $ 3.30 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.13 1.07 0.92 0.88 By product credits (0.13 ) (0.09 ) Treatment charges 0.14 0.14 0.20 0.20 Unit net cash costs 1.14 1.21 1.03 1.08 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.33 0.32 0.32 0.32 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.07 0.06 0.14 0.14 Total unit costs 1.54 1.59 1.49 1.54 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.15 0.15 0.06 0.06 Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Gross profit per pound $ 1.16 $ 1.11 $ 1.85 $ 1.80 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,521 1,521 1,177 1,177 a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) increased to $1.14 per pound of copper in 2008, compared with $1.03 per pound for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, reflecting production cost increases associated with higher mining costs and milling rates and higher energy, sulphuric acid and other commodity based input costs. These increases were partly offset by higher volumes, higher by product credits and lower treatment charges during 2008. The change in noncash and nonrecurring costs for 2008 primarily reflects lower purchase accounting impacts related to increased carrying values of acquired inventory, which totaled $46 million ($0.03 per pound) in 2008 and $169 million ($0.14 per pound) in 2007. Indonesia Mining Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg minerals district. We own 90.64 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, including 9.36 percent owned through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama. PT Freeport Indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver. Substantially all of PT Freeport Indonesias copper concentrates are sold under long term contracts, approximately one half of its concentrate production is sold to affiliated smelters, Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting (PT Freeport Indonesias 25 percent owned copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia refer to Note 3 for further discussion), and the remainder to other customers. PT Freeport Indonesia operates under an agreement, called a Contract of Work, with the Government of Indonesia that allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in a 24,700 acre area called Block A located in Papua, Indonesia (refer to Note 15 for further discussion). Under the Contract of Work, PT Freeport Indonesia also conducts exploration activities in an approximate 500,000 acre area called Block B in Papua. All of PT Freeport Indonesias proven and probable mineral reserves and current mining operations, including the Grasberg minerals district, are located in Block A. We have established certain unincorporated joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc (Rio Tinto), an international mining company with headquarters in London, England. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021 in Block A of PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work, and, after 2021, a 40 percent interest in all production from Block A. Refer to Note 3 for further discussion of joint ventures with Rio Tinto. 88 Table of Contents As originally reported in January 2006, we received and responded to requests for U.S. governmental authorities related to PT Freeport Indonesias support of Indonesian security institutions. In May 2009, we were notified by the SEC that the U.S. governments investigation has been completed and no action has been recommended. Since July 2009, there have been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at the Grasberg mining complex, including an incident in January 2010. In connection with these incidents, there have been three fatalities (including a PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. The investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. See Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009, for further discussion of these matters. Refer to Note 14 for information on contingencies at our Indonesia mining operations. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: 2009 2008 2007 Consolidated Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,412 1,094 1,151 Sales 1,400 1,111 1,131 Average realized price per pound $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 3.32 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 2,568 1,163 2,198 Sales 2,543 1,182 2,185 Average realized price per ounce $ 994 $ 861 $ 681 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day): Grasberg open pita 166,300 129,800 159,100 Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground minea 72,000 63,100 53,500 Total 238,300 192,900 212,600 Average ore grade: Copper (percent) 0.98 0.83 0.82 Gold (grams per metric ton) 1.30 0.66 1.24 Recovery rates (percent): Copper 90.6 90.1 90.5 Gold 83.7 79.9 86.2 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 1,641 1,109 1,211 Gold (thousands of ounces) 2,984 1,163 2,608 a. Amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at PT Freeport Indonesias mill facilities from each producing mine. 2009 Compared with 2008 At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold. PT Freeport Indonesias share of sales increased to 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.5 million ounces of gold in 2009, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold in 2008, as a result of mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2009, including accelerated mining of a higher grade section that was previously scheduled to be mined in future periods. PT Freeport Indonesias sales for 2010 are expected to approximate 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.7 million ounces of gold, which is lower than 2009 volumes, as a result of transitioning to a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit in 2010. Anticipated changes in ore grades throughout the year are expected to result in variability in quarterly volumes. Approximately 60 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias copper and gold production is expected in the second half of 2010. 89 Table of Contents 2008 Compared with 2007 PT Freeport Indonesias share of sales totaled 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold in 2008, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 2.2 million ounces of gold in 2007. Lower gold sales volumes in 2008 resulted from mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first nine months of 2008. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper/per Ounce of Gold The following tables summarize the unit net cash (credits) costs and gross profit per pound of copper and per ounce of gold at our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Refer to Production Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Compared with 2008 2009 2008 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Product Method Copper Gold Method Copper Gold Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 2.65 $ 2.65 $ 993.72 $ 2.36 $ 2.36 $ 861.43 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.05 0.62 231.57 1.59 1.13 412.72 Gold and silver credits (1.86 ) (0.97 ) Treatment charges 0.22 0.13 49.18 0.24 0.17 62.69 Royalty on metals 0.10 0.06 23.18 0.10 0.07 26.50 Unit net cash (credits) costs (0.49 ) 0.81 303.93 0.96 1.37 501.91 Depreciation and amortization 0.20 0.11 43.36 0.20 0.14 52.09 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.03 0.02 5.93 0.03 0.02 7.18 Total unit (credits) costs (0.26 ) 0.94 353.22 1.19 1.53 561.18 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.04 0.04 2.12 0.09 0.09 5.86 PT Smelting intercompany profit (0.04 ) (0.02 ) (8.45 ) 0.01 0.01 4.18 Gross profit per pound/ounce $ 2.91 $ 1.73 $ 634.17 $ 1.27 $ 0.93 $ 310.29 Consolidated sales Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,400 1,400 1,111 1,111 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) 2,543 1,182 Because of the fixed nature of a large portion of PT Freeport Indonesias costs, unit costs vary significantly from period to period depending on volumes of copper and gold sold during the period. Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) decreased to a net credit of $0.49 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with a net cost of $0.96 per pound in 2008, reflecting higher gold and silver credits ($0.89 per pound) resulting from higher gold sales volumes and prices in 2009, and lower site production and delivery costs ($0.54 per pound) primarily associated with higher copper sales volumes and lower commodity based input costs. Treatment charges vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper, and royalties vary with the volume of metals sold and the prices of copper and gold. Because the majority of PT Freeport Indonesias costs are fixed, unit costs vary with volumes sold and the price of gold. Assuming achievement of current sales volume estimates, average gold prices of $1,100 per ounce in 2010, and estimates for energy costs, currency exchange rates and other cost factors, we estimate that average unit net cash costs for PT Freeport Indonesia (net of gold and silver credits) would approximate $0.21 per pound of copper in 2010. Unit net cash costs for 2010 are expected to be higher, compared with 2009, primarily because of lower 90 Table of Contents projected sales volumes and higher commodity based input costs. Each $50 per ounce change in average gold prices during the year would have an approximate $0.07 per pound impact on PT Freeport Indonesias 2010 unit net cash costs. 2008 Compared with 2007 2008 2007 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Product Method Copper Gold Method Copper Gold Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 2.36 $ 2.36 $ 861.43 $ 3.32 $ 3.32 $ 680.74 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1.59 1.13 412.72 1.19 0.85 172.23 Gold and silver credits (0.97 ) (1.36 ) Treatment charges 0.24 0.17 62.69 0.34 0.24 49.45 Royalty on metals 0.10 0.07 26.50 0.12 0.08 17.05 Unit net cash costs 0.96 1.37 501.91 0.29 1.17 238.73 Depreciation and amortization 0.20 0.14 52.09 0.17 0.12 25.54 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.03 0.02 7.18 0.04 0.03 5.90 Total unit costs 1.19 1.53 561.18 0.50 1.32 270.17 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.09 0.09 5.86 0.03 0.03 1.07 PT Smelting intercompany profit 0.01 0.01 4.18 0.01 0.01 1.71 Gross profit per pound/ounce $ 1.27 $ 0.93 $ 310.29 $ 2.86 $ 2.04 $ 413.35 Consolidated sales Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,111 1,111 1,131 1,131 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,182 2,185 Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) increased to $0.96 per pound of copper in 2008, compared with $0.29 per pound in 2007, reflecting lower gold and silver credits associated with lower gold volumes in 2008, higher input costs, including higher mining rates and energy costs, and also reflected the impact of changes in cost sharing with our joint venture partner. Partly offsetting these increases were lower treatment charges, which vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper. Africa Mining Africa mining includes the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the DRC. We own an effective 57.75 percent interest in Tenke and are the operator of the project. The Tenke mine includes open pit mining, leaching and SX/EW operations. Copper production from the Tenke mine is sold as copper cathode. In addition to copper, the Tenke mine produces cobalt hydroxide. Construction activities for the initial development project are complete. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and Tenke achieved targeted copper production rates in September 2009. Start up and quality issues continue to be addressed in the cobalt circuit and sustained targeted production rates are expected to be reached during 2010. Current operations are designed to produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year. Refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion of the Tenke Fungurume project. We are continuing to work cooperatively with the DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review but cannot predict the timing or the outcome of this process. The contract review process has not affected our development schedule and we are continuing to operate pursuant to the terms of our contract. We believe that the contract is fair and equitable, complies with Congolese law and is enforceable without modifications. Refer to Note 15 for further discussion. See Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009, for further discussion of these matters. 91 Table of Contents Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Africa mining operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. 2009a Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 154 Sales 130 Average realized price per pound $ 2.85 Ore milled (metric tons per day) 7,300 Average ore grade (percent) 3.69 Copper recovery rate (percent) 92.1 a. Results for 2009 represent mining operations which began production in March 2009. Tenkes sales volumes are expected to approximate 240 million pounds of copper and over 20 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2010. The high grades of copper and cobalt in the ore at the Tenke mine are expected to result in an attractive cost structure once the full operation reaches design capacity. Upon reaching design capacity in the copper and cobalt circuits and assuming average cobalt prices of $10 per pound, average unit net cash costs for Tenke are targeted to be $0.50 per pound of copper. Each $2 per pound change in average cobalt prices would have an approximate $0.12 per pound impact on Tenkes unit net cash costs. We will incorporate Tenke in our consolidated unit net cash cost disclosure upon completion of ramp up activities, expected during 2010. Pursuant to our agreement with Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin), we were responsible for funding our share (70 percent) of project development costs and 100 percent of certain cost overruns on the initial Tenke Fungurume project. We and Lundin will be repaid our advances prior to distributions to shareholders of Tenke Fungurume. Accordingly, we will receive a disproportionate share of cash flow until the cost overrun financing and advances are repaid. Molybdenum Our Molybdenum operation is an integrated producer of molybdenum, with mining, sulfide ore concentrating, roasting and processing facilities that produce high purity, molybdenum based chemicals, molybdenum metal powder and metallurgical products, which are sold to customers around the world, and includes the wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities. The Henderson underground mine produces high purity, chemical grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value added molybdenum chemical products. The Molybdenum operation also includes the wholly owned Climax molybdenum mine in Colorado, which has been on care and maintenance status since 1995; a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from our Henderson mine and from our North and South America copper mines that produce molybdenum as a by product; and related conversion facilities that, at times, roast and or process material on a toll basis. Toll arrangements require the tolling customer to deliver appropriate molybdenum bearing material to our facilities for processing into a product that is returned to the customer, who pays us for processing their material into the specified products. In response to market conditions during fourth quarter 2008, we suspended construction activities associated with the project to restart the Climax molybdenum mine, which would have an annual capacity of 30 million pounds with expansion options. We will continue to monitor market conditions to determine timing for restarting construction of this project; once a decision is made to resume construction activities, the project could be completed within 18 months. Estimated remaining costs for the project approximate $350 million. 92 Table of Contents Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the Molybdenum operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. 2009 2008 2007a Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productionb 27 40 39 Sales, excluding purchasesc 58 71 69 Average realized price per pound $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day) 14,900 24,100 24,000 Average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.25 0.23 0.23 Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 27 40 39 a. The Molybdenum operating data for 2007 combines our historical data beginning March 20, 2007, with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data through March 19, 2007. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Reflects production at the Henderson molybdenum mine. c. Includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. Beginning in fourth quarter 2008, molybdenum markets were significantly affected by the downturn in economic conditions, which required us to operate the Henderson molybdenum mine at reduced rates during 2009. However, conditions have begun to improve and as a result Henderson was operating at 80 percent capacity at December 31, 2009, compared with 60 percent capacity during most of 2009. Molybdenum sales volumes decreased to 58 million pounds in 2009, compared with 71 million pounds in 2008, because of lower demand. For 2010, molybdenum sales volumes are expected to approximate 60 million pounds. We will continue to review operating plans and adjust operating rates to reflect market conditions. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of molybdenum is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Molybdenum The following tables summarize the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of molybdenum at our Henderson molybdenum mine for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the period March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2009 2008 2007a Revenues $ 11.69 $ 29.27 $ 27.12 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 5.44 5.36 4.37 Unit net cash costs 5.44 5.36 4.37 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.98 4.25 2.55 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 0.03 0.18 b 0.05 Total unit costs 6.45 9.79 6.97 Gross profit per poundc $ 5.24 $ 19.48 $ 20.15 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)d 27 40 31 93 Table of Contents a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007. b. Includes charges of $0.03 per pound in 2008 associated with LCM inventory adjustments. c. Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum segment includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. d. Reflects molybdenum produced by the Henderson molybdenum mine. Hendersons unit net cash costs were $5.44 per pound of molybdenum in 2009, $5.36 per pound in 2008 and $4.37 per pound in 2007. Hendersons unit net cash costs were unfavorably impacted in 2009 by lower production volumes, partly offset by the impact of cost reduction efforts. Higher costs in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected higher input costs, including outside services, supplies and energy. Assuming achievement of current 2010 sales estimates, we estimate that the 2010 average unit net cash costs for Henderson would approximate $5.50 per pound of molybdenum. The decrease in Hendersons depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, reflects the impact of long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). The increase in Hendersons depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected changes in purchase accounting impacts associated with adjustments to the estimated fair values of acquired property, plant and equipment, which were based on preliminary estimates in 2007 and finalized in first quarter 2008. Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned subsidiary located in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes. PT Freeport Indonesia sells copper concentrate and the South America copper mines sell copper concentrate and copper cathode to Atlantic Copper. Through downstream integration, we are assured placement of a significant portion of our concentrate production. During 2009, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 35 percent of its concentrate requirements from PT Freeport Indonesia and approximately 25 percent from our South America mines. Smelting and refining charges consist of a base rate and, in certain contracts, price participation based on copper prices. Treatment charges for smelting and refining copper concentrates represent a cost to PT Freeport Indonesia and our South America copper mines and income to Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting, our 25 percent owned smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. Thus, higher treatment and refining charges benefit our smelter operations at Atlantic Copper and adversely affect our mining operations in Indonesia and South America. Our North America copper mines are not significantly affected by changes in treatment and refining charges because these operations are fully integrated with our Miami smelter located in Arizona. Atlantic Copper had an operating loss of $56 million in 2009 compared to operating income of $10 million in 2008 and $3 million in 2007. The decrease in Atlantic Coppers operating results during 2009 primarily reflected lower sulphuric acid revenues resulting from lower prices. We defer recognizing profits on PT Freeport Indonesias and our South America copper mines sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias sales to PT Smelting until final sales to third parties occur. Changes in these net deferrals resulted in net reductions to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders totaling $109 million ($0.23 per share) in 2009, compared with net additions of $65 million ($0.17 per share) in 2008 and $8 million ($0.02 per share) in 2007. At December 31, 2009, our net deferred profits on PT Freeport Indonesias and the South America copper mines inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income after taxes and noncontrolling interests totaled $137 million. CURRENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS We have several projects and potential opportunities to expand our production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large scale ore bodies. During fourth quarter 2008, we deferred several project development activities because of the downturn in global economic conditions. Major development projects for 2009 consisted of underground development in the Grasberg minerals district and the Tenke Fungurume project (for which 94 Table of Contents construction activities on the initial project are complete). During fourth quarter 2009, we announced that we are resuming certain project development activities. Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions. North America Copper Mines Miami Restart. During fourth quarter 2009, we initiated plans to restart limited mining activities at the Miami copper mine in Arizona, which will improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site. During the approximate five year mine life, we expect to ramp up production to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by the second half of 2011. The capital investment for this project is expected to approximate $40 million, which is lower that the initial estimate of $100 million because we intend to transfer existing mining equipment from other North America sites, rather than purchasing new equipment. Morenci Mill Restart. We are initiating activities to restart the Morenci mill in Arizona, which was temporarily idled in February 2009 in response to market conditions, to process available sulfide material currently being mined. Copper concentrate production is expected to begin in second quarter 2010, with mill throughput initially expected to approximate 30,000 metric tons per day, or approximately 60 percent of total mill capacity. Twin Buttes. In December 2009, we purchased property adjacent to our Sierrita operations primarily from Twin Buttes Properties, Inc. for $200 million. The property includes the Twin Buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994 and contains mineralized material of approximately 0.7 billion metric tons with average grades of 0.43 percent for copper and 0.024 percent for molybdenum. The purchase provides significant synergies in the Sierrita district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for Sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. We plan to conduct studies to incorporate the Twin Buttes resources in our future plans to determine the optimum development plans for the district. South America Copper Mines El Abra Sulfide Ore. We have resumed construction activities associated with the development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra that will extend the mine life by over ten years. Production from the sulfide ore, which will ramp up to approximately 300 million pounds of copper per year, is expected to begin in 2012 and will replace the current oxide ore copper production that is expected to decline over the next several years. The project will use a portion of the existing facilities to process the additional sulfide ore. The total aggregate capital investment for this project (which has been updated to incorporate recent foreign currency exchange rates and other cost increases) is expected to total $700 million through 2015, of which approximately $500 million is for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in 2012. Aggregate project costs of $75 million have been incurred as of December 31, 2009 (most of which were incurred prior to the end of 2008). Cerro Verde Expansion. We have commenced a project to optimize throughput at the existing Cerro Verde concentrator. This project, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2010, is designed to add 30 million pounds of additional copper production per year by increasing mill throughput from 108,000 metric tons of ore per day to 120,000 metric tons of ore per day. The aggregate capital investment for this project is expected to total approximately $50 million. We continue to study the potential for a major expansion at Cerro Verde. Indonesia We have several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district, including development of the large scale, high grade underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit. In addition, we have completed the feasibility study for the Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ). Based on current estimates, we expect aggregate expenditures for underground mine development in the Grasberg minerals district to average approximately $450 million annually during the next 15 years. These costs will be shared with Rio Tinto in accordance with our joint venture agreement. Considering the long term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates. In addition to the mine development costs above, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once Grasberg open pit operations cease. Substantially all of these expenditures will be made between 2017 and 2029. We continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our reserves. 95 Table of Contents The following discussion provides additional information on these current projects, including the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, the Grasberg Block Cave and Big Gossan underground mines, a further expansion of the DOZ underground mine and development of the DMLZ ore body. Common Infrastructure and Grasberg Block Cave. In 2004, PT Freeport Indonesia commenced its Common Infrastructure project to provide access to its large undeveloped underground ore bodies located in the Grasberg minerals district through a tunnel system located approximately 400 meters deeper than its existing underground tunnel system. In addition to providing access to our underground ore bodies, the tunnel system will enable PT Freeport Indonesia to conduct future exploration in prospective areas associated with currently identified ore bodies. The tunnel system has reached the Big Gossan terminal and we are proceeding with development of the lower Big Gossan infrastructure. We have also advanced development of the Grasberg spur and have completed the tunneling required to reach the Grasberg underground ore body. During 2009, we continued development of the Grasberg Block Cave terminal infrastructure and mine access. In 2008, we completed the feasibility study for the development of the Grasberg Block Cave underground mine, which accounts for over one third of our reserves in Indonesia. Production at the Grasberg Block Cave mine is currently scheduled to commence at the end of mining the Grasberg open pit, which is expected to continue until mid 2016. The timing of the underground Grasberg Block Cave mine development will continue to be assessed. Based on the 2008 feasibility study, aggregate mine development capital for the Grasberg Block Cave mine and associated Common Infrastructure is expected to approximate $3.6 billion to be incurred between 2008 and 2021, with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $3.4 billion. These estimates are higher than the aggregate $3.1 billion previously reported as certain costs previously considered as operating in the feasibility study were determined to be capital costs to conform with our current accounting policies for underground mines. Aggregate project costs totaling $127 million have been incurred through December 31, 2009, of which $83 million was incurred during 2009. Targeted production rates once the Grasberg Block Cave mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 150,000 metric tons of ore per day. Big Gossan. The Big Gossan underground mine is a high grade deposit located near PT Freeport Indonesias existing milling complex. The Big Gossan mine is being developed as an open stope mine with backfill consisting of mill tailings and cement, an established mining methodology expected to be higher cost than the block cave method used at the DOZ mine. Production is designed to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by late 2012 (equal to average annual aggregate incremental production of 125 million pounds of copper and 65,000 ounces of gold, with PT Freeport Indonesia receiving 60 percent of these amounts). The aggregate capital investment for this project is currently estimated at approximately $480 million, of which $377 million has been incurred through December 31, 2009, including $41 million during 2009. DOZ Expansion. In mid 2007, PT Freeport Indonesia completed an expansion of the DOZ underground operation to allow a sustained rate of 50,000 metric tons of ore per day. PT Freeport Indonesias further expansion of the DOZ mine to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day is substantially complete. The capital cost for this expansion approximated $100 million, with PT Freeport Indonesias 60 percent share totaling approximately $60 million. The success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the worlds largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of PT Freeport Indonesias large scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. DMLZ. The DMLZ ore body lies below the DOZ mine at the 2,590 meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the Ertsberg East Skarn system and neighboring Ertsberg porphyry. The DMLZ feasibility study was completed in fourth quarter 2009. We plan to mine the ore body using a block cave method with production beginning in 2020, near completion of mining at the DOZ. Drilling efforts continue to determine the extent of this ore body. We continue to develop the Common Infrastructure project and tunnels from mill level. In 2009, we completed a portion of the spur to the DMLZ mine and reached the edge of the DMLZ terminal. Aggregate mine development capital costs for the DMLZ are expected to approximate $2.1 billion with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $1.2 billion, which are expected to be incurred from 2009 to 2020. Aggregate project costs totaling $25 million have been incurred through December 31, 2009. Targeted production rates once the DMLZ mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. 96 Table of Contents Africa Mining Tenke Fungurume. Construction activities for the approximate $2 billion initial project are complete. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and achieved targeted copper production rates in September 2009. Start up and quality issues continue to be addressed in the cobalt circuit and sustained targeted production rates are expected to be reached during 2010. Current operations are designed to produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year. The initial Tenke Fungurume project was designed and constructed in a world class fashion, using modern technology and following international standards for environmental management, occupational safety and social responsibility. The facilities include impermeable lined tailing storage and waste water treatment ponds, and we have made significant investments in infrastructure in the region, including a national road and improvements in power generation and transmission systems. Our social programs include local micro enterprise businesses, agricultural capacity building initiatives, malaria abatement, potable drinking water wells, new medical facilities and several new schools. The project will continue to provide important benefits to the Congolese through employment and the provision of local services and to the DRC government through substantial tax, royalty and dividend payments. We continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of this highly prospective district. These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion. In our recoverable proven and probable reserve estimates for 2009, we were successful in adding 2.6 billion pounds of copper reserves and 0.08 billion pounds of cobalt reserves. Recoverable proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2009, approximate 135 million metric tons of ore with average grades of 3.13 percent for copper and 0.33 percent for cobalt, which equates to recoverable reserves of 8.4 billion pounds of copper and 0.78 billion pounds of cobalt. We commenced a feasibility study in fourth quarter 2009 to evaluate a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and potentially increasing capacity by approximately 50 percent. The feasibility study is expected to be completed by mid year 2010. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our production levels, production costs, cash payments for income taxes and interest, other working capital changes and other factors. As a result of weak economic conditions, we revised our operating plans at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 to protect liquidity while preserving our large mineral resources and growth options for the longer term (refer to Note 2 for further discussion). However, strong operating performance and rising copper prices have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position during 2009, allowing us to manage volatile conditions effectively, reduce debt and reinstate cash dividends to shareholders, while maintaining our future growth opportunities. In addition, we have announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion). We view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirement for copper in the worlds economy and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. Based on current mine plans and subject to future copper, gold and molybdenum prices, we expect estimated 2010 operating cash flows to be greater than our budgeted capital expenditures, expected debt payments, dividends, noncontrolling interest distributions and other cash requirements. Cash and Cash Equivalents At December 31, 2009, we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $2.7 billion. The following table reflects the U.S. and international components of consolidated cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions): 2009 2008 Cash at domestic companiesa $ 1,522 $ 95 Cash at international operations 1,134 777 Total consolidated cash and cash equivalents 2,656 872 Less: Noncontrolling interests share (300 ) (267 ) Cash, net of noncontrolling interests share 2,356 605 Less: Withholding taxes and other (171 ) (151 ) Net cash available to FCX $ 2,185 $ 454 97 Table of Contents a. Includes cash at our parent company and North America operations. Operating Activities During 2009, we generated operating cash flows totaling $4.4 billion, net of $770 million used for working capital requirements, which included approximately $600 million related to settlement of final pricing with customers on 2008 provisionally priced copper sales. Operating cash flows in 2008 totaled $3.4 billion, net of $965 million used for working capital requirements, which included $598 million to settle the 2007 copper price protection program contract, and operating cash flows in 2007 totaled $6.2 billion, including $1.1 billion from working capital sources. Operating cash flows for 2009 were higher than in 2008 primarily because of lower operating costs and higher gold prices and sales volumes. Operating cash flows for 2008 were lower than in 2007 primarily because of higher operating costs and higher working capital requirements. Consolidated revenues, operating cash flows and net income vary significantly with fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum, sales volumes and other factors. Refer to Overview and Outlook for further discussion of projected 2010 operating cash flows. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $1.6 billion in 2009 (including $1.0 billion for major projects and a property acquisition), $2.7 billion in 2008 (including $1.6 billion for major projects) and $1.8 billion in 2007 (including $0.8 billion for major projects). The decrease in capital expenditures in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the effects of the decision to defer capital spending for several projects, lower capital spending for the initial Tenke Fungurume development project (for which construction activities are complete) and reduced spending for sustaining capital. The increase in capital expenditures in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily reflected higher costs associated with our major development projects. During fourth quarter 2009, we announced initiatives to resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008 (refer to Current Development Projects for further discussion of these projects). Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors. Refer to Overview and Outlook for further discussion of projected 2010 capital expenditures. Other Investing Activities. During 2008, our global reclamation and remediation trusts decreased by $430 million resulting primarily from reimbursement of previously incurred costs for reclamation and environmental activities. On March 19, 2007, we issued 136.9 million shares of common stock and paid $13.9 billion (net of cash acquired) to acquire Phelps Dodge (refer to Note 18 for further discussion). During 2007, we received net proceeds of $597 million associated with the sale of Phelps Dodge International Corporation (PDIC) (refer to Note 19 for further discussion), and also received proceeds totaling $260 million primarily related to sales of marketable securities. Financing Activities Equity and Debt Transactions. In February 2009, we completed a public offering of 26.8 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $28.00 per share, which generated gross proceeds of $750 million (net proceeds of approximately $740 million). Net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facilities, working capital and capital expenditures. In December 2008, through privately negotiated transactions, we induced conversion of 0.3 million shares of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock into 5.8 million shares of FCX common stock. To induce conversion of these shares, we issued to the holders an additional 1.0 million shares of FCX common stock valued at $22 million. In September 2009, we called for the redemption of the remaining 0.8 million shares of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, which converted into 17.9 million shares of FCX common stock; the remaining 1,025 shares were redeemed for approximately $1 million in cash. Refer to Note 12 for further discussion of these transactions. In July 2008, our Board of Directors (the Board) approved an increase in the open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. During third quarter 2008, we purchased 6.3 million shares of our common stock for $500 million ($79.15 per share average) under this program; however, because of financial market turmoil and the declines in copper and molybdenum prices, in September 2008, we suspended purchases of our 98 Table of Contents common stock under the program. There are 23.7 million shares remaining under this program, and the timing of future purchases of our common stock is dependent on many factors, including our operating results; cash flows and financial position; copper, gold and molybdenum prices; the price of our common shares; and general economic and market conditions. At December 31, 2009, we had 430 million common shares outstanding; assuming conversion of our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which automatically converts on May 1, 2010, we would have between 469 and 477 million common shares outstanding, depending on the applicable average market price of our common stock (refer to Note 12 for further discussion). Total debt approximated $6.3 billion at December 31, 2009, $7.4 billion at December 31, 2008, and $7.2 billion at December 31, 2007. We have revolving credit facilities available through March 2012, which are composed of (i) a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility available to FCX and (ii) a $0.5 billion revolving credit facility available to both FCX and PT Freeport Indonesia. Interest on the revolving credit facilities accrues at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.00 percent, subject to an increase or decrease in the interest rate margin based on the credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investor Services. At December 31, 2009, we had no borrowings and $39 million of letters of credit issued under the facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ($961 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). The revolving credit facilities contain restrictions on the amount available for dividend payments, purchases of our common stock and certain debt prepayments (refer to Note 10 for further discussion). However, these restrictions do not apply as long as availability under the revolvers plus domestic cash exceeds $750 million. At December 31, 2009, we had availability under the revolvers plus available domestic cash (as defined by the revolving credit facility) totaling approximately $3.4 billion. In addition, the indenture governing our senior notes used to finance the Phelps Dodge acquisition contains restrictions on incurring debt, making restricted payments and selling assets (refer to Note 10 for further discussion). In April 2008, Standard & Poors Rating Services and Fitch Ratings raised our corporate credit rating and the ratings on our unsecured debt to BBB (investment grade). As a result of the upgrade of our unsecured debt to investment grade, these covenants are currently suspended. However, to the extent the rating is downgraded below investment grade, the covenants would again become effective. During 2009, we repaid $1.0 billion in debt, including $727 million of senior debt at a cost of $768 million, consisting of the August 2009 redemption of 6% Senior Notes and the open market purchases of our 8.25% Senior Notes, our 8.375% Senior Notes and our 8% Senior Notes (refer to Note 10 for further discussion of these transactions). These transactions will result in annual interest cost savings of approximately $56 million. Losses on early extinguishment of debt totaled $48 million ($43 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.09 per share) for 2009. From January 1, 2010, through February 25, 2010, we repaid an additional $269 million of our 8.25% Senior Notes and our 8.375% Senior Notes through open market purchases at a cost of $293 million. Losses on early extinguishment of debt are expected to total $27 million in first quarter 2010 for these 2010 transactions. In February 2008, we purchased, in an open market transaction, $33 million of our 9% Senior Notes for $46 million. As shown in the summary table below, we have no significant debt maturities in the near term; however, we may consider additional opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities or redeem our currently redeemable Senior Floating Rate Notes (in millions). 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Senior notes $ $ 89 $ $ $ $ 6,064 Equipment loans and other 16 4 14 1 1 157 $ 16 $ 93 $ 14 $ 1 $ 1 $ 6,221 March 2007 Acquisition of Phelps Dodge. In connection with financing the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, we used $2.5 billion of available cash (including acquired cash) and funded the remainder with term loan borrowings totaling $10.0 billion under a new $11.5 billion senior credit facility and from the offering of $6.0 billion in senior notes (which generated net proceeds of $5.9 billion). Following the close of the acquisition of Phelps Dodge and in 99 Table of Contents accordance with our plan to reduce debt, during 2007, we fully repaid the $10.0 billion in term loans (including incremental borrowings and payments of approximately $2.5 billion) using a combination of equity proceeds and internally generated cash flows. The equity transactions included the sale of 47.15 million shares of common stock at $61.25 per share for net proceeds of $2.8 billion and 28.75 million shares of 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock for net proceeds of $2.8 billion. In addition to repaying the term loans, we had net repayments of other debt totaling $325 million in 2007. Cash Dividends. The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Board. The amount of our cash dividend on our common stock is dependent upon our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. In December 2007, the Board increased the annual cash dividend on our common stock from $1.25 per share to $1.75 per share, and again in July 2008 to $2.00 per share. Because of the deterioration in copper and molybdenum prices and in general economic conditions, in December 2008, the Board suspended the cash dividend on our common stock; accordingly, there were no common stock dividends paid in 2009, compared with $693 million ($1.8125 per share) in 2008 and $421 million ($1.25 per share) in 2007. In October 2009, the Board reinstated an annual cash dividend on our common stock of $0.60 per share. On December 30, 2009, FCX declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, which was paid on February 1, 2010, to common shareholders of record at the close of business on January 15, 2010. The Board will continue to review our financial policy on an ongoing basis. Preferred stock dividends paid totaled $229 million in 2009, $255 million in 2008 and $175 million in 2007 representing dividends on our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock and 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (refer to Note 12 for further discussion). On December 30, 2009, FCX declared a regular quarterly dividend of $1.6785 per share on our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which was paid on February 1, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on January 15, 2010. On May 1, 2010, our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will automatically convert into between 39 million and 47 million shares of FCX common stock, depending on the applicable average market price of our common stock (refer to Note 12 for further discussion). Cash dividends and distributions paid to noncontrolling interests totaled $535 million in 2009, $730 million in 2008 and $967 million in 2007, reflecting dividends and distributions paid to the noncontrolling interest owners of PT Freeport Indonesia and our South America copper mines. OTHER CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS In addition to debt maturities, we have other contractual obligations, which we expect to fund with projected operating cash flows, availability under our revolving credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. A summary of these various obligations at December 31, 2009, follows (in millions): 2011 to 2013 to Total 2010 2012 2014 Thereafter Scheduled interest payment obligationsa $ 3,669 $ 471 $ 931 $ 927 $ 1,340 Reclamation and environmental obligationsb 4,849 206 312 249 4,082 Take or pay contractsc 2,447 1,390 675 242 140 Operating lease obligations 198 27 47 25 99 Atlantic Copper obligation to insurance companyd 72 10 20 20 22 PT Freeport Indonesia mine closure and reclamation funde 18 1 1 1 15 Total contractual cash obligationsf $ 11,253 $ 2,105 $ 1,986 $ 1,464 $ 5,698 a. Scheduled interest payment obligations were calculated using stated coupon rates for fixed rate debt and interest rates applicable at December 31, 2009, for variable rate debt. b. Represents estimated cash payments, on an undiscounted and unescalated basis, associated with reclamation and environmental activities. The timing and the amount of these payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities and as actual spending occurs. Refer to Note 14 for additional discussion of environmental and reclamation matters. c. Represents contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services that are defined by us as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. Take or pay contracts primarily comprise the procurement of copper concentrates and cathodes ($1.9 billion), transportation ($227 million) and oxygen ($178 million). Some of our take or pay contracts are settled based on the prevailing market rate for the service or commodity purchased, and in some cases, the amount of the actual obligation may change over time because of market conditions. Obligations for copper concentrates and cathodes provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at market based prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper and the North America copper mines. Transportation obligations are primarily for South 100 Table of Contents America contracted ocean freight rates and for North America natural gas transportation. Oxygen obligations provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at fixed prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper. d. In August 2002, Atlantic Copper complied with Spanish legislation by agreeing to fund 7.2 million euros annually for 15 years to an approved insurance company for an estimated 72 million euro contractual obligation to supplement amounts paid to certain retired employees. Atlantic Copper had $58 million recorded for this obligation at December 31, 2009. e. Represents PT Freeport Indonesias commitments to contribute amounts to a cash fund designed to accumulate at least $100 million, including interest, by the end of our Indonesian mining activities to pay for mine closure and reclamation. f. This table excludes certain other obligations in our consolidated balance sheets, including estimated funding for pension obligations as the funding may vary from year to year based on changes in the fair value of plan assets and actuarial assumptions and accrued liabilities totaling $157 million that relate to unrecognized tax benefits where the timing of settlement is not determinable. This table also excludes purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services, as purchase orders typically represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. In addition to our debt maturities and other contractual obligations, we have other commitments, which we expect to fund with projected operating cash flows, available credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. These include (i) PT Freeport Indonesias commitment to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development, (ii) Cerro Verdes local mining fund contributions equal to 3.75 percent of after tax profits, (iii) Tenke Fungurumes commitment to provide 0.3 percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations and (iv) other commercial commitments, including standby letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees (refer to Notes 14 and 15 for further discussion). ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS Environmental The cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. We had $1.5 billion at December 31, 2009, and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2008, recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for environmental obligations attributed to CERCLA or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. Refer to Note 14 for further information about environmental regulation, including significant environmental matters. During 2009, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners shares) of $289 million for programs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations, compared to $377 million in 2008 and $280 million in 2007 (which included $188 million incurred from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, related to the acquired Phelps Dodge operations). The decrease in environmental capital spending for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to completion of large projects in 2008, combined with reduced discretionary spending and extended project timelines. The increase in environmental capital spending for 2008, compared with 2007, primarily related to a full twelve months of Phelps Dodge expenditures in 2008, combined with increased expenditures for accelerated remediation efforts. For 2010, we expect to incur approximately $400 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2010 operating budget. Projected environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs for 2010 include a $40 million payment for settlement of litigation associated with Pinal Creek (refer to Note 14) made in 2010 and increases in discretionary project spending carried over from 2009. Asset Retirement Obligations We recognize AROs as liabilities when incurred, with the initial measurement at fair value. These liabilities, which are initially estimated based on discounted cash flow estimates, are accreted to full value over time through charges to income. Reclamation costs for future disturbances are recorded as an ARO in the period of disturbance. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible, long lived assets. We had recorded AROs totaling $731 million at December 31, 2009, and $712 million at December 31, 2008, in current and long term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. Spending on AROs totaled $28 million in 2009, $91 million in 2008 and $40 million in 2007. The decrease in ARO spending for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to extended project timelines which resulted in reduced required expenditures for 2009. The increase in ARO spending for 2008, compared with 2007, primarily related to a full twelve months of Phelps Dodge expenditures in 2008, combined with increased spending for large projects in 2008. For 2010, we expect to incur approximately $38 million for aggregate ARO payments. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. 101 Table of Contents DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS Commodity Price Risk Our consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, molybdenum, gold and other metals by our North and South America copper mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operation, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Consolidated revenues, operating cash flows and net income vary significantly with fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum, sales volumes and other factors. Based on projected 2010 consolidated sales volumes and assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,100 per ounce of gold and $12 per pound of molybdenum for the year, our consolidated operating cash flows for 2010 would approximate $5.3 billion, net of an estimated $0.4 billion of working capital requirements. Operating cash flows would be impacted by approximately $260 million for each $0.10 per pound change in copper prices, $50 million for each $50 per ounce change in gold prices and $45 million for each $1 per pound change in molybdenum prices. For 2009, more than half of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, approximately 25 percent as cathodes and approximately 21 percent as rod (principally from our North America operations). Substantially all concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME prices. We receive market prices based on prices in the specified future period, which results in price fluctuations recorded through revenues until the date of settlement. We record revenues and invoice customers at the time of shipment based on then current LME prices, which results in an embedded derivative on our provisional priced concentrate and cathode sales that is adjusted to fair value through earnings each period, using the period end forward prices, until the date of final pricing. To the extent final prices are higher or lower than what was recorded on a provisional basis, an increase or decrease to revenues is recorded each reporting period until the date of final pricing. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from higher prices received for contracts priced at current market rates and also from an increase related to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior years; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. At December 31, 2008, we had provisionally priced copper sales totaling 508 million pounds at our copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average of $1.39 per pound. Consolidated revenues for 2009 include net additions for adjustments related to these prior year copper sales of $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share), compared with an increase of $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.30 per share) in 2008 and a decrease of $42 million ($18 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.05 per share) in 2007. At December 31, 2009, we had provisionally priced copper sales totaling 378 million pounds of copper at our copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average price of $3.34 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. We estimate that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the December 31, 2009, provisional price recorded would have a net impact on our 2010 consolidated revenues of approximately $25 million ($12 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders). The LME spot copper price closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. On limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. We do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future. 102 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs and certain assets and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol and euro. Generally, our results are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Following is a summary of estimated annual payments and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs: 10% Change in Exchange Rate per $1 Exchange Rate at December 31, Estimated Annual Payments (in millions)b 2009 2008 2007 (in local currency) (in millions)a Increase Decrease Indonesia Rupiah 9,420 10,850 9,390 2.5 trillion $ 265 $ (24 ) $ 30 Australian dollar 1.12 1.43 1.14 200 million $ 178 $ (16 ) $ 20 South America Chilean peso 506 648 498 250 billion $ 494 $ (45 ) $ 55 Peruvian nuevo sol 2.89 3.17 3.05 250 million $ 87 $ (8 ) $ 10 Atlantic Copper Euro 0.69 0.72 0.68 120 million $ 173 $ (16 ) $ 19 a. Based on December 31, 2009, exchange rates. b. Reflects the estimated impact on annual operating costs assuming a 10 percent increase or decrease in the exchange rate reported at December 31, 2009. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2009, we had total debt of $6.3 billion, of which approximately 19 percent was variable rate debt with interest rates based on LIBOR or the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR). The table below presents average interest rates for our scheduled maturities of principal for our outstanding debt and the related fair values at December 31, 2009 (in millions, except percentages): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ $ 89 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 5,066 $ 5,552 Average interest rate 8.7 % 5.8 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 8.3 % 8.3 % Variable rate debt $ 16 $ 4 $ 13 $ $ $ 1,155 $ 1,183 Average interest rate 1.4 % 2.1 % 1.0 % 4.3 % 4.2 % NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS We do not expect the impact of recently issued accounting standards to have a significant impact on our future financial statements and disclosures. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Refer to Note 15 for information on off balance sheet arrangements. 103 Table of Contents PRODUCT REVENUES AND PRODUCTION COSTS Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. We present gross profit per pound of copper using both a by product method and a co product method. We use the by product method in our presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of our revenues are copper revenues, (ii) we mine ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of our costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals we produce, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by our management and Board of Directors to monitor operations. In the co product method presentation below, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change. In both the by product and the co product method calculations, we show adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, we have reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as LCM inventory adjustments, stock based compensation costs, write offs of equipment or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. Gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by product method. Presentations under both the by product and co product methods are shown below together with reconciliations to amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. 104 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 2,823 $ 2,823 $ 274 $ 45 $ 3,142 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,483 1,364 142 22 1,528 By product creditsa (274 ) Treatment charges 102 100 2 102 Net cash costs 1,311 1,464 142 24 1,630 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 264 251 10 3 264 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 129 127 2 129 Total costs 1,704 1,842 154 27 2,023 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging 92 92 92 Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (100 ) (100 ) (100 ) Gross profit $ 1,111 $ 973 $ 120 $ 18 $ 1,111 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,142 $ 1,528 $ 264 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 129 N/A Treatment charges per above N/A 102 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging per above 92 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 1 152 16 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 c 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 c $ 1,014 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 105 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 4,382 $ 4,382 $ 892 $ 72 $ 5,346 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 2,681 2,326 374 35 2,735 By product creditsa (910 ) Treatment charges 134 130 4 134 Net cash costs 1,905 2,456 374 39 2,869 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 753 664 83 6 753 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 743 c 701 39 3 743 Total costs 3,401 3,821 496 48 4,365 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging (71 ) (71 ) (71 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (85 ) (83 ) (2 ) (85 ) Gross profit $ 825 $ 407 $ 394 $ 24 $ 825 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 5,346 $ 2,735 $ 753 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 743 c N/A Treatment charges per above N/A 134 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging per above (71 ) N/A N/A Eliminations and other (10 ) 96 17 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 d $ 1,782 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. Includes charges totaling $661 million for LCM inventory adjustments. d. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 106 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007a By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenumb Otherc Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,526 $ 3,526 $ 717 $ 47 $ 4,290 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,516 1,296 253 18 1,567 By product creditsb (713 ) Treatment charges 100 98 2 100 Net cash costs 903 1,394 253 20 1,667 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 487 418 67 2 487 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 361 341 4 16 361 Total costs 1,751 2,153 324 38 2,515 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging (203 ) (203 ) (203 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (56 ) (55 ) (1 ) (56 ) Gross profit $ 1,516 $ 1,115 $ 392 $ 9 $ 1,516 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported for the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,290 $ 1,567 $ 487 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 361 N/A Treatment charges per above N/A 100 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales and hedging per above (203 ) N/A N/A Eliminations and other 6 138 12 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 Africa mining 10 2 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 a. Reflects the results of the North America copper mines under FCX management. b. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. c. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. 107 Table of Contents South America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other a Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,768 $ 3,768 $ 167 $ 3,935 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,512 1,429 91 1,520 By product credits (159 ) Treatment charges 206 206 206 Net cash costs 1,559 1,635 91 1,726 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 275 267 8 275 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 28 28 28 Total costs 1,862 1,930 99 2,029 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 109 109 109 Other non inventoriable costs (31 ) (26 ) (5 ) (31 ) Gross profit $ 1,984 $ 1,921 $ 63 $ 1,984 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,935 $ 1,520 $ 275 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 28 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (206 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 109 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 1 15 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 b 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 b $ 1,014 a. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. b. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 108 Table of Contents South America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other a Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,910 $ 3,910 $ 216 $ 4,126 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,711 1,631 102 1,733 By product credits (194 ) Treatment charges 211 211 211 Net cash costs 1,728 1,842 102 1,944 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 508 483 25 508 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 103 b 100 3 103 Total costs 2,339 2,425 130 2,555 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 230 230 230 Other non inventoriable costs (37 ) (34 ) (3 ) (37 ) Gross profit $ 1,764 $ 1,681 $ 83 $ 1,764 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,126 $ 1,733 $ 508 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 103 b N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (211 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 230 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 21 18 3 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 c $ 1,782 a. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. b. Includes charges totaling $10 million for LCM inventory adjustments. c. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 109 Table of Contents South America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007a By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other b Total Revenues, excluding adjustments shown below $ 3,882 $ 3,882 $ 123 $ 4,005 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,078 1,040 52 1,092 By product credits (109 ) Treatment charges 240 239 1 240 Net cash costs 1,209 1,279 53 1,332 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 377 364 13 377 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 171 170 1 171 Total costs 1,757 1,813 67 1,880 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 75 75 75 Other non inventoriable costs (28 ) (27 ) (1 ) (28 ) Gross profit $ 2,172 $ 2,117 $ 55 $ 2,172 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported for the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,005 $ 1,092 $ 377 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 171 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (240 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 75 N/A N/A Eliminations and other 39 14 1 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 Africa mining 10 2 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 a. Reflects the results of the South America copper mines under FCX management. b. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. 110 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 3,708 $ 3,708 $ 2,532 $ 74 $ 6,314 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,468 862 589 17 1,468 Gold and silver credits (2,606 ) Treatment charges 312 183 125 4 312 Royalty on metals 147 86 59 2 147 Net cash costs (679 ) 1,131 773 23 1,927 Depreciation and amortization 275 162 110 3 275 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 37 22 15 37 Total costs (367 ) 1,315 898 26 2,239 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 53 53 53 PT Smelting intercompany profit (54 ) (32 ) (21 ) (1 ) (54 ) Gross profit $ 4,074 $ 2,414 $ 1,613 $ 47 $ 4,074 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 6,314 $ 1,468 $ 275 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 37 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (312 ) N/A N/A Less: Royalty per above (147 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 53 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 a 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 a $ 1,014 a. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 111 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 2,628 $ 2,628 $ 1,025 $ 50 $ 3,703 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,762 1,252 487 23 1,762 Gold and silver credits (1,075 ) Treatment charges 268 190 74 4 268 Royalty on metals 113 80 31 2 113 Net cash costs 1,068 1,522 592 29 2,143 Depreciation and amortization 222 158 61 3 222 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 30 22 8 30 Total costs 1,320 1,702 661 32 2,395 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 90 90 90 PT Smelting intercompany profit 17 12 5 17 Gross profit $ 1,415 $ 1,028 $ 369 $ 18 $ 1,415 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,703 $ 1,762 $ 222 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 30 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (268 ) N/A N/A Less: Royalty per above (113 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 90 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 a $ 1,782 a. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 112 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2007 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, after adjustments shown below $ 3,777 $ 3,777 $ 1,490 $ 48 $ 5,315 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 1,342 954 376 12 1,342 Gold and silver credits (1,538 ) Treatment charges 385 274 108 3 385 Royalty on metals 133 94 38 1 133 Net cash costs 322 1,322 522 16 1,860 Depreciation and amortization 199 141 56 2 199 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 46 33 12 1 46 Total costs 567 1,496 590 19 2,105 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 11 11 11 PT Smelting intercompany profit 13 10 3 13 Gross profit $ 3,234 $ 2,302 $ 903 $ 29 $ 3,234 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 5,315 $ 1,342 $ 199 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 46 N/A Less: Treatment charges per above (385 ) N/A N/A Less: Royalty per above (133 ) N/A N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales per above 11 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 Africa mining 10 2 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 113 Table of Contents Henderson Molybdenum Mine Product Revenues and Production Costs Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 a Revenues $ 317 $ 1,182 $ 853 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and nonrecurring costs shown below 148 216 137 Net cash costs 148 216 137 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 26 172 80 Noncash and nonrecurring costs, net 1 7 b 2 Total costs 175 395 219 Gross profitc $ 142 $ 787 $ 634 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Production Depreciation, (In millions) and Depletion and Revenues Delivery Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2009 Totals presented above $ 317 $ 148 $ 26 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 1 N/A Henderson mine 317 149 26 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsd 530 511 e 23 Molybdenum 847 660 49 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America copper mines 3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 e $ 1,014 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Totals presented above $ 1,182 $ 216 $ 172 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 7 b N/A Henderson mine 1,182 223 172 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsd 1,306 1,406 e 20 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America copper mines 4,166 1,854 511 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 f $ 1,782 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Totals presented above $ 853 $ 137 $ 80 Net noncash and nonrecurring costs per above N/A 2 N/A Henderson mine 853 139 80 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsd 893 1,148 14 Molybdenum 1,746 1,287 94 North America copper mines 4,093 2,166 499 South America copper mines 3,879 1,277 378 Indonesia mining 4,808 1,388 199 Africa mining 10 2 Rod & Refining 5,140 5,119 7 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,388 2,329 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,115 ) (5,049 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 16,939 $ 8,527 $ 1,246 a. Reflects the period from March 20, 2007, through December 31, 2007, which represents the results of the Henderson molybdenum mine under FCX management. 114 Table of Contents b. Includes charges totaling $1 million for LCM inventory adjustments. c. Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum segment includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. d. Primarily includes amounts associated with the molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. e. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million in 2009 and $100 million in 2008. f. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Our discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future. Forward looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, production and sales volumes, unit net cash costs, operating cash flows, capital expenditures, mine production and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, anticipated environmental reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, reserve estimates, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, potential prepayments of debt and future dividend payments. Our discussion and analysis also includes forward looking statements regarding mineralized material not included in reserves. The mineralized material described in our discussion and analysis will not qualify as reserves until comprehensive engineering studies establish their economic feasibility. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineralized material not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves. Accuracy of the forward looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments. We caution readers that we assume no obligation to update the forward looking statements in this discussion and analysis and we do not intend to update the forward looking statements more frequently than quarterly. Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from results anticipated by forward looking statements include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, potential outcomes of the contract review process in the Democratic Republic of Congo, weather related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 115 Table of Contents 
 
