Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). An extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could (1) adversely affect our financial results, (2) adversely affect our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and (3) depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. Substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final pricing in a specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) monthly average spot prices. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from higher prices received for contracts priced at current market rates and also from an increase related to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods. However, in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. There continues to be uncertainty in the global economy, which could negatively affect the market prices of commodities, including the metals that we produce. If market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. We may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses. Copper prices have fluctuated historically, with LME spot copper prices ranging from $1.26 to $4.42 per pound during the three years ended December 31, 2010. The LME spot copper price closed at $4.50 per pound on February 11, 2011. Copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: The strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world; Available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories; Sales by holders and producers of copper; Demand for industrial products containing copper; Investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity; The availability and cost of substitute materials; and 40 Table of Contents Currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar. Gold prices have also fluctuated historically, with London gold prices ranging from $713 to $1,421 per ounce for the three years ended December 31, 2010. London gold prices closed at $1,364 per ounce on February 11, 2011. Gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: The strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China; Global or regional political or economic crises; The relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar and other currencies; Expectations with respect to the rate of inflation; Interest rates; Purchases and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other holders; Demand for jewelry containing gold; and Investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity. Molybdenum prices also fluctuate, with the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price ranging from $7.83 to $33.88 per pound for the three years ended December 31, 2010. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price was $17.58 per pound on February 11, 2011. Molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: The worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply; Rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel; The volume of molybdenum produced as a by product of copper production; Inventory levels; Currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar; and Production costs of U.S. and foreign competitors. Under U.S. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we generally are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent state regulations. The failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. We generally are required by U.S. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. These laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance. EPA and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under CERCLA or equivalent state regulations. In July 2009, EPA published a Priority Notice of Action identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements 41 Table of Contents concerning the degree and duration of risk associated with the production, transportation, treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous substances. It is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations. As of December 31, 2010, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs totaled approximately $793 million, of which approximately $482 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. Our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on our ability to meet financial tests. Certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state approved ratings service. We are currently rated investment grade by Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P), Fitch Ratings and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys). If we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject t o these more rigorous tests, in which case the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. Depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. Issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. Failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. As of December 31, 2010, we had limited financial assurance obligations associated with CERCLA related remediation obligations, although EPA and certain states are currently considering increasing the use of financial assurance requirements for such obligations. For additional information, see the environmental risk factor Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations below. The agreements governing our indebtedness require us to meet certain financial tests and other covenants and as a result may limit our flexibility in the operation of our business and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. At December 31, 2010, the outstanding principal amount of our debt was $4.8 billion. The agreements governing our indebtedness restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability to: Incur additional indebtedness; Engage in transactions with affiliates; Create liens on our assets; Make payments in respect of equity issued by us or our subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on our common stock; Make investments in, or loans, to entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; Sell assets; Merge with or into other companies; Enter into sale and leaseback transactions; Enter into unrelated businesses; Enter into agreements or arrangements that restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other distributions; Prepay indebtedness; and Enter into hedging transactions other than in the ordinary course of business. Because the ratings on our senior notes are investment grade, the restrictions contained in our 8.375% and 8.25% Senior Notes on incurring debt, making restricted payments and selling assets are currently suspended. To the extent the rating is downgraded below investment grade by both S&P and Moodys, the covenants would again become effective. Our revolving credit facilities contain restrictions on the amount available for dividend 42 Table of Contents payments, purchases of our common stock and certain debt prepayments. However, these restrictions do not apply as long as availability under the revolvers plus domestic cash exceeds $750 million. At December 31, 2010, we had availability under the revolvers plus available domestic cash (as defined by the revolving credit facilities) of approximately $4.1 billion. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion. In addition, our revolving credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests at any time that borrowings are outstanding under these facilities, including a leverage ratio test (Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 5.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter) and a secured leverage ratio test (Total Secured Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 3.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter). During periods in which copper, gold or molybdenum prices or production volumes, or other conditions reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors, we may not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants. Our obligations under our revolving credit facilities are (1) guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (2) secured by a pledge of (a) 100 percent of the equity in substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (b) 66.5 percent of the equity in substantially all of our first tier foreign subsidiaries. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our revolving credit facilities, senior notes or any agreement governing our other indebtedness, after giving effect to any applicable grace period, may result in an event of default. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which may trigger cross acceleration or cross default provisions in other debt agreements. We would not be able to fully repay when due borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit agreements at maturity or in the event of a default, the lenders under our revolving credit facilities could terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding (together with accrued interest and other fees) immediately due and payable and institute foreclosure proceedings against the collateral. Any such actions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Movements in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results. The functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol and euro. Generally, our results are adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs. From time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange. However, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. Operational risks Our business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. Mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. These operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following: Earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; The occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; The failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; 43 Table of Contents Accidents; Wall failures and rock slides in our open pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; Problems associated with the construction and management of large impoundments containing tailings or other viscous or semi solid materials, some of which also contain mineral and chemical contaminants, such as structural failures or leakages; Interruption of energy supply; Lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; Metallurgical and other processing problems; Unanticipated ground and water conditions; Adverse claims to water rights and shortages of water to which we have rights; Adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; Delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government permits; Delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; Labor disputes; and The inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. The failure to adequately manage some of these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both on and outside our operating sites, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in production. Our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. Our operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Our operations in North and South America are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines depends on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims. At our North America operations, under state law our water rights give us only the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. In Arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the State of Arizona has been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the states largest river systems that affect four of our operating mines (Morenci, Sierrita, Mia mi and Safford). The legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our Arizona mine at Bagdad. Groundwater is not subject to adjudication in Arizona, but is subject to the doctrine of reasonable use, however, wells may be subject to adjudication to the extent they are found to produce or affect surface water. In Colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the Climax mine. Our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated in New Mexico. Water for our Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations is drawn from the Copiap River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, studies have been ongoing to assess available supply for these operations. Based on these studies, we have begun to develop replacement supplies from renewable sources. We recently completed construction of a pipeline to convey reclaimed water from a nearby waste water treatment facility to our Candelaria mine. We have also started engineering for the construction of a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater and a pipeline to convey the water to Candelaria. The plant is expected to be completed by the end of 2012. Water for our El Abra mining operations comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de 44 Table of Contents Ascotn. In 2010, we obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn for the Sulfolix processing plant, which will begin operations in 2011. Failure to meet the specified conditions could adversely affect the Sulfolix processing plant. A change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our Sulfolix ground water pumping, which is permitted through 2021. El Abra is also conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. Water for our Cerro Verde mining operations comes from a series of storage reservoirs in the Rio Chili watershed that collect runoff from seasonal precipitation. Our Cerro Verde mining operations recently constructed new water reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed to obtain additional water rights and to expand storage capacity in the watershed. Due to occasional drought and possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our operations as currently planned. Cerro Verde is conducting water studies to assess opportunities for additional supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. Although each operation has sufficient water rights and claims to cover current operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. The loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or close mining production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. Increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. Energy represents approximately 20 percent of our production costs. An inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. Our production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, explosives and diluents. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. Increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. Our Grasberg mining operations are located in steep mountainous terrain in a very remote area in Indonesia. Because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. In October 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the Grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. In December 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. The events caused us to alter our short term mine sequencing plans, which adversely affected our 2003 and 2004 production. We resumed normal production activities in second quarter 2004. In March 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting PT Freeport Indonesias mining facilities. Three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. The material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. As a result of investigations by PT Freeport Indonesia and the Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. The existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. In September 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our Grasberg open pit. There were no injuries or property damage. The event caused a delay in our access to the high grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half 45 Table of Contents of 2008 was deferred to future periods. No assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. Our Africa mining operation, Tenke Fungurume, involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Our Tenke Fungurume mining operation is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to additional challenges, including: Severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; Limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; Challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; Security risks; and Limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria and cholera. For example, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from our Tenke Fungurume mining operation approximately 1,900 miles to ports in South Africa. The Tenke Fungurume mining operation and future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. An interruption of energy supply could adversely affect our mining operations. Our mining operations and development projects require significant energy, principally electricity, diesel, coal and natural gas. Our South America mining operations receive electrical power under long term contracts with local energy companies. Our Africa mining operation has entered into long term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with the state owned electric utility company serving the Katanga province of the DRC. A disruption in the transmission of energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure, or the termination of any of our energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect our operations. The volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. Our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with established mining industry practices and standards, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be recovered economically and legally based on currently available data. Estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are subject to considerable uncertainty. Ore bodies may not conform to standard geological expectations, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. Because ore bodies do not contain uniform grades and types of minerals, our metal recovery rates will vary from time to time. Additionally, because the determination of reserves is based partially on estimates of future selling prices, a sustained decrease in such prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. These factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. There are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from stockpiles. The quantity of copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. The volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and recovered copper from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. During fourth quarter 2010, revised recovery rate estimates at El Abra resulted in a reduction of 163 million pounds in leach stockpiles. 46 Table of Contents We must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. Our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long term viability. Produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. Exploration is highly speculative in nature. Our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. Development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects, including the development of underground mines in the Grasberg minerals district and our development of a large sulfide deposit at our El Abra mine. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. Moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. Thus it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. New development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. These development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. It is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in capital expenditures. The development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following: Unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; Challenges related to hiring and training the personnel required for the ramp up in underground mining activities; Larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and Unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods. Some of these risks could result in a delay to production start up and a loss or reduction in minable tons. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Environmental risks Our domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs. Our ongoing mining operations and exploration activities, both in the U.S. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic 47 Table of Contents substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs and we expect these costs to continue to increase in the future because of increased regulatory enforcement, increased demand for remediation services and shortages of equipment, supplies, labor and other factors. The Federal Clean Air Act has had a significant impact, particularly on our domestic smelter and power plants. Any change in waste management regulation of the mining industry under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act could have a significant impact, both on operational compliance and closure costs. In addition, environmental laws and regulations may change in ways that could substantially increase compliance costs or adversely affect our operations or expansion opportunities. In addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. Freeport McMoRan Corporation (FMC, formerly Phelps Dodge), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the U.S. for more than a century. Activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before American industrial companies understood the long term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. With the passage of CERCLA in 1980, companies like FMC became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. That liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. As a result, because of our acquisition of FMC in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the U.S., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. We are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. At December 31, 2010, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the U.S. in 27 states. We incurred aggregate environmental capital expenditure and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations of $372 million in 2010, $289 million in 2009 and $377 million in 2008. The increase in environmental capital spending for 2010, compared with 2009, primarily related to settlement of legal proceedings (refer to Note 13 for further discussion). For 2011, we expect to incur approximately $460 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2011 operating budget and primarily relates to ongoing environmental compliance. At December 31, 2010, $1.4 billion of environmental obligations were recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. Our environmental obligation estimates are based upon (1) our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago, (2) our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake the estimated costs of those activities, which are subject to varying interpretations, and (3) our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. Significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. The actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. Refer to Note 13 for more information on our environmental obligations. An adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us. As described in Note 13 and Item 3. Legal Proceedings, we are a defendant in numerous and in some cases significant litigation involving environmental cleanup costs, alleged environmental toxic torts and interpretations of environmental regulations. An adverse ruling in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 48 Table of Contents Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. Our domestic operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined land reclamation obligations. These requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. In general, our domestic mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. It is uncertain how potential EPA requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. In addition, our international mines are subject to various mine closure and mined land reclamation laws, and there have recently been significant changes in closure and reclamation programs in both Peru and Chile that impose more stringent obligations on us for closure and reclamation. At December 31, 2010, our asset retirement obligations (AROs), determined as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. totaled $856 million (including $405 million for our New Mexico operations, $214 million for our Arizona operations and $129 million for PT Freeport Indonesia). ARO cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure or financial assurance regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, mine plans, cost of inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. Many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and therefore potentially to climate change. In 2010, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately 10 million metric tons, divided between direct (56 percent) and indirect (44 percent) emissions. Most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. Indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. Approximately 64 percent of our direct emissions are in Indonesia, 21 percent in North America and 10 percent in South America. Approximately 56 percent of our indirect emiss ions are in North America and 42 percent in South America. A number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes regarding greenhouse gas emissions, although several of these regulatory changes are being challenged at both the federal and state levels. For example, in the U.S., the EPA issued final regulations in September 2009 requiring mandatory monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in specified circumstances, commencing in 2010. Our Miami smelter and El Paso refinery are required to report their emissions under this program. In June 2010, the EPA issued final regulations under the Clean Air Act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources of greenhouse gases and major modifications to large stationary sources of greenhouse gases. The Miami smelter is our only operation directly affected by these regulations. However, these regul ations in conjunction with upcoming EPA regulations for large fossil fuel fired power plants may result in increased energy costs at our operations. Several states have also initiated action on their own or as part of regional organizations, such as the Western Climate Initiative, to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. New Mexico has promulgated regulations to control greenhouse gas emissions from large sources and to join the Western Climate Initiative. These actions will likely impact our New Mexico operations through increased energy costs. The U.S. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our U.S. operations. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the Protocol. Although the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012, has not been ratified by the U.S., the U.S. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to a n agreement in the future. Since 2006, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. In 2009, we formed a multi departmental greenhouse gas task force. Under the direction of this task force, we actively pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including evaluating 49 Table of Contents potential reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from our haul trucks. However, as a result of possible increases in production rates and longer and steeper haul profiles for the next several years, we also expect increases in our total greenhouse gas emissions. From a medium and long term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase, if they incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Our operating, inactive and historical U.S. mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations. A number of federal and state agencies are considering new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. For example, the EPA could promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (TENORM) and their impacts at mining operations. In addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. Radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations. Consequently, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation . The impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain. Our Indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. Mining operations on the scale of our operations in Papua involve significant environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper , gold and silver bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the Government of Indonesia, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. Lateral levees have been engineered and constructed to limit and help contain the footprint of tailings impact in the lowlands. Another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process in order to reach the ore. In the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can have a negative impact on the environment. Certain Indonesian governmental officials have from time to time raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. Because our mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. In connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the Indonesian government, we committed to perform a one time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. We completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the Indonesian government in December 2002. We developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included 50 Table of Contents representatives from the Indonesian government, academia and non governmental organizations. The risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. Since 2005, PT Freeport Indonesia has participated in the Government of Indonesias PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating) program. In November 2010, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment announced the latest results of its PROPER environmental management audit, and gave PT Freeport Indonesia a Blue rating acknowledging PT Freeport Indonesias environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in Indonesia and also making several recommendations for improvement. International risks Our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. We are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the U.S. We conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Peru, Chile and the DRC. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries. Such risks include (1) renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, (2) expropriation or nationalization of property, (3) changes in a foreign countrys laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, (4) political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, (5) foreign exchange controls, and (6) the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. Our insurance does not cover most losses caused by these risks. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the U.S. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. In October 2010, PT Freeport Indonesia received from the Indonesian tax authorities an assessment for additional taxes approximating $106 million and interest approximating $52 million related to various audit exceptions for 2005. PT Freeport Indonesia has filed objections to these assessments because it believes that it has properly paid taxes for the year 2005 and is working with the Indonesian tax authorities to resolve this matter. In December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia was notified by the Large Taxpayers Office of the Government of Indonesia that PT Freeport Indonesia is obligated to pay value added taxes on certain goods imported after the year 2000. The amount of taxes and penalties would be significant. PT Freeport Indonesia believes that pursuant to the terms of its Contract of Work, it is only required to pay value added taxes on these types of goods imported after December 30, 2009. PT Freeport Indonesia has not received an assessment and is working with the applicable government authorities to resolve this matter. In December 2008, Cerro Verde was notified by SUNAT, the Peruvian national tax authority, of its intent to assess mining royalties related to the minerals processed by the Cerro Verde concentrator, which was added to Cerro Verdes processing facilities in late 2006. In August 2009, Cerro Verde received an assessment approximating $34 million in connection with its alleged obligations for mining royalties and penalties for the period from October 2006 to December 2007. In April 2010, SUNAT issued a ruling denying Cerro Verdes protest of the assessment, and in May 2010, Cerro Verde appealed this decision to the Tax Court. Cerro Verde has also received an assessment approximating $41 million in mining royalties and penalties for the year 2008. In February 2011, SUNAT issued a ruling denying Cerro Verdes protest of the ass essment for the year 2008, and Cerro Verde is in the process of appealing this decision to the Tax Court. Cerro Verde has also received a request for information for mining royalties covering the year 2009. SUNAT may continue to assess mining royalties annually until this matter is resolved by the Tax Court. Cerro Verde is challenging these royalties because its stability agreement with the Peruvian government exempts from royalties all minerals extracted from its mining concession, irrespective of the method used for processing those minerals. If Cerro Verde is ultimately found responsible for these royalties, it will also be liable for interest, which accrues at rates that range from 7 to 18 percent based on the year accrued and the currency in which the amounts would be payable. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate amount of the October 2006 to December 2007 assessment with interest approximated $57 million, and the aggregate amount of the 2008 assessment with interest approximated $61 million. These am ounts will continue to increase at varying interest rates. 51 Table of Contents Because our Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties. Indonesia has faced political, economic and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. In particular, several separatist groups are opposing Indonesian rule over the province of Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. In response, Indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective January 1, 2001. The manner in which the new laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social, economic and political instability in Papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. Maintaining a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among Indonesias most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a Contract of Work with the Indonesian government. Partially because of their significance to Indonesias economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the Indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. Between July 2009 and January 2010 there were a series of shooting incidents along the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex. In connection with these incidents, there were three fatalities (including one PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian government responded with additional security forces and expressed a strong commitment to protect the safety of the community and of our operations. PT Freeport Indonesia operated at reduced mining and milling rates during a four day period in April 2007, as a result of peaceful protests by certain workers regarding benefits. The protests ended with an agreement on a framework for minimum wages for workers and PT Freeport Indonesia returned to normal operations. The impacts to production were not significant. Illegal miners have continued to operate along the river designated to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in PT Freeport Indonesias government approved tailings management area. The illegal miners who have trespassed from time to time in the area of our facilities have clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. In 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the Grasberg mine and mill in protest, and PT Freeport Indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. We cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt our Indonesian operations, or whether similar incidents may occur in other countries that could affect our other operations. If additional protests or other disruptive incidents occur at any of our facilities, they could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. We do not expect to mine all of our Indonesian ore reserves before the initial term of our Contract of Work in Indonesia expires. All of our Indonesian proven and probable ore reserves, including the Grasberg deposit, are located in Block A, and the initial term of our Contract of Work covering these ore reserves expires at the end of 2021. We can extend this term for two successive 10 year periods, subject to the approval of the Indonesian government, which cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Our ore reserves reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 (i.e., through the expiration of the two 10 year extensions) and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10 year extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the current term of our Contract of Work, and there can be no assurance that the Indonesian government will approv e the extensions. Prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 32 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at December 31, 2010, representing 38 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias share of recoverable copper reserves and 51 percent of its share of 52 Table of Contents recoverable gold reserves. In 2008, Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia. In 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2008 mining law and certain provisions address existing contracts of work. The regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to any extension periods of contracts of work even though our Contract of Work provides for two 10 year extension periods under the existing terms of the Contract of Work. Our Contracts of Work in Indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work and other Contracts of Work in which we have an interest were entered into under Indonesias 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. Our Contracts of Work can be terminated by the Government of Indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. Certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our Contract of Work. Although our Contract of Work grants to PT Freeport Indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the Contract of Work, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on PT Freeport Indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements. At times, certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the Government of Indonesia prior to May 1998 (i.e., during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work, which was signed in December 1991. We cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the Contracts of Work will not be challenged for political or other reasons. PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work and our other Contracts of Work require that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. Consequently, if a dispute arises under the Contracts of Work, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute , we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory. Indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with Indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the Contracts of Work. In 2006, the Government of Indonesia created a joint team for Periodic Evaluation on Implementation of the PT FI Contract of Work to conduct an evaluation every five years. The team consists of five working groups, whose members are from relevant ministries or agencies, covering production, state revenues, community development, environmental issues and security issues. We have conducted numerous meetings with these groups. The joint team has indicated that it will issue a report. While we believe that we comply with PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work in all material respects, we cannot provide assurance that the report will s upport that conclusion. Separately, the Indonesian House of Representatives created a working committee on PT Freeport Indonesia. Members of this group have also visited our operations and held a number of hearings in Jakarta. We will continue to work with these groups to respond to their questions about our operations and our compliance with PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work. Any suspension of required activities under our Contracts of Work requires the consent of the Indonesian government. Our Contracts of Work permit us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the Indonesian government. These requests are subject to the approval of the Indonesian government and are renewable annually. If we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the Contract of Work or potentially be declared in default. Moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the Indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the Contract of Work. 53 Table of Contents We suspended our field exploration activities outside of Block A in recent years because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an Indonesian Forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open pit mining in forest preservation areas. In 2001, we requested and received from the Government of Indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the Contracts of Work in all areas outside of Block A. Recent Indonesian legislation permits open pit mining in PT Freeport Indonesias Block B area, subject to certain requirements. Following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective Contract of Work areas outside of Block A. Our Tenke Fungurume mining operation is located in the Katanga province of the DRC, and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the DRC. During 2009, we completed construction activities for the initial Tenke Fungurume development project, which is located in the DRC. Since gaining independence in 1960, the DRC has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. As part of a review of all mining contracts by the Ministry of Mines (Ministry) in the DRC, in February 2008, we received notification that the Ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L.s (TFM) mining concessions. In October 2010, the government of the DRC an nounced the conclusion of the review of TFMs mining contracts. The conclusion of the review process confirmed that TFMs existing mining contracts are in good standing and acknowledged the rights and benefits granted under those contracts. In connection with the review, TFM made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts (refer to Note 14 for further discussion). In December 2010, the addenda to TFMs Amended and Restated Mining Convention and Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement were signed by the parties and are pending a Presidential Decree. TFMs existing mining contracts will be in effect until a Presidential Decree is obtained. After giving effect to the amendments and obtaining approval of the modification to TFMs bylaws, our effective ownership interest in the project will be 56.0 percent, compared to our current ownership interest of 57.75 percent. In July 2009, TFM was advised that the Minister of Justice in the DRC authorized an inquiry regarding the alleged misappropriation of public funds in connection with the securing of labor and immigration authorizations and the payment of associated fees for the Tenke Fungurume project. Several government officials and three TFM employees were arrested. In October 2009, the three TFM employees were tried and acquitted. One government official, the head of immigration in the Katanga province, was sentenced to five years imprisonment on charges of embezzlement. The office of the Attorney General of the DRC filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, and the matter is pending at the Appellate Court. In July 2009, TFM entered into a settlement agreement with DRC tax authorities in connection with an administrative audit regarding the payment of fees for work permits and visas for its foreign workers and subcontractors, including short term workers. Pursuant to the agreement, which covers the period from January 2007 to the date of the settlement, TFM paid approximately $16 million in fees and penalties. The procedures associated with obtaining labor and immigration authorizations for short term workers on a timely basis are not clearly established in the DRC, and TFM continues to work proactively and cooperatively with the government authorities to establish approved procedures for doing so consistent with its mining convention and local law. In connection with this matter, we notified the U.S. government enforcement authorities about our internal investigation of the immigration work permit and visa matter and the associated criminal case. We have received and responded to requests from U.S. government authorities related to the matter and to other requests for information about our compliance program. Other political, economic and social risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include: Political risks associated with the relatively recent establishment of the present government and the upcoming presidential election scheduled for November 2011; Cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government; 54 Table of Contents Legal and regulatory uncertainties, governmental corruption and bribery; Royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; Security risks due to the remote location in the southern DRC and violence in the northeastern provinces of the DRC; Risk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; and Risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. Consequently, our Tenke Fungurume mining operations and future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. In July 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the JW Marriott and Ritz Carlton hotels in Jakarta, Indonesia, that are reported to have killed nine people and injured 53 others. Two of our Indonesian based executives were injured in the incident. In July 2009, a small group of individuals created a disturbance on the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg mining complex and vandalized vehicles and small buildings. There were no injuries. For more information about a series of shooting incidents near our Grasberg mining complex, see the risk factor Because our Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by Indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties above. In August 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near Tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of PT Freeport Indonesias personnel reside. The assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in Tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to PT Freeport Indonesia. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigated the incident, which resulted in the U.S. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the Free Papua Movement/National Freedom Force. In January 2006, Indonesian police, accompanied by FBI agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other Papuans. In November 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the August 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack. In October 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the Indonesian province of Bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. Indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. In August, 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia. In September 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. In October 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in Bali. The same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. In November 2005, Indonesian police raided a house in East Java that resulted in the death of other accused terr orists linked to the bombings discussed above. Our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but PT Freeport Indonesias corporate office in Jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the Australian embassy. In addition to the Bali, JW Marriott Hotel and Australian embassy bombings, there have been anti American demonstrations in certain sections of Indonesia reportedly led by radical Islamic activists. No assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. If there were to be additional violence, it could materially and adversely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict at this time. 55 Table of Contents Other risks If market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long lived assets may be further impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the then current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long lived assets and goodwill for impairment. As a result, we recorded impairment charges totaling $16.9 billion ($12.6 billion to net loss attributable to common stockholders). Refer to Note 17 for further discussion. The declines in copper and molybdenum prices in late 2008 also resulted in lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory charges totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to common stockholders) in 2008. Additional LCM charges associated with molybdenum inventories totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to common stockholders) were recorded in first quarter 2009. We recorded no further LCM inventory adjustments subsequent to first quarter 2009. Declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, could cause us to record additional LCM inventory adjustments and could also result in an additional write down of the carrying value of long lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. Unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are a party to the litigation described in Note 13 and in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at Superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. If any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on o ur operating results and financial condition. We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our future projects. A loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. In addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the U.S. In addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries creditors, including any trade creditors. 56 Table of Contents Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. These provisions: Authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; Establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; Limit removal of directors for cause only; Limit who may call stockholder meetings; and Require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. These provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by Phelps Dodge and its affiliates. We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings by government agencies regarding our business, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Litigation Blackwell, Oklahoma Litigation. On April 14, 2008, a purported class action was filed against us and several of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Blackwell Zinc Company, Inc. (BZC) (Coffey, et al., v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc., et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2008 68). This suit alleges that the operations of BZCs zinc smelter in Blackwell, Oklahoma, from 1918 to 1974 resulted in contamination of soils and groundwater in Blackwell and the surrounding area. The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages on behalf of the putative class members, consisting of current and former residents and property owners, for alleged dimi nution in property values. Plaintiffs also requested an order compelling remediation of allegedly contaminated properties and the establishment of a monetary fund to pay for monitoring the present and future health of the putative class members. On February 2, 2010, the court granted our motion to dismiss the plaintiffs medical monitoring claims and the court denied plaintiffs request for reconsideration at a hearing on May 6, 2010. Discovery and briefing on class certification are near completion. 57 Table of Contents On December 7, 2009, 18 individuals filed a related suit (Brown et al. v. Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., et al., Kay County, Oklahoma District Court, Case No. CJ 2009 213), alleging personal injuries resulting from exposure to lead and seeking compensatory and punitive damages. In March, 2010, the case was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma in Oklahoma City (CIV 10 295 HE). On July 23, 2010, the federal district court denied plaintiffs request to remand the suit to state court. We intend to defend both of these matters vigorously and no estimates can be made for ranges of losses that are reasonably possible with respect to these two cases. Refer to Note 13 for more information about our remediation activities in Blackwell, Oklahoma. Environmental Proceedings Newtown Creek. From the 1930s until 1964, Phelps Dodge Refining Corporation (PDRC), a subsidiary of Freeport McMoRan Corporation, operated a smelter, and from the 1930s until 1984 it operated a refinery, on the banks of Newtown Creek, which is a 3.5 mile long waterway that forms part of the boundary between Brooklyn and Queens in New York City. Heavy industrialization along the banks of Newtown Creek and discharges from the City of New Yorks sewer system over more than a century resulted in significant environmental contamination of the waterway. The New York Attorney General previously notified several companies, including PDRC, about possible obligations to clean up sediments in Newtown Creek. In March and April 2010, the U.S. Environmental Protect ion Agency (EPA) notified PDRC and five others that EPA considers them to be potentially responsible parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). The notified parties began working with EPA to identify other potentially responsible parties, and EPA proposed that the notified parties perform a Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study (RI/FS) at their expense and reimburse EPA for its oversight costs. EPA is not expected to propose a remedy until after an RI/FS is completed, which is expected to take several years. On September 29, 2010, EPA designated Newtown Creek as a Superfund site. The cost of remediating Newtown Creek could be significant, and depending on what portion of that cost is allocated to PDRC, that share could be material to us. Gilt Edge Mine Site. On July 12, 2010, we were notified by the U.S. Department of Justice, acting at the request of EPA, that the U.S. was preparing to file suit in federal court against two of our wholly owned subsidiaries (Cyprus Mines Corporation and Cyprus Amax Minerals Company, Inc.) and several other parties to recover costs incurred or to be incurred by the U.S. in responding to the release or threatened release of hazardous substances at the Gilt Edge Mine Site in Lawrence County, South Dakota. The letter stated that the U.S. wou ld assert that the Cyprus entities are jointly and severally liable with the other parties for all response costs incurred by the U.S. at this site under CERCLA. The letter asserted that the U.S. had incurred approximately $91 million in response costs and expected to incur significant additional response costs in the future. We do not know whether the other parties could contribute materially to reimbursement of these response costs. We have conducted a detailed investigation of this site and have concluded that the Cyprus entities were engaged only in exploration at the site and were not involved in the large scale mining operation that left the site in its current condition. We believe there is a reasonable basis for apportioning the response costs based on historical records of activities at the site, so that the liability of the Cyprus entities should be proportional to the actual harm done, rather than joint and several, as the government asserts. We are engaged in discussions with the U.S. and we intend to vigorously defend this matter if the government files suit. Arizona Department of Environmental Quality Morenci. In October 2008, Freeport McMoRan Morenci Inc. (Morenci) notified state and federal authorities that it accidentally released electrolyte solution from its solution extraction and electrowinning (SX/EW) operation into Lower Chase Creek, an ephemeral stream that is normally dry. Morenci conducted a thorough cleanup of the spill and later provided authorities with information on corrective actions implemented in response to the spill. On January 16, 2009, Morenci received Notices of Violation (NOVs) from the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality alleging that the spill resulted in violations of the Arizona Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and Aquifer Protection Programs. Morenci also received a letter dated January 28, 2010, from the Arizona Attorney Generals office advising Morenci that the state of Arizona intends to file a civil enforcement action. Morenci has met with the Arizona Attorney Generals office to discuss a potential settlement and expects to reach an agreement that includes payment of a civil penalty, which may exceed $100,000. 58 Table of Contents Asbestos Claims Since approximately 1990, Phelps Dodge and various subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a large number of lawsuits that claim personal injury from exposure to asbestos allegedly contained in electrical wire products produced or marketed many years ago, either from asbestos contained in buildings and facilities located at properties owned or operated by Phelps Dodge affiliates, or from alleged asbestos in talc products. Many of these suits involve a large number of codefendants. Based on litigation results to date and facts currently known, FCX believes its liability, if any, in these matters will not have a material adverse effect, either individually or in the aggregate, upon its business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flow. There can be no assurance, however, that future developments will not alt er this conclusion. Water Rights Water law in the western U.S. is generally based on the doctrine of prior appropriation (first in time, first in right) and permits the water right holder the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use, at a designated location. Our operations in the western U.S. require water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Continuous operation of these mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims. The loss of water rights, in whole or in part, could have a significant adverse affect on our mining operations. Two water rights adjudications have been initiated in the state of Arizona in order to quantify and prioritize all surface water claims in two of the states river systems that include four of our operating mines (Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford). Any precedents set in these legal proceedings may also impact our Bagdad, Arizona mine. These adjudications have been under way for many years, and we cannot predict when they will be concluded. In Re the General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Little Colorado Water System and Sources, Apache County, Superior Court, No. 6417, filed on or about February 17, 1978. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the State of Arizona; the Salt River Project; the Arizona Public Service Company; the Navajo Nation, the Hopi Indian Tribe; the San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe; and the United States on behalf of those tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe. In Re The General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Gila River System and Sources, Maricopa County, Superior Court, Cause Nos. W 1 (Salt), W 2 (Verde), W 3 (Upper Gila), and W 4 (San Pedro), filed on February 17, 1978. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the State of Arizona; the Gila Valley Irrigation District; the Franklin Irrigation District; the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District; the Salt River Project; the San Carlos Apache Tribe; the Gila River Indian Community; and the United States on behalf of those Tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe, the Fort McDowell Mohave Apache Indian Community, the Salt River Pima Maricopa Indian Community, and the Payson Community of Yavapai Apache Indians. In 1998, we entered into a water rights settlement agreement with the Gila River Indian Community (GRIC), which was later included in a comprehensive water rights settlement under the Arizona Water Settlements Act of 2004. The GRIC settlement is subject to contingencies, and the comprehensive settlement has been challenged by other parties. If we are unable to resolve the contingencies in the GRIC settlement and defeat the third party challenges, our water rights in the Gila River watershed could be diminished, and our operations at Morenci, Sierrita, Miami and Safford could be adversely affected. Prior to January 1, 1983, various Indian tribes filed suits in the U.S. District Court in Arizona claiming superior rights to water being used by many other water users, including us, and claiming damages for prior use in derogation of their allegedly superior rights. These federal proceedings have been stayed pending the Arizona Superior Court adjudications. United States v. Gila Valley Irrigation District, United States District Court, District of Arizona, was initiated in 1925 by the United States to settle conflicting claims to water rights in portions of the Gila River watershed. A decree settling the claims of various parties was entered in 1935, after we had been dismissed from the case without prejudice. In 1988, the Gila River Indian Community intervened, challenging uses of water in the Gila River watershed, which may impact water that we have the right to divert annually from Eagle Creek, Chase Creek or the San Francisco River for operation of our Morenci mine, pursuant to decreed rights and an agreement between us and the Gila Valley Irrigation District. Our Morenci operations also purchased farm lands with water righ ts in 59 Table of Contents 1997, 1998 and 2008 that could be affected by the outcome of this proceeding. Impairment of our water claims in the Gila River watershed could adversely affect the operations of our Morenci and Safford mines. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant. Certain information as of February 11, 2011, about our executive officers is set forth in the following table and accompanying text: Name Age Position or Office James R. Moffett 72 Chairman of the Board Richard C. Adkerson 64 Director, President and Chief Executive Officer Michael J. Arnold 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Kathleen L. Quirk 47 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer James R. Moffett has served as Chairman of the Board since May 1992. Mr. Moffett previously served as the Chief Executive Officer from July 1995 until December 2003. He has also served as Co Chairman of the Board of McMoRan Exploration Co. (McMoRan) since September 1998, and President and Chief Executive Officer since May 2010. Richard C. Adkerson has served as President since January 2008 and also from April 1997 to March 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2003 and a director since October 2006. Mr. Adkerson previously served as Chief Financial Officer from October 2000 to December 2003. Mr. Adkerson has also served as Co Chairman of the Board of McMoRan since September 1998. Michael J. Arnold has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007 and Chief Administrative Officer since December 2003. Kathleen L. Quirk has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007, Chief Financial Officer since December 2003 and Treasurer since February 2000. Ms. Quirk previously served as Senior Vice President from December 2003 to March 2007. Ms. Quirk has also served as the Senior Vice President of McMoRan since April 2002 and as Treasurer since January 2000. Item 4B. Mine Safety Disclosure The safety and health of all our employees are of the highest priority. Management believes that safety and health considerations are integral to, and compatible with, all other functions in the organization and that proper safety and health management will enhance production and reduce costs. Our approach towards the health and safety of our workforce is to continuously improve performance through implementing robust management systems and providing adequate training, safety incentive and occupational health programs. Our objective is zero work place injuries and occupational illnesses. We measure progress toward achieving our objectives against regularly established benchmarks, including measuring company wide Total Recordable Incident Rates (TRIR). During 2010, our TRIR (including contractors) was 0.65 per 200,000 man hours worked, compared to the preliminary metal mining sector industry average reported by the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) for 2010 of 2.53 per 200,000 man hours worked. For 2009, our TRIR (including contractors) was 0.74 per 200,000 man hours worked, compared to MSHAs 2009 metal mining sector industry average of 2.61 per 200,000 man hours worked. We incurred capital expenditures totaling $31 million in 2010 associated with our workplace health and safety programs. 60 Table of Contents Refer to Exhibit 99.1 for mine safety disclosures required to be disclosed in accordance with Section 1503(a) of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Common Stock Our common shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol FCX. The FCX share price is reported daily in the financial press under FMCG in most listings of NYSE securities. The table below shows the NYSE composite tape common share price ranges during 2010 and 2009: 2010a 2009a High Low High Low First Quarter $ 45.28 $ 33.02 $ 21.73 $ 10.58 Second Quarter 44.15 29.12 30.78 18.30 Third Quarter 43.96 28.36 36.72 21.60 Fourth Quarter 60.39 43.19 43.68 31.50 a. Common share prices have been adjusted to reflect the February 1, 2011, two for one stock split. At February 11, 2011, there were 17,488 holders of record of our common stock. Common Stock Dividends All references to common stock dividends have been adjusted to reflect the February 1, 2011, two for one stock split. In December 2008, the Board of Directors suspended the cash dividend on our common stock; accordingly, there were no common stock dividends paid in 2009. In October 2009, the Board of Directors reinstated a cash dividend on our common stock at an annual rate of $0.30 per share. In April 2010, the Board of Directors authorized an increase in the cash dividend to an annual rate of $0.60 per share, and in October 2010, authorized another increase in the cash dividend to an annual rate of $1.00 per share. Additionally, in December 2010, the Board of Directors declared a supplemental common stock dividend of $0.50 per share. Below is a summary of common stock cash dividends declared and paid during 2010: 2010 Per Share Amount Record Date Payment Date First Quarter $ 0.075 01/15/2010 02/01/2010 Second Quarter 0.075 04/15/2010 05/01/2010 Third Quarter 0.150 07/15/2010 08/01/2010 Fourth Quarter 0.150 10/15/2010 11/01/2010 Supplemental Dividend 0.500 12/20/2010 12/30/2010 The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. In addition, payment of dividends on our common stock and purchases of common stock are subject to limitations under our senior notes and, in certain circumstances, our revolving credit facilities. 61 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table sets forth information with respect to shares of FCX common stock purchased by us during the three months ended December 31, 2010: (d) Maximum Number (c) Total Number of (or Approximate (a) Total Shares (or Units) Dollar Value) of Shares Number of (b) Average Purchased as Part of (or Units) That May Shares (or Units) Price Paid Per Publicly Announced Yet Be Purchased Under Period Purchaseda Share (or Unit) Plans or Programsb the Plans or Programsb October 1 31, 2010 $ 23,685,500 November 1 30, 2010 532,781 c 102.65 23,685,500 December 1 31, 2010 23,685,500 Total 532,781 102.65 23,685,500 a. Consists of shares repurchased to satisfy tax obligations to cover the cost of options exercised under FCXs applicable stock incentive plans. b. On July 21, 2008, FCXs Board of Directors approved an increase in FCXs open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. The program does not have an expiration date. c. Under terms of the related plans, upon exercise of stock options employees may tender FCX shares to FCX to pay the exercise price and or the minimum required taxes. These treasury shares were not affected by the February 1, 2011 two for one stock split. 62 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data. FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007a 2006 FCX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Revenues $ 18,982 $ 15,040 $ 17,796 $ 16,939 b $ 5,791 Operating income (loss) 9,068 6,503 c,e (12,710 )d,e,f 6,555 b,f 2,869 Income (loss) from continuing operations 5,544 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,733 1,625 Net income (loss) 5,544 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,779 1,625 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 1,208 785 617 802 168 Net income (loss) attributable to FCX common stockholders 4,273 g 2,527 c,e,g (11,341 )d,e,f,g 2,769 b,f,g 1,396 g Basic net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operationsh $ 4.67 $ 3.05 $ (14.86 ) $ 4.01 $ 3.66 Discontinued operationsh 0.05 Basic net income (loss)h $ 4.67 $ 3.05 $ (14.86 ) $ 4.06 $ 3.66 Basic weighted average common shares outstandingh 915 829 763 682 381 Diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operationsh $ 4.57 $ 2.93 $ (14.86 ) $ 3.70 $ 3.32 Discontinued operationsh 0.05 Diluted net income (loss)h $ 4.57 g $ 2.93 c,e,g $ (14.86 )d,e,f,g $ 3.75 b,f,g $ 3.32 g Diluted weighted average common shares outstandingh 949 938 763 794 443 Dividends declared per share of common stockh $ 1.125 $ 0.075 $ 0.6875 $ 0.6875 $ 2.53125 At December 31: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,738 $ 2,656 $ 872 $ 1,626 $ 907 Property, plant, equipment and development costs, net 16,785 16,195 16,002 25,715 3,099 Goodwill 6,105 Total assets 29,386 25,996 23,353 40,661 5,390 Total debt, including current portion 4,755 6,346 7,351 7,211 680 Total FCX stockholders equity 12,504 9,119 5,773 18,234 2,445 The selected consolidated financial data shown above is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. You should read this data in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our full consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this annual report. a. Includes the results of Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge) beginning March 20, 2007. b. Includes charges totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.13 per share) for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge. c. Includes charges totaling $77 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.07 per share) associated with a loss contingency and restructuring charges. d. Includes charges totaling $17.0 billion ($12.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $16.60 per share) associated with impairment and restructuring charges. e. Includes charges for lower of cost or market inventory adjustments totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.02 per share) in 2009 and $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.63 per share) in 2008. f. Includes purchase accounting impacts related to the acquisition of Phelps Dodge totaling $1.0 billion ($622 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.82 per share) in 2008 and $1.3 billion ($793 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $1.00 per share) in 2007. g. Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversion of debt totaling $71 million ($0.07 per share) in 2010, $43 million ($0.04 per share) in 2009, $5 million ($0.01 per share) in 2008, $132 million ($0.17 per share) in 2007 and $30 million ($0.07 per share) in 2006; 2008 also includes charges totaling $22 million ($0.03 per share) associated with privately negotiated transactions to induce conversion of a portion of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock into FCX common stock. h. Amounts have been adjusted to reflect the February 1, 2011, two for one stock split. 63 Table of Contents FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (Continued) For comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007a 2006 a FCX CONSOLIDATED MINING OPERATING DATA Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 3,908 4,103 4,030 3,884 3,639 Production (thousands of metric tons) 1,773 1,861 1,828 1,762 1,651 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 3,896 4,111 4,066 3,862 3,630 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 1,767 1,865 1,844 1,752 1,647 Average realized price per pound $ 3.59 $ 2.60 $ 2.69 $ 3.22 b $ 2.80 b Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 1,886 2,664 1,291 2,329 1,863 Sales, excluding purchases 1,863 2,639 1,314 2,320 1,866 Average realized price per ounce $ 1,271 $ 993 $ 861 $ 682 $ 566 c Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 72 54 73 70 68 Sales, excluding purchases 67 58 71 69 69 Average realized price per pound $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 $ 21.87 NORTH AMERICA COPPER MINES Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,067 1,147 1,430 1,320 1,305 Production (thousands of metric tons) 484 520 649 599 592 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 1,085 1,187 1,434 1,332 1,303 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 492 538 650 604 591 Average realized price per pound $ 3.42 $ 2.38 $ 3.07 $ 3.10 d $ 2.29 d Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 25 25 30 30 31 100% Operating Data Solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 648,800 589,400 1,095,200 798,200 801,200 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.24 0.29 0.22 0.23 0.30 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 746 859 943 940 1,013 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 189,200 169,900 249,600 223,800 199,300 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 0.32 0.33 0.40 0.35 0.33 Molybdenum 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 83.0 86.0 82.9 84.5 85.0 Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper 398 364 599 501 414 Molybdenum 25 25 30 30 31 SOUTH AMERICA MINING Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,354 1,390 1,506 1,413 1,133 Production (thousands of metric tons) 614 631 683 641 514 Sales (millions of pounds) 1,335 1,394 1,521 1,399 1,126 Sales (thousands of metric tons) 606 632 690 635 511 Average realized price per pound $ 3.68 $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 3.25 $ 3.03 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 93 92 114 116 112 Sales 93 90 116 114 111 Average realized price per ounce $ 1,263 $ 982 $ 853 $ 683 $ 552 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 7 2 3 1 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 268,800 258,200 279,700 289,100 257,400 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.41 0.45 0.45 0.43 0.45 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 504 565 560 569 695 64 Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007a 2006a SOUTH AMERICA MINING (continued) Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 188,800 181,300 181,400 167,900 68,500 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 0.65 0.66 0.75 0.74 0.87 Molybdenum 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 90.0 88.9 89.2 87.1 93.8 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 850 825 946 844 438 Gold (thousands of ounces) 93 92 114 116 112 Molybdenum (millions of pounds) 7 2 3 1 INDONESIA MINING Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 1,222 1,412 1,094 1,151 1,201 Production (thousands of metric tons) 554 640 496 522 545 Sales (millions of pounds) 1,214 1,400 1,111 1,131 1,201 Sales (thousands of metric tons) 551 635 504 513 545 Average realized price per pound $ 3.69 $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 3.32 $ 3.13 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 1,786 2,568 1,163 2,198 1,732 Sales 1,765 2,543 1,182 2,185 1,736 Average realized price per ounce $ 1,271 $ 994 $ 861 $ 681 $ 567 c 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day) 230,200 238,300 192,900 212,600 229,400 Average ore grade: Copper (percent) 0.85 0.98 0.83 0.82 0.85 Gold (grams per metric ton) 0.90 1.30 0.66 1.24 0.85 Recovery rates (percent): Copper 88.9 90.6 90.1 90.5 86.1 Gold 81.7 83.7 79.9 86.2 80.9 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 1,330 1,641 1,109 1,211 1,300 Gold (thousands of ounces) 1,964 2,984 1,163 2,608 1,824 AFRICA MINING Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 265 154 e N/A N/A N/A Production (thousands of metric tons) 120 70 e N/A N/A N/A Sales (millions of pounds) 262 130 e N/A N/A N/A Sales (thousands of metric tons) 119 59 e N/A N/A N/A Average realized price per pound $ 3.45 $ 2.85 e N/A N/A N/A Cobalt (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 20 N/A N/A N/A N/A Sales 20 N/A N/A N/A N/A Average realized price per pound $ 10.95 N/A N/A N/A N/A Ore milled (metric tons per day) 10,300 7,300 e N/A N/A N/A Average ore grade (percent): Copper 3.51 3.69 e N/A N/A N/A Cobalt 0.40 N/A N/A N/A N/A Copper recovery rate (percent) 91.4 92.1 e N/A N/A N/A MOLYBDENUM OPERATIONS Molybdenum sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds)f 67 58 71 69 69 Average realized price per pound $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 $ 21.87 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day) 22,900 14,900 24,100 24,000 22,200 Average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.25 0.25 0.23 0.23 0.23 Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 40 27 40 39 37 a. For comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. b. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.27 per pound for 2007 and $3.08 per pound for 2006. c. Amount was approximately $606 per ounce before a loss resulting from the redemption of FCXs Gold Denominated Preferred Stock, Series II. d. Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.25 per pound for 2007 and $3.06 per pound for 2006. e. Results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in March 2009. f. Includes sales of molybdenum produced at our North and South America copper mines. 65 Table of Contents For the ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculation, earnings consist of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, equity in affiliated companies net earnings, cumulative effect of accounting changes and fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest. For the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends calculation, we assumed that our preferred stock dividend requirements were equal to the pre tax earnings that would be required to cover those dividend requirements. We computed those pre tax earnings using the effective tax rate for each year. Our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was as follows for the years presented: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 16.3x 9.3x a 9.9x 33.1x Ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends 13.9x 6.1x b 6.6x 14.3x a. As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.4 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. b. As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.8 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. 66 Table of Contents Item 7. and 7A. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW In Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we, us and our refer to Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The results of operations reported and summarized below are not necessarily indicative of future operating results (refer to Cautionary Statement for further discussion). References to Notes are Notes included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations all references to earnings or losses per share are on a diluted basis, unless otherwise noted, and have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the February 1, 2011, two for one stock split. We are one of the worlds largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. Our portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, significant mining operations in North and South America, and the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The Grasberg minerals district contains the largest single recoverable copper reserve and the largest single gold reserve of any mine in the world based on the latest available reserve data provided by third party industry consultants. We also operate Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in Spain. We have significant reserves, resources and future development opportunities within our portfolio of assets. Since the merger with Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge) in 2007, we have added 42.9 billion pounds of proven and probable copper reserves, including 20.2 billion pounds during 2010, and 1.72 billion pounds of proven and probable molybdenum reserves, including 0.87 billion pounds during 2010. At December 31, 2010, our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves totaled 120.5 billion pounds of copper, which were determined using a long term average copper price of $2.00 per pound (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Mineral Reserves for further discussion). During 2010, 60 percent of our consolidated copper production was from our Grasberg, Morenci and Cerro Verde mines. We also produce gold, primarily at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, which accounted for 95 percent of our consolidated gold production for 2010. For 2010, 56 percent of our consolidated molybdenum production was from the Henderson molybdenum mine, 34 percent was produced at certain of our North America copper mines and 10 percent was produced at our Cerro Verde mine in Peru. Refer to Operations for further discussion of our mining operations. We are increasing near term production at several of our copper mines and are undertaking major projects, including the development of the El Abra sulfide reserves and the underground ore bodies at Grasberg. We are also advancing development activities at the Climax molybdenum mine. Studies are under way to evaluate a large scale concentrator expansion at Cerro Verde, a major mill project at El Abra, various mill projects to process significant sulfide ore in North America and staged expansion options at Tenke. The advancement of these studies is designed to position us to invest in production growth within our existing portfolio of assets. Refer to Operations for further discussion of our current operating and development activities. Our results for the year 2010, compared with 2009, primarily reflected higher average realized metals prices, partially offset by lower copper and gold sales volumes (refer to Consolidated Results for further discussion of our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2010, and 2009). At December 31, 2010, we had $3.7 billion in consolidated cash and $4.8 billion in long term debt. Since January 1, 2009, we repaid approximately $2.6 billion in debt (refer to Capital Resources and Liquidity for further discussion). At current copper prices we expect to produce substantial operating cash flows in 2011, and plan to focus on using our cash to invest in our development projects and return cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and or share repurchases. On February 24, 2011, we announced our intent to redeem the remaining $1.1 billion of the 8.25% Senior Notes due 2015 on April 1, 2011. We expect to record a loss on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $56 million (approximately $49 million to net income attributable to FCX 67 Table of Contents common stockholders) in second quarter 2011 in connection with this redemption. We have no significant debt maturities in the near term; however, we may consider additional opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities. In December 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a $0.50 per share supplemental common stock dividend paid on December 30, 2010, and a two for one common stock split effected on February 1, 2011 (refer to Note 11 for further discussion). All references to shares of our common stock, per share amounts and dividends on common stock herein have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the two for one stock split. In October 2010, the government of the DRC announced the conclusion of the review of Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L.s (TFM) contracts, confirmed that TFMs existing mining contracts are in good standing and acknowledged the rights and benefits granted under those contracts. In connection with the review, TFM made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts. In December 2010, the addenda to TFMs Amended and Restated Mining Convention and Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement were signed by the parties and are pending a Presidential Decree. TFMs existing mining contracts will be in effect until the Presidential Decree is obtained. After giving effect to the amendments and obtaining approval of the modification to TFMs bylaws, our effective ownership intere st in the project will be 56.0 percent, compared to our previous ownership interest of 57.75 percent (refer to Note 14 for further discussion). OUTLOOK We view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the worlds economy, and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. Our financial results can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. World market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Because we cannot control the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flow. Discussion of the outlook for each of these measures follows. Sales Volumes. Following are our actual consolidated sales volumes for 2010 and our projected consolidated sales volumes for 2011: 2010 2011 (Actual) (Projected) Copper (billions of recoverable pounds): North America copper mines 1.1 1.2 South America mining 1.3 1.3 Indonesia mining 1.2 1.0 Africa mining 0.3 0.3 3.9 3.9 a Gold (millions of recoverable ounces): Indonesia mining 1.8 1.3 South America mining 0.1 0.1 1.9 1.4 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds)b 67 70 a. Represents the sum of projected copper sales volumes before rounding. b. Includes sales of molybdenum produced at our North and South America copper mines. Consolidated sales volumes for 2011 are estimated to approximate 3.85 billion pounds of copper, 1.4 million ounces of gold and 70 million pounds of molybdenum. Lower copper sales from Indonesia as a result of mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit are expected to be offset by increases from North America primarily reflecting increased mining rates at Morenci. Lower estimated gold sales volumes for 2011 are a result of lower ore grades at Grasberg. Our projected sales volumes for 2011 depend on the achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors. 68 Table of Contents Unit Net Cash Costs. Assuming average prices of $1,350 per ounce of gold and $15 per pound of molybdenum for 2011, and achievement of current 2011 sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate our consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our copper mining operations would average approximately $1.10 per pound in 2011. The impact of price changes in 2011 on consolidated unit net cash costs would approximate $0.02 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. Consolidated unit net cash costs in 2011 are expected to be higher than consolidated unit net cash costs of $0.79 per pound of copper in 2010 primarily because of the impact of higher unit net cash costs a t Grasberg associated with lower copper and gold volumes and higher input costs. Refer to Consolidated Results Production and Delivery Costs for further discussion of consolidated production and delivery costs. Operating Cash Flows. Our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. Based on the above projected consolidated sales volumes and unit net cash costs for 2011, and assuming average prices of $4.25 per pound of copper, $1,350 per ounce of gold and $15 per pound of molybdenum in 2011, we estimate consolidated operating cash flows will approximate $8 billion in 2011, net of an estimated $100 million for working capital requirements. In addition to projected working capital requirements, our estimate of operating cash flow for the year 2011 is also net of estimated taxes of $3.5 billion (refer to Consolidated Results (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes for discussion of our projected annual consolidated effective tax rate for 2011). The impact of price changes in 2011 on operating cash flows would approximate $150 million for each $0.05 per pound change in the average price of copper, $55 million for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $80 million for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. COPPER, GOLD AND MOLYBDENUM MARKETS World prices for copper, gold and molybdenum can fluctuate significantly. During the period from January 2001 through January 2011, the London Metal Exchange (LME) spot copper price varied from a low of $0.60 per pound in 2001 to a new record high of $4.60 per pound in February 2011; the London gold price fluctuated from a low of $256 per ounce in 2001 to a new record high of $1,421 per ounce in November 2010; and the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price ranged from a low of $2.19 per pound in 2001 to a high of $39.25 per pound in 2005. Copper, gold and molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control as described further in our Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2010. * Excludes Shanghai stocks, producer, consumer and merchant stocks. 69 Table of Contents This graph presents LME spot copper prices and reported stocks of copper at the LME and the New York Mercantile Exchange (COMEX) from January 2001 through February 11, 2011. From 2006 through most of 2008, disruptions associated with strikes and other operational issues, combined with growing demand from China and other emerging economies, resulted in low levels of inventory. Beginning in late 2008, slowing consumption led to increases in inventory levels; however, Chinas increased buying activity contributed to a decline in exchange inventories during the first half of 2009. After reaching a low in July 2009, inventories grew during the second half of 2009. During 2010, inventories have decreased and at December 31, 2010, combined LME and COMEX stocks totaled approximately 436 thousand metric tons, which represents approximately e ight days of global consumption. Turmoil in the United States (U.S.) financial markets and concerns about the global economy negatively impacted copper prices in late 2008, which declined to a four year low of $1.26 per pound in December 2008; however, copper prices have since improved significantly, attributable to a combination of strong demand from China, recovering demand in the western world and limitations of available supply. During 2010, LME spot copper prices ranged from $2.76 per pound to $4.42 per pound, averaged $3.42 per pound and closed at $4.42 per pound on December 31, 2010. We believe the underlying fundamentals of the copper business remain positive, supported by limited supplies from existing mines and the absence of significant new development projects. Future copper prices are expected to be volatile and are likely to be influenced by demand from Chi na, economic activity in the U.S. and other industrialized countries, the timing of the development of new supplies of copper and production levels of mines and copper smelters. The LME spot copper price closed at $4.50 per pound on February 11, 2011. This graph presents London gold prices from January 2001 through February 11, 2011. Gold prices reached a new record high of $1,421 per ounce in November 2010, supported by investment demand and weakness in the U.S. dollar. During 2010, gold prices ranged from $1,058 per ounce to $1,421 per ounce, averaged $1,225 per ounce and closed at $1,410 per ounce on December 31, 2010. London gold prices closed at $1,364 per ounce on February 11, 2011. 70 Table of Contents This graph presents the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price from January 2001 through February 11, 2011. In late 2008, molybdenum prices declined significantly as a result of the financial market turmoil and a decline in demand; however, molybdenum prices have since increased, which we believe is supported by improved demand in the chemicals sector. During 2010, the weekly average price of molybdenum ranged from $11.75 per pound to $18.60 per pound, averaged $15.71 per pound and was $16.40 per pound on December 31, 2010. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price was $17.58 per pound on February 11, 2011. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. The preparation of these statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We base these estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we consider reasonable under the circumstances; however, reported results could differ from those based on the current estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The areas requiring the use of managements estimates are also discussed in Note 1 under the subheading Use of Estimates. Management has reviewed the following discussion of its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Mineral Reserves. Recoverable proven and probable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates. Estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth of our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. In addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees. A majority of these estimates have been reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. At December 31, 2010, our consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves included 120.5 billion pounds of copper, 35.5 million ounces of gold and 3.39 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using long 71 Table of Contents term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold and $10.00 per pound for molybdenum, compared with $1.60 per pound for copper, $550 per ounce for gold and $8.00 per pound for molybdenum for the proven and probable reserve estimates at December 31, 2009. The following table summarizes changes in our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper, gold and molybdenum reserves during 2009 and 2010: Copper Gold Molybdenum (billion (million (billion pounds) ounces) pounds) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2008 102.0 40.0 2.48 Net additions/revisions 6.3 (0.1) 0.16 Production (4.1) (2.7) (0.05) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2009 104.2 37.2 2.59 Net additions/revisions 20.2 0.2 0.87 Production (3.9) (1.9) (0.07) Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2010 120.5 35.5 3.39 Additions to recoverable copper reserves during 2010 included 15.7 billion pounds at our North America copper mines and 4.8 billion pounds at our South America mines reflecting positive exploration results and the effect of higher prices. These additions were partially offset by revisions at other mines. The increases in reserves replaced approximately 5 times our 2010 copper production. Refer to Note 19 for further information regarding estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves. As discussed in Note 1, we depreciate our life of mine mining and milling assets and values assigned to proven and probable reserves using the unit of production (UOP) method based on our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves, and also have other assets that are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations, including changes to prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values. Based on projected copper sales volumes for 2011, if estimated copper reserves at our mines were 10 percent higher at December 31, 2010, we estimate that ou r annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 2011 would decrease by $34 million ($17 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders), and a 10 percent decrease in copper reserves would increase depreciation, depletion and amortization expense by $41 million ($21 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders). We perform annual assessments of our existing assets in connection with the review of mine operating and development plans. If it is determined that assigned asset lives do not reflect the expected remaining period of benefit, any change could affect prospective depreciation rates. At December 31, 2010, our long lived assets include amounts assigned to proven and probable reserves totaling $4.5 billion. As discussed below and in Note 1, we review and evaluate our long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and changes to our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves could have an impact on our assessment of asset recoverability. Recoverable Copper. We record, as inventory, applicable costs for copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles that are expected to be processed in the future based on proven processing technologies. Mill and leach stockpiles are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are stated at the lower of cost or market. Accounting for recoverable copper from mill and leach stockpiles represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, which requires management to employ reasonable estimation methods and (ii) recovery rates from leach stockpiles can vary significantly. The quantity of mate rial delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small scale laboratory tests, small to large scale column testing (which simulates the production scale process), historical trends and other factors, 72 Table of Contents including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. During fourth quarter 2010 revised recovery rate estimates at El Abra resulted in a reduction of 163 million pounds in leach stockpiles. At December 31, 2010, estimated recoverable copper was 2.6 billion pounds in leach stockpiles (with a carrying value of $1.8 billion) and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (with a carrying value of $505 million). Environmental Obligations. Our mining, exploration, production and historical operating activities are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, and compliance with those laws requires significant expenditures. Environmental expenditures for closed facilities and closed portions of operating facilities are expensed or capitalized depending upon their future economic benefits. The general guidance provided by U.S. GAAP requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 1 for discussion of our accounting policy for environmental expe nditures. Accounting for environmental obligations represents a critical accounting estimate because changes to environmental laws and regulations and or circumstances affecting our operations could result in significant changes to our estimates, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. We review changes in facts and circumstances associated with our environmental obligations on a quarterly basis. Judgments and estimates are based upon available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, remediation experience, whether or not we are a potentially responsible party (PRP), the ability of other PRPs to pay their allocated portions and take into consideration reasonably possible outcomes. Our cost estimates can change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or ex tent of site contamination, required remediation methods and actions by or against governmental agencies or private parties. At December 31, 2010, environmental obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheets totaled approximately $1.4 billion, which reflect obligations for environmental liabilities attributed to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. Following is a summary of changes in our estimated environmental obligations for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of year $ 1,464 $ 1,401 $ 1,268 Liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge 117 Accretion expensea 97 102 95 Additions 19 40 36 Reductions (3 ) (1 ) Spending (158 ) (76 ) (114 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,422 $ 1,464 $ 1,401 a. Represents accretion of the fair value of environmental obligations assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, which were determined on a discounted cash flow basis. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of environmental obligations. Reclamation and Closure Costs. Reclamation is an ongoing activity that occurs throughout the life of a mine. We record the fair value of our estimated asset retirement obligations (AROs) associated with tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. Fair value is measured as the present value of cash flow estimates after considering inflation and then applying a market risk premium. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. These cost estimates may differ from financial assurance cost estimates for reclamation activities because of a variety of factors, including obtaining updated cost estimates for reclamation activities, the timing of reclamation activities, changes 73 Table of Contents in scope and the exclusion of certain costs not considered reclamation and closure costs. Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of our accounting policy for reclamation and closure costs. Generally, ARO activities are specified by regulations or in permits issued by the relevant governing authority, and management judgment is required to estimate the extent and timing of expenditures based on life of mine planning. Accounting for reclamation and closure costs represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) we will not incur most of these costs for a number of years, requiring us to make estimates over a long period, (ii) reclamation and closure laws and regulations could change in the future and or circumstances affecting our operations could change, either of which could result in significant changes to our current plans, (iii) calculating the fair value of our AROs requires management to estimate projected cash flows, make long term assumptions about inflation rates, determine our credit adjusted, risk free interes t rates and determine market risk premiums that are appropriate for our operations and (iv) given the magnitude of our estimated reclamation and closure costs, changes in any or all of these estimates could have a significant impact on our results of operations. At least annually, we review our ARO estimates for changes in the projected timing of certain reclamation costs, changes in cost estimates and additional AROs incurred during the period. Following is a summary of changes in our AROs for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2010 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of year $ 731 $ 712 $ 728 Liabilities incurred 5 12 5 Revisions to cash flow estimates 105 a (17 ) 21 Accretion expense 54 52 51 Spending (38 ) (28 ) (91 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment (1 ) (2 ) Balance at end of year $ 856 $ 731 $ 712 a. During 2010, the revisions to cash flow estimates were primarily related to the increased cost and accelerated timing of closure activities at Chino. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. Deferred Taxes. In preparing our annual consolidated financial statements, we estimate the actual amount of taxes currently payable or receivable as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in income in the period in which such changes are enacted. A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be realized. In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each jurisdiction. If we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets, we will increase our valuation allowance. Conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to realize all or a portion of the related benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided, all or a portion of the related valuation allowance will be reduced. At December 31, 2010, our valuation allowances totaled $2.2 billion and covered all of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards, and a portion of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards, U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards, and U.S. minimum tax credit carryforwards. At December 31, 2009, our valuation allowances totaled $2.2 billion and covered all of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards and U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards, and a portion of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards and U.S. minimum tax credit carryforwards. These valuation allowances include $59 million and $44 million, respectively, relating to tax benefits that, if recognized, would be credited directly to other comprehensive income. The $69 million increase in the valuation allowance during 2010 was primarily the result of an increase in foreign tax credit carryforwards, partially offset by a decrease in minimum tax credit carryforwards. Refer to Note 12 for further discussion. Impairment of Assets. We evaluate our long lived assets (to be held and used) for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. In 74 Table of Contents evaluating our long lived assets for recoverability, estimates of after tax undiscounted future cash flows of our individual mining operations are used, with impairment losses measured by reference to fair value. As quoted market prices are unavailable for our individual mining operations, fair value is determined through the use of discounted estimated future cash flows. The estimated cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations are derived from current business plans, which are developed using near term price forecasts reflective of the current price environment and managements projections for long term average metal prices. In addition to near and long term metal price assumptions, other key estimates include commodity based and other input costs; proven and pr obable reserves, including the timing and cost to develop and produce the reserves; and the use of appropriate escalation and discount rates. Because the cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations require us to make several estimates and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainty, changes in these estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our long lived assets values. Events that could result in impairment of our long lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in future metal prices, decreases in estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves and any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on mine site production levels or costs. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the then current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business and evaluated our long lived assets for impairment. Projected metal prices represented the most significant assumption used in the cash flow estimates to assess recoverability and measure fair value of our individual mining operations. Our evaluation resulted in the recognition of asset impairment charges totaling $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $8.67 per share) for 2008. Refer to Note 17 for further discussion of the 2008 asset impairment charges. Additionally, goodwill was recorded in connection with the March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge and was assigned to the reporting units, or individual mines, that were expected to benefit from the business combination. Goodwill is required to be evaluated for impairment at least annually and at any other time if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Our annual goodwill impairment test was performed in fourth quarter 2008, which resulted in the full impairment of goodwill and the recognition of charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $7.84 per share). Refer to Note 5 for further discussion. 75 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED RESULTS Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Financial Data (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenuesa,b $ 18,982 $ 15,040 $ 17,796 Operating income (loss)b 9,068 6,503 (12,710 )c Net income (loss) 5,544 3,534 (10,450 ) Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 1,208 785 617 Net income (loss) attributable to FCX common stockholdersd 4,273 e 2,527 e (11,341 )c,e Diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholdersf,g $ 4.57 e $ 2.93 e $ (14.86 )c,e Diluted weighted average common shares outstandingf,g 949 938 763 Mining Operating Data Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 3,908 4,103 4,030 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 3,896 4,111 4,066 Average realized price per pound $ 3.59 $ 2.60 $ 2.69 Site production and delivery costs per poundh $ 1.40 $ 1.12 $ 1.51 Unit net cash costs per poundh $ 0.79 $ 0.55 $ 1.16 Gold (recoverable) Production (thousands of ounces) 1,886 2,664 1,291 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of ounces) 1,863 2,639 1,314 Average realized price per ounce $ 1,271 $ 993 $ 861 Molybdenum (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds) 72 54 73 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 67 58 71 Average realized price per pound $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 a. Includes the impact of adjustments to provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales recognized in prior periods. Refer to Revenues and Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion. b. Following is a summary of revenues and operating income (loss) by operating division (in millions): Years Ended December 31, Revenues 2010 2009 2008 North America copper mines $ 4,136 $ 3,235 $ 5,265 South America mining 4,991 3,839 4,166 Indonesia mining 6,377 5,908 3,412 Africa mining 1,106 389 Molybdenum 1,205 847 2,488 Rod & Refining 4,470 3,356 5,557 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,491 1,892 2,341 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,794 ) (4,426 ) (5,433 ) Total FCX revenues $ 18,982 $ 15,040 $ 17,796 Years Ended December 31, Operating income (loss) 2010 2009 2008 North America copper mines $ 1,848 $ 1,020 $ (11,522 ) South America mining 3,063 2,001 (694 ) Indonesia mining 4,099 4,034 1,307 Africa mining 490 8 (26 ) Molybdenum 357 126 (1,473 ) Rod & Refining 19 14 2 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining (37 ) (56 ) 10 Corporate, other & eliminations (771 ) (644 ) (314 ) Total FCX operating income (loss) $ 9,068 $ 6,503 $ (12,710 ) Refer to Note 18 for further discussion of our operating divisions and business segments. c. Includes long lived asset impairments and other charges totaling $11.0 billion ($6.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $8.76 per share), goodwill impairment charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $7.84 per share), and charges for LCM inventory adjustments totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.63 per share). Refer to Notes 5 and 17 for further discussion. 76 Table of Contents d. After noncontrolling interests and preferred dividends. e. Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversions of debt totaling $71 million ($0.07 per share) in 2010 associated with the redemption of our $1.0 billion Senior Floating Rate Notes and open market purchases of Senior Notes, $43 million ($0.04 per share) in 2009 associated with the redemption and open market purchases of Senior Notes and $5 million ($0.01 per share) in 2008 associated with an open market purchase of Senior Notes. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion. f. Amounts have been adjusted to reflect the February 1, 2011, two for one stock split. g. As applicable, reflects assumed conversion of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock (which converted into 35.8 million shares of FCX common stock in September 2009) and 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (which converted into 78.9 million shares of FCX common stock during 2010). In addition, the 2009 period includes the effects of the 53.6 million shares of common stock we sold in February 2009. Common shares outstanding on December 31, 2010, totaled 945 million. Refer to Note 11 for further discussion. h. Reflects per pound weighted average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for all copper mines, excluding net noncash and other costs. The 2009 period excludes the results of Africa mining as start up activities were still under way. For reconciliations of the per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs and to Product Revenues and Production Costs. Revenues Consolidated revenues totaled $19.0 billion in 2010, compared with $15.0 billion in 2009 and $17.8 billion in 2008, and include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, gold, molybdenum and other metals by our North and South America mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operations, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes, and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Our mining revenues for 2010 include sales of copper (78 percent), gold (12 percent) and molybdenum (6 percent). Following is a summary of year to year changes in our consolidated revenues (in millions): 2010 2009 Consolidated revenues prior year $ 15,040 $ 17,796 Higher (lower) price realizations from mining operations: Copper 3,779 (288 ) Gold 517 349 Molybdenum 273 (1,056 ) Higher (lower) sales volumes from mining operations: Copper (563 ) 121 Gold (771 ) 1,141 Molybdenum 105 (395 ) Cobalt 195 24 Lower net adjustments primarily for prior year provisionally priced sales (155 ) (139 ) Higher (lower) purchased copper and molybdenum 188 (1,414 ) Higher (lower) Atlantic Copper revenues 599 (449 ) Other, including intercompany eliminations (225 ) (650 ) Consolidated revenues current year $ 18,982 $ 15,040 77 Table of Contents Price Realizations 2010 Compared with 2009. Our consolidated revenues can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. Consolidated revenues in 2010 reflected higher price realizations. Realized copper prices averaged $3.59 per pound in 2010, compared with $2.60 per pound in 2009; realized gold prices averaged $1,271 per ounce in 2010, compared with $993 per ounce in 2009; and realized molybdenum prices averaged $16.47 per pound in 2010, compared with $12.36 per pound in 2009. 2009 Compared with 2008. Consolidated revenues in 2009 were impacted by lower copper and molybdenum prices compared to 2008. Realized copper prices averaged $2.60 per pound in 2009, compared with $2.69 per pound in 2008 and realized molybdenum prices averaged $12.36 per pound in 2009, compared with $30.55 per pound in 2008. Partly offsetting lower copper and molybdenum realizations were higher realized gold prices, which averaged $993 per ounce in 2009, compared with $861 per ounce in 2008. Sales Volumes 2010 Compared with 2009. Consolidated sales volumes totaled 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 1.9 million ounces of gold and 67 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010, compared with 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 2.6 million ounces of gold and 58 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009. Lower consolidated copper sales volumes in 2010 primarily resulted from lower ore grades at Grasberg and lower volumes at our North America copper mines, partly offset by additional volumes provided by our Tenke mine in Africa. Lower consolidated gold sales volumes in 2010 primarily reflected lower ore grades at Grasberg from planned mine sequencing. Higher consolidated molybdenum sales volumes in 2010 reflected improved demand in the chemicals sector. Refer to Operations for further disc ussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. 2009 Compared with 2008. Consolidated sales volumes totaled 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 2.6 million ounces of gold and 58 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009, compared with 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 1.3 million ounces of gold and 71 million pounds of molybdenum in 2008. Copper sales volumes in 2009, compared with 2008, reflected mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit and the contribution of 2009 sales volumes from the Tenke mine, offset by lower sales volumes as a result of production curtailments at the North America copper mines and lower ore grades at Candelaria. Mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit also resulted in substantially higher gold sales volumes in 2009. Lower molybdenum sales volumes in 2009 reflected reduced deman d in the metallurgical and chemicals sectors. Provisionally Priced Sales Under the long established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of our concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME monthly average spot prices (refer to Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion). Adjustments to the December 31, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales resulted in a net decrease to consolidated revenues of $24 million ($10 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2010. Adjustments to the December 31, 2008, provisionally priced copper sales resulted in a net increase to consolidated revenues o f $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.07 per share) in 2009. Adjustments to the December 31, 2007, provisionally priced copper sales resulted in an increase of $268 million ($114 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.15 per share) in 2008. Purchased Copper and Molybdenum We primarily purchase copper cathode to be processed by our Rod & Refining segment when production from our North America copper mines does not meet customer demand. We also purchase molybdenum concentrates when customer demand requires it. The decrease in purchased copper and molybdenum for 2009, compared to 2008, resulted from lower demand. Atlantic Copper Revenues The increase in Atlantic Coppers revenues in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily reflected higher copper revenues associated with higher prices. Atlantic Coppers revenues decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflecting lower copper prices. 78 Table of Contents Production and Delivery Costs 2010 Compared with 2009 Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $8.4 billion in 2010, compared with $7.0 billion in 2009. Higher production and delivery costs for 2010 primarily reflect higher input costs at our mining operations and higher costs of concentrate purchases at Atlantic Copper associated with higher copper prices. Consolidated unit site production and delivery costs for our copper mining operations averaged $1.40 per pound of copper in 2010, compared with $1.12 per pound of copper in 2009. Higher site production and delivery costs in 2010 primarily reflected the impact of lower copper sales volumes and increased input costs, including materials, labor and energy, higher North America mining rates and lower volumes at Grasberg. Refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs for further discussion of unit net cash costs associated with our operating divisions, and to Product Revenues and Production Costs for reconciliations of per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally electricity, diesel, coal and natural gas. Energy costs approximated 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs in 2010 and 2009, and included purchases of approximately 215 million gallons of diesel fuel; 6,100 gigawatt hours of electricity at our North America, South America and Africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation); 800 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia; and 1 million MMBTU (million British thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. For 2011, we estimate energy costs will approximate 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $7.0 billion in 2009, compared with $10.4 billion in 2008. Lower production and delivery costs for 2009 primarily reflect the effects of lower operating rates at our North America copper mines, lower commodity based input costs and lower purchases of copper. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 2010 Compared with 2009 Consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.0 billion in 2010 and 2009. Higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense in 2010 for a full year of operations at our Tenke mine was offset by lower expense under the unit of production method at our South America and Grasberg mines. 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.0 billion in 2009, compared with $1.8 billion in 2008. The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense reflected the impact of long lived asset impairments recognized at December 31, 2008, on our depreciable net book values. Lower of Cost or Market (LCM) Inventory Adjustments Inventories are required to be recorded at the lower of cost or market. In 2009, we recognized charges of $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.02 per share) for LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments. We recorded no further LCM inventory adjustments subsequent to first quarter 2009. In 2008, we recorded LCM inventory adjustments totaling $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.63 per share). Inventories acquired in connection with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge (including long term mill and leach stockpiles) were recorded at fair value using near term price forecasts reflecting the then current price environment and managements projections for long term average metal prices. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2010 Compared with 2009 Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $381 million in 2010, compared with $321 million in 2009. Approximately half of the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses reflected higher stock based compensation and other incentive compensation costs related to financial performance. 79 Table of Contents 2009 Compared with 2008 Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $321 million in 2009, compared with $269 million in 2008. Higher selling, general and administrative expenses primarily reflected a net increase in incentive compensation costs related to financial performance, partly offset by reductions associated with administrative costs savings initiatives. Exploration and Research Expenses Consolidated exploration and research expenses totaled $143 million in 2010, $90 million in 2009 and $292 million in 2008. Throughout most of 2008, expenditures primarily reflected increased exploration efforts in North America and also in Africa, including targets outside the area of initial development at Tenke. However, in response to weak market conditions at the end of 2008, we revised operating plans to significantly reduce exploration costs in 2009. During 2009 and 2010, we focused on analyzing exploration data gained through the core drilling previously undertaken in addition to conducting new activities. Exploration activities are being conducted near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large minerals districts where we currently operate. Favorable exploration results indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in North and South America and in the Tenke minerals district. The drilling data in North America continue to indicate the potential for expanded sulfide production. For 2011, exploration and research expenditures are being increased to an estimated $250 million, including approximately $200 million for exploration. Exploration activities will continue to focus primarily on the potential for future reserve additions in our existing minerals districts. Long Lived Asset Impairments and Other Charges During 2009, net restructuring and other charges totaled $77 million ($61 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.07 per share), which included a charge of $54 million ($43 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.05 per share) associated with the partial settlement of the City of Blackwell lawsuit. During 2008, we recognized charges totaling $11.0 billion ($6.7 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $8.76 per share) for long lived asset impairments and other charges. During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the declines in copper and molybdenum prices and the deterioration of the economic environment represented significant adverse changes in the business and evaluated our long lived assets for impairment as of December 31, 2008, which resulted in the recognition of asset impairment charges totaling $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $8.67 per share). In addition, we recorded net restructuring and other charges totaling $111 million ($67 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.09 per share) associated with our revised operating pla ns, including contract termination costs, other project cancellation costs, employee severance and benefits and special retirement benefits and curtailments. Refer to Note 17 for further discussion of these charges. Goodwill Impairment Our annual impairment test of goodwill at December 31, 2008, resulted in the full impairment of goodwill and the recognition of charges totaling $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $7.84 per share). Refer to Note 5 for further discussion. Interest Expense, Net Consolidated interest expense (before capitalization) totaled $528 million in 2010, $664 million in 2009 and $706 million in 2008. Lower interest expense primarily reflected the impact of debt repayments during 2009 and 2010 (refer to Capital Resources and Liquidity Financing Activities for discussion of debt repayments). Lower interest expense in 2009, compared with 2008, also reflected lower interest rates on our variable rate debt. Capitalized interest is primarily related to our development projects and totaled $66 million in 2010, $78 million in 2009 and $122 million in 2008. 80 Table of Contents Losses on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $81 million ($71 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.07 per share) associated with the redemption of our Senior Floating Rate Notes and open market purchases of our 8.25%, 8.375% and 9.50% Senior Notes. During 2009, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $48 million ($43 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.04 per share), associated with the redemption of our 6% Senior Notes and for open market purchases of our 8.25%, 8.375% and 8% Senior Notes. During 2008, we recorded net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $6 million ($5 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.01 per share) associated with an open market purchase of our 9% Senior Notes. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion of these transactions. (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes Our income tax provision for 2010 resulted from taxes on international operations ($2.7 billion) and U.S. operations ($244 million). As presented in the table below, our consolidated effective income tax rate was 35 percent for 2010. Our income tax provision for 2009 resulted from taxes on international operations ($2.3 billion) and U.S. operations ($35 million). During 2009, our consolidated effective income tax rate was highly sensitive to changes in commodity prices and the mix of income between U.S. and international operations. The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 40 percent in 2009 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia, which was taxed at an effective tax rate of 42 percent. A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for 2010 and 2009 follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Income Tax Income Tax Income Effective (Provision) Income Effective (Provision) (Loss)a Tax Rate Benefit (Loss)a Tax Rate Benefit U.S. $ 1,307 19% $ (244 ) $ 98 36% $ (35 )b South America 2,995 33% (999 ) 2,010 32% (650 ) Indonesia 3,873 42% (1,635 ) 4,000 42% (1,697 ) Africa 395 30% (118 ) (60 ) 25% 15 Eliminations and other (58 ) N/A 13 (232 ) N/A 60 Consolidated FCX $ 8,512 35% $ (2,983 ) $ 5,816 40% $ (2,307 ) a. Represents income (loss) by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings. b. Includes a favorable adjustment totaling $43 million resulting from completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts. Our estimated consolidated effective tax rate for 2011 will vary with commodity price changes and the mix of income from international and U.S. operations. Assuming average prices of $4.25 per pound for copper, $1,350 per ounce for gold, $15 per pound for molybdenum and current sales estimates, we estimate our annual consolidated effective tax rate will approximate 34 percent. Our benefit from income taxes in 2008 resulted from U.S. operations ($3.4 billion), partly offset by taxes on international operations ($604 million). The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 21 percent in 2008 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to goodwill impairment charges, which were non deductible for tax purposes, and the recognition of a valuation allowance against U.S. federal alternative minimum tax credits, partly offset by benefits for percentage depletion and U.S. state income taxes. 81 Table of Contents A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated benefit from income taxes for 2008 follows (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2008 Income Tax Income Effective (Provision) (Loss)a Tax Rate Benefit U.S. $ 1,258 15% $ (191 ) South America 1,752 32% (553 ) Indonesia 1,432 43% (612 ) Africa (187 ) 35% 66 Asset impairment charges (10,867 ) 39% 4,212 Goodwill impairment charges (5,987 ) N/A LCM inventory adjustments (782 ) 38% 299 Eliminations and other 72 N/A (18 ) Adjustments N/A N/A (359 )b Consolidated FCX $ (13,309 ) 21% $ 2,844 a. Represents income (loss) by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings. b. Represents an adjustment to establish a valuation allowance against U.S. federal alternative minimum tax credits. Refer to Note 12 for further discussion of income taxes. OPERATIONS North America Copper Mines We currently operate seven copper mines in North America Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford and Miami in Arizona, and Tyrone and Chino in New Mexico. All of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci, an unincorporated joint venture, in which we own an 85 percent undivided interest. The North America copper mines include open pit mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations. Molybdenum is also produced by Sierrita and Bagdad. A majority of the copper produced at our North America copper mines is cast into copper rod by our Rod & Refining operations. Rod and wire sales to outside wire and cable manufacturers represented approximately 81 percent of our North America copper sales in 2010. The remainder of our North America copper sales is primarily in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate. Refer to Note 18 for further discussion of our reportable segment (Morenci) in the North America copper mines division. Operating and Development Activities. We have restarted the Morenci mill and have commenced a staged ramp up of Morencis mining rates. We have also resumed certain project development activities, including initiating restarts of mining at the Miami and Chino mines. Morenci Mill Restart and Mine Ramp up. In March 2010, we restarted the Morenci mill to process available sulfide material currently being mined. Mill throughput averaged 42,200 metric tons of ore per day in fourth quarter 2010 and 26,000 metric tons of ore per day during the year 2010 and is expected to increase to approximately 50,000 metric tons per day in 2011. We have also commenced a staged ramp up at the Morenci mine from the 2009 rate of 450,000 metric tons per day to 635,000 metric tons per day. The mining rate averaged 566,000 metric tons per day in fourth quarter 2010 and over 480,000 metric tons per day during the year 2010. These activities are expected to enable copper production to increase by approximately 125 million pounds per year in 2011. Further increases to More ncis mining rate are being evaluated. We are also evaluating the potential for a new mill at Morenci, which would involve significant investment. Miami Restart. We initiated limited mining activities at the Miami mine to improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site. During an approximate five year mine life, we expect to ramp up production at Miami to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by 2012. We are investing approximately $40 million for this project, which is benefiting from the use of existing mining equipment. 82 Table of Contents Chino Restart. We have initiated a restart of mining and milling activities at the Chino mine, which were suspended in late 2008. The ramp up of mining and milling activities will significantly increase copper production at Chino, which is currently producing small amounts of copper from existing leach stockpiles. Planned mining and milling rates are expected to be achieved by the end of 2013. Incremental annual copper production is expected to be 100 million pounds in 2012 and 2013 and 200 million pounds in 2014. Costs for the project are expected to approximate $150 million, associated with equipment and mill refurbishment. Safford Sulphur Burner. We are completing construction of a sulphur burner at the Safford mine, which will provide a more cost effective source of sulphuric acid used in SX/EW operations and lower transportation costs. This project is expected to be completed in second quarter 2011 at a capital investment of approximately $150 million. Project costs of $98 million have been incurred as of December 31, 2010, of which $69 million was incurred during the year 2010. Twin Buttes. In December 2009, we purchased the Twin Buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994, and is adjacent to our Sierrita mine. The purchase provides significant synergies in the Sierrita minerals district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for Sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. Studies have commenced to incorporate the Twin Buttes resources in our development plans. Other Matters. Refer to Note 13 for information on contingencies at the North America copper mines. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31. 2010 2009 2008 Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,067 1,147 1,430 Sales, excluding purchases 1,085 1,187 1,434 Average realized price per pound $ 3.42 $ 2.38 $ 3.07 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productiona 25 25 30 100% Operating Data SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 648,800 589,400 1,095,200 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.24 0.29 0.22 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 746 859 943 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 189,200 169,900 249,600 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 0.32 0.33 0.40 Molybdenum 0.03 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 83.0 86.0 82.9 Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper 398 364 599 Molybdenum 25 25 30 a. Reflects molybdenum production from certain of our North America copper mines. Sales of molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum division. 2010 Compared with 2009 Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines decreased to 1.1 billion pounds in 2010, compared with 1.2 billion pounds in 2009, primarily because of anticipated lower ore grades at Safford and Sierrita, lower mill throughput because of unscheduled crusher maintenance at Bagdad and mill maintenance at Sierrita. Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines are expected to approximate 1.2 billion pounds in 2011. The impact of increased mining and milling rates at the Morenci mine and the restarts of the Miami and Chino mines are expected to further increase production in future periods. Molybdenum production from our North America copper mines is expected to approximate 35 million pounds in 2011. 83 Table of Contents 2009 Compared with 2008 Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines decreased to 1.2 billion pounds in 2009, compared with 1.4 billion pounds in 2008, which reflects certain of our North America copper mines operating at reduced rates in response to reduced demand for copper in the western world. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper and Molybdenum The following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2010 2009 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Molyb Product Molyb Method Copper denuma Method Copper denuma Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.42 $ 3.42 $ 15.60 $ 2.38 $ 2.38 $ 10.96 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.50 1.35 7.95 1.25 1.15 5.67 By product creditsa (0.35 ) (0.23 ) Treatment charges 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09 Unit net cash costs 1.24 1.44 7.95 1.11 1.24 5.67 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.24 0.22 0.54 0.22 0.21 0.40 Noncash and other costs, net 0.12 0.12 0.01 0.11 0.11 0.07 Total unit costs 1.60 1.78 8.50 1.44 1.56 6.14 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging 0.08 0.08 Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.02 ) (0.08 ) (0.08 ) Gross profit per pound $ 1.74 $ 1.56 $ 7.08 $ 0.94 $ 0.82 $ 4.82 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,082 1,082 1,185 1,185 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)b 25 25 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Reflects molybdenum produced by the North America copper mines. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines increased to $1.24 per pound of copper in 2010, compared with $1.11 per pound in 2009, primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.25 per pound) associated with higher input costs and increased mining and milling activities at certain mines. Partly offsetting these higher costs were higher molybdenum credits ($0.12 per pound) primarily resulting from higher molybdenum prices. Some of our U.S. copper rod customers request a fixed market price instead of the COMEX average price in the month of shipment. We hedge this price exposure in a manner that allows us to receive market prices in the month of shipment while the customer pays the fixed price they requested. Because these contracts previously did not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, revenue adjustments in 2009 reflected unrealized gains on these copper derivative contracts (refer to Note 15 for further discussion). Our operating North America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2010, unit net cash costs for the North America copper mines ranged from a net cost of $0.64 per pound to $2.25 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.24 per pound. Based on current operating plans and assuming achievement of current sales volume 84 Table of Contents and cost estimates and an average price of $15 per pound of molybdenum for 2011, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines would approximate $1.39 per pound of copper in 2011. Unit net cash costs for 2011 are expected to be higher, compared with 2010, primarily because of higher mining rates and input costs. Each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum during the year would have an approximate $0.05 per pound impact on the North America copper mines 2011 unit net cash costs. 2009 2008 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Molyb Product Molyb Method Copper denuma Method Copper denuma Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 2.38 $ 2.38 $ 10.96 $ 3.07 $ 3.07 $ 30.25 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.25 1.15 5.67 1.88 1.63 12.67 By product creditsa (0.23 ) (0.64 ) Treatment charges 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09 Unit net cash costs 1.11 1.24 5.67 1.33 1.72 12.67 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.22 0.21 0.40 0.53 0.46 2.81 Noncash and other costs, net 0.11 0.11 0.07 0.52 0.49 1.34 Total unit costs 1.44 1.56 6.14 2.38 2.67 16.82 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging 0.08 0.08 (0.05 ) (0.05 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.06 ) (0.06 ) (0.05 ) Gross profit per pound $ 0.94 $ 0.82 $ 4.82 $ 0.58 $ 0.29 $ 13.38 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,185 1,185 1,430 1,430 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)b 25 30 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Reflects molybdenum produced by the North America copper mines. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines decreased to $1.11 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.33 per pound in 2008, primarily reflecting a net decrease in site production and delivery costs ($0.63 per pound) associated with cost reduction and efficiency efforts, including the impact of lower operating rates and reduced input costs (principally for energy), partly offset by changes in inventory, which reflects the impact of historical higher cost production on inventory carrying values. The decrease in site production and delivery costs was partly offset by lower molybdenum credits ($0.41 per pound) primarily resulting from lower molybdenum prices and sales volumes. The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the impact of the long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 17 for further discussion). Noncash and other costs for 2008 include charges of $661 million ($0.46 per pound) for LCM inventory adjustments; there were no LCM copper inventory adjustments recorded at the North America copper mines in 2009. Revenue adjustments in 2009 and 2008 primarily reflect unrealized gains (losses) on copper derivative contracts with U.S. copper rod customers (refer to Note 15 for further discussion). South America Mining We operate four copper mines in South America Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile. We own a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an 80 percent interest in both Candelaria and Ojos del Salado and a 51 percent interest in El Abra. All operations in South America are consolidated in our financial statements. South America mining includes open pit and underground mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and SX/EW operations. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine also produces molybdenum concentrates, and the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines also produce gold and silver. Production from our South America mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under long term contracts. Beginning in 2008, our South America mines began selling a portion of their copper concentrate and cathode inventories to Atlantic Copper, an affiliated 85 Table of Contents smelter. Refer to Note 18 for further discussion of our reportable segment (Cerro Verde) in the South America mining division. Operating and Development Activities. We have advanced certain project development activities, including the El Abra sulfide project and the completion of the Cerro Verde mill optimization project. El Abra Sulfide. We are completing construction activities associated with the development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra to extend its mine life by over 10 years. Construction activities for the initial phase of the project are approximately 80 percent complete. Production from the sulfide ore, which is projected to ramp up to approximately 300 million pounds of copper per year, is expected to replace the currently depleting oxide copper production. The aggregate capital investment for this project is expected to total $725 million through 2015, of which approximately $565 million is for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in second quarter 2011. Aggregate project costs of $361 million have been incurred as of December 31, 2010, of which $286 mi llion was incurred during 2010. We are also engaged in studies for a potential large scale milling operation at El Abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. Cerro Verde Expansion. We have completed a project to increase throughput at the Cerro Verde concentrator. This project increased mill throughput from 108,000 metric tons of ore per day to 120,000 metric tons of ore per day resulting in incremental annual production of approximately 30 million pounds of copper. The aggregate capital investment for this project totaled approximately $50 million. In addition, we are completing our evaluation of a large scale concentrator expansion at Cerro Verde. Significant reserve additions in recent years have provided opportunities to significantly expand the existing facilitys capacity. A range of expansion options is being reviewed and the related feasibility study is expected to be completed in second quarter 2011. Candelaria Water Plant. As part of our overall strategy to supply water to the Candelaria mine, we have recently completed construction of a pipeline to bring water from a nearby water treatment facility. In addition, we have started engineering for a desalination plant that will supply all of Candelarias longer term water needs. The plant is expected to be completed by the end of 2012 and the aggregate capital investment for this project is expected to total approximately $280 million. Other Matters. Refer to Note 13 for information on contingencies at our South America mining operations. 86 Table of Contents Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the South America mining operations for the years ended December 31. 2010 2009 2008 Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,354 1,390 1,506 Sales 1,335 1,394 1,521 Average realized price per pound $ 3.68 $ 2.70 $ 2.57 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 93 92 114 Sales 93 90 116 Average realized price per ounce $ 1,263 $ 982 $ 853 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productiona 7 2 3 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 268,800 258,200 279,700 Average copper ore grade (percent) 0.41 0.45 0.45 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 504 565 560 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day) 188,800 181,300 181,400 Average ore grade:b Copper (percent) 0.65 0.66 0.75 Molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent) 90.0 88.9 89.2 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 850 825 946 Gold (thousands of ounces) 93 92 114 Molybdenum (millions of pounds) 7 2 3 a. Reflects molybdenum production from our Cerro Verde copper mine. Sales of molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum division. b. Average ore grades of gold produced at our South America mining operations rounds to less than 0.001 grams per metric ton. 2010 Compared with 2009 Copper sales volumes from our South America mining operations decreased to 1.3 billion pounds in 2010, compared with 1.4 billion in 2009, primarily reflecting anticipated lower ore grades at El Abra. Consolidated sales volumes from our South America mines are expected to approximate 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold in 2011. 2009 Compared with 2008 Copper sales volumes from our South America mining operations decreased to 1.4 billion pounds in 2009, compared with 1.5 billion in 2008, primarily reflecting lower ore grades at Candelaria and downtime for mill maintenance at Cerro Verde. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 87 Table of Contents Gross Profit per Pound of Copper The following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at our South America mining operations for the years ended December 31. These tables reflect unit net cash costs per pound of copper under the by product and co product methods as our South America mining operations also had small amounts of molybdenum, gold and silver sales. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2010 2009 By Product Co Product By Product Co Product Method Method Method Method Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.68 $ 3.68 $ 2.70 $ 2.70 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.21 1.14 1.08 1.02 By product credits (0.21 ) (0.11 ) Treatment charges 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15 Unit net cash costs 1.15 1.29 1.12 1.17 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.19 0.18 0.20 0.19 Noncash and other costs, net 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.02 Total unit costs 1.35 1.48 1.34 1.38 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales (0.01 ) (0.01 ) 0.08 0.08 Other non inventoriable costs (0.04 ) (0.04 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Gross profit per pound $ 2.28 $ 2.15 $ 1.42 $ 1.38 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,335 1,335 1,394 1,394 Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America mining operations increased to $1.15 per pound of copper in 2010, compared with $1.12 per pound in 2009, primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.13 per pound) associated with higher input costs and the impact of higher copper prices on profit sharing programs. Partly offsetting higher site production and delivery costs were higher by product credits ($0.10 per pound) associated with higher molybdenum volumes and prices and higher gold prices. Our South America mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2010, unit net cash costs for the South America mines ranged from $1.04 per pound to $1.38 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.15 per pound. Assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and an average price of $15 per pound of molybdenum and an average price of $1,350 per ounce of gold in 2011, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America mining operations would approximate $1.25 per pound of copper in 2011. Higher unit net cash costs for 2011 primarily reflect higher input costs. 2009 2008 By Product Co Product By Product Co Product Method Method Method Method Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 2.70 $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 2.57 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.08 1.02 1.13 1.07 By product credits (0.11 ) (0.13 ) Treatment charges 0.15 0.15 0.14 0.14 Unit net cash costs 1.12 1.17 1.14 1.21 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.20 0.19 0.33 0.32 Noncash and other costs, net 0.02 0.02 0.07 0.06 Total unit costs 1.34 1.38 1.54 1.59 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.08 0.08 0.15 0.15 Other non inventoriable costs (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Gross profit per pound $ 1.42 $ 1.38 $ 1.16 $ 1.11 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,394 1,394 1,521 1,521 88 Table of Contents Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America mining operations decreased to $1.12 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with $1.14 per pound in 2008, primarily reflecting lower site production and delivery costs ($0.05 per pound) associated with lower input costs (primarily energy). The decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the impact of the long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 17 for further discussion of these impairment charges). Indonesia Mining Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg minerals district. We own 90.64 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, including 9.36 percent owned through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama. PT Freeport Indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver. Substantially all of PT Freeport Indonesias copper concentrates are sold under long term contracts, of which approximately one half is sold to affiliated smelters, Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting (PT Freeport Indonesias 25 percent owned copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia refer to Note 2 for further discussion), and the remainder to other customers. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of our joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc and to Note 14 for further discussion of PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work with the Government of Indonesia. Development Activities. We have several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district, including development of the large scale, high grade underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit. Aggregate capital spending on these projects approximated $288 million for the year 2010 ($228 million net to PT Freeport Indonesia). Over the next five years, aggregate capital spending on these projects is expected to average $600 million per year ($470 million net to PT Freeport Indonesia). Considering the long term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates. The following provides additional information on these projects, including the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, the Grasberg Block Cave and Big Gossan underground mines, the completed expansion of the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground mine and development of the Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) ore body. Common Infrastructure and Grasberg Block Cave. In 2004, PT Freeport Indonesia commenced its Common Infrastructure project to provide access to its large undeveloped underground ore bodies located in the Grasberg minerals district through a tunnel system located approximately 400 meters deeper than its existing underground tunnel system. In addition to providing access to our underground ore bodies, the tunnel system will enable PT Freeport Indonesia to conduct future exploration in prospective areas associated with currently identified ore bodies. The tunnel system has reached the Big Gossan terminal and development of the lower Big Gossan infrastructure is ongoing. We have also advanced development of the Grasberg spur and have completed the tunneling required to reach the Gra sberg underground ore body. Development continues on the Grasberg Block Cave terminal infrastructure and mine access. In 2008, we completed the feasibility study for the development of the Grasberg Block Cave underground mine, which accounts for over one third of our reserves in Indonesia. Production at the Grasberg Block Cave mine is currently scheduled to commence at the end of mining the Grasberg open pit, which is currently expected to continue until mid 2016. The timing of the transition to underground Grasberg Block Cave mine development will continue to be assessed. Aggregate mine development capital for the Grasberg Block Cave mine and associated Common Infrastructure is expected to approximate $3.7 billion (to be incurred between 2008 and 2021), with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $3.4 billion. Aggregate project costs totaling $260 million have been incurred through December 31, 2010, of which $143 million was incurred during 2010. Targeted production rates once the Grasberg Block Cave mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 160,000 metric tons of ore per day. Big Gossan. The Big Gossan underground mine is a high grade deposit located near PT Freeport Indonesias existing milling complex. The Big Gossan mine is being developed as an open stope mine with backfill consisting of mill tailings and cement, an established mining methodology expected to be higher cost than the block cave 89 Table of Contents method used at the DOZ mine. Production, which began in fourth quarter 2010, is designed to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by late 2012 (equal to average annual aggregate incremental production of 125 million pounds of copper and 65,000 ounces of gold, with PT Freeport Indonesia receiving 60 percent of these amounts). The aggregate capital investment for this project is currently estimated at approximately $535 million, with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $500 million. Aggregate project costs of $444 million have been incurred through December 31, 2010, of which $67 million was incurred during 2010. DOZ Expansion. PT Freeport Indonesias further expansion of the DOZ mine to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day was completed in first quarter 2010. The capital cost for this expansion approximated $100 million, with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $60 million. The success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the worlds largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of PT Freeport Indonesias large scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. DMLZ. The DMLZ ore body lies below the DOZ mine at the 2,590 meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the Ertsberg East Skarn system and neighboring Ertsberg porphyry. The DMLZ feasibility study was completed in fourth quarter 2009. We plan to mine the ore body using a block cave method with production beginning in 2015, near completion of mining at the DOZ. Drilling efforts continue to determine the extent of this ore body. We continue to develop the Common Infrastructure project and tunnels from mill level. In 2009, we completed a portion of the spur to the DMLZ mine and reached the edge of the DMLZ terminal and development continued on terminal infrastructure and mine access in 2010. Aggregate mine development capital costs for the DMLZ are ex pected to approximate $2.0 billion (to be incurred from 2009 to 2020), with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $1.2 billion. Aggregate project costs totaling $103 million have been incurred through December 31, 2010, including $78 million during 2010. Targeted production rates once the DMLZ mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. Other Matters. Refer to Note 13 for information on contingencies at our Indonesia mining operations. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31. 2010 2009 2008 Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 1,222 1,412 1,094 Sales 1,214 1,400 1,111 Average realized price per pound $ 3.69 $ 2.65 $ 2.36 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production 1,786 2,568 1,163 Sales 1,765 2,543 1,182 Average realized price per ounce $ 1,271 $ 994 $ 861 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day): a Grasberg open pit 149,800 166,300 129,800 DOZ underground mine 79,600 72,000 63,100 Big Gossan underground mine 800 Total 230,200 238,300 192,900 Average ore grade: Copper (percent) 0.85 0.98 0.83 Gold (grams per metric ton) 0.90 1.30 0.66 Recovery rates (percent): Copper 88.9 90.6 90.1 Gold 81.7 83.7 79.9 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds) 1,330 1,641 1,109 Gold (thousands of ounces) 1,964 2,984 1,163 a. Amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at PT Freeport Indonesias mill facilities from each producing mine. 90 Table of Contents 2010 Compared with 2009 At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold. PT Freeport Indonesias share of sales decreased to 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold in 2010, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.5 million ounces of gold in 2009. Anticipated changes in ore grades throughout the year resulted in significant variability in quarterly volumes during 2010. Lower copper and gold sales volumes in 2010 primarily reflect mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first half of 2010. We expect to mine in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2011. As a result, PT Freeport Indonesias projected sales of 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 1.3 million ounces of gold for 2011 are lower than 2010 volumes. Ore grades and copper and gold sales volumes are expected to be higher in the second half of 2011, compared with the first half, with approximately 53 percent of copper and 57 percent of gold expected in the second half. 2009 Compared with 2008 PT Freeport Indonesias share of sales increased to 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.5 million ounces of gold in 2009, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold in 2008, as a result of mining in a higher grade section of the Grasberg open pit during 2009, including accelerated mining of a higher grade section that was previously scheduled to be mined in future periods. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Copper/per Ounce of Gold The following tables summarize the unit net cash (credits) costs and gross profit per pound of copper and per ounce of gold at our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31. Refer to Production Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash (credits) costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2010 2009 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Product Method Copper Gold Method Copper Gold Revenues, after adjustments $ 3.69 $ 3.69 $ 1,271 $ 2.65 $ 2.65 $ 994 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.53 1.01 347 1.05 0.62 232 Gold and silver credits (1.92 ) (1.86 ) Treatment charges 0.22 0.15 50 0.22 0.13 49 Royalty on metals 0.13 0.08 29 0.10 0.06 23 Unit net cash (credits) costs (0.04 ) 1.24 426 (0.49 ) 0.81 304 Depreciation and amortization 0.21 0.14 48 0.20 0.11 43 Noncash and other costs, net 0.04 0.02 9 0.03 0.02 6 Total unit (credits) costs 0.21 1.40 483 (0.26 ) 0.94 353 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales (0.01 ) (0.01 ) 1 0.04 0.04 2 PT Smelting intercompany profit (0.03 ) (0.02 ) (8 ) (0.04 ) (0.02 ) (9 ) Gross profit per pound/ounce $ 3.44 $ 2.26 $ 781 $ 2.91 $ 1.73 $ 634 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,214 1,214 1,400 1,400 Gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,765 2,543 Because of the fixed nature of a large portion of PT Freeport Indonesias costs, unit costs vary significantly from period to period depending on volumes of copper and gold sold during the period. Unit net cash costs (net of gold 91 Table of Contents and silver credits) increased to a net credit of $0.04 per pound of copper in 2010, compared with a net credit of $0.49 per pound in 2009, reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.48 per pound) primarily associated with higher input costs (including materials, labor and energy), higher maintenance and support costs and higher cost sharing under joint venture arrangements. Partly offsetting higher site production and delivery costs were higher gold credits ($0.06 per pound) associated with higher gold prices. Treatment charges vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper, and royalties vary with the volume of metals sold and the prices of copper and gold. Projected lower copper and gold volumes for 2011 and the effect of higher input costs are expected to result in an increase in PT Freeport Indonesias unit net cash costs. Assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, and an average gold price of $1,350 per ounce in 2011, we estimate that average unit net cash costs for PT Freeport Indonesia (net of gold and silver credits) would approximate $0.60 per pound of copper in 2011. Each $50 per ounce change in average gold prices during the year would have an approximate $0.065 per pound impact on PT Freeport Indonesias 2011 unit net cash costs. Quarterly unit net cash costs will vary significantly with variations in quarterly metal sales volumes, and unit net cash costs are expected to be higher in the first half of 2011 compared with the second half. 2009 2008 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method Product Product Method Copper Gold Method Copper Gold Revenues, after adjustments $ 2.65 $ 2.65 $ 994 $ 2.36 $ 2.36 $ 861 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.05 0.62 232 1.59 1.13 413 Gold and silver credits (1.86 ) (0.97 ) Treatment charges 0.22 0.13 49 0.24 0.17 63 Royalty on metals 0.10 0.06 23 0.10 0.07 26 Unit net cash (credits) costs (0.49 ) 0.81 304 0.96 1.37 502 Depreciation and amortization 0.20 0.11 43 0.20 0.14 52 Noncash and other costs, net 0.03 0.02 6 0.03 0.02 7 Total unit (credits) costs (0.26 ) 0.94 353 1.19 1.53 561 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 0.04 0.04 2 0.09 0.09 6 PT Smelting intercompany profit (0.04 ) (0.02 ) (9 ) 0.01 0.01 4 Gross profit per pound/ounce $ 2.91 $ 1.73 $ 634 $ 1.27 $ 0.93 $ 310 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,400 1,400 1,111 1,111 Gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 2,543 1,182 Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) decreased to a net credit of $0.49 per pound of copper in 2009, compared with a net cost of $0.96 per pound in 2008, reflecting higher gold and silver credits ($0.89 per pound) resulting from higher gold sales volumes and prices in 2009, and lower site production and delivery costs ($0.54 per pound) primarily associated with higher copper sales volumes and lower commodity based input costs. Africa Mining Africa mining, which is consolidated in our financial statements, includes the Tenke copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the DRC. The Tenke mine includes open pit mining, leaching and SX/EW operations. Copper production from the Tenke mine is sold as copper cathode. In addition to copper, the Tenke mine produces cobalt hydroxide. In October 2010, the government of the DRC announced the conclusion of the review of TFMs contracts, and confirmed that TFMs existing mining contracts are in good standing and acknowledged the rights and benefits granted under those contracts. In connection with the review, TFM made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts. In December 2010, the addenda to TFMs Amended and Restated Mining Convention and Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement were signed by the parties and are pending a Presidential Decree. TFMs existing mining contracts will be in effect until the Presidential Decree is obtained. After giving effect to the amendments and obtaining approval of the modification to TFMs bylaws, our effective ownership interest in the project will be 56 .0 percent, compared to our previous ownership interest of 57.75 percent (refer to Note 14 for further discussion). 92 Table of Contents Operating and Development Activities. Construction activities for the initial development project are complete, and copper production commenced in late March 2009, with targeted copper production rates achieved in September 2009. The cobalt and sulphuric acid plants were commissioned in third quarter 2009. We continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at Tenke. These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion. We are planning a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and increasing capacity. As part of the second phase, a range of near term expansion options are being considered, which have the potential of adding 100 million to 200 million pounds of copper per year over the next two to three years. We expect production volumes from the project to expand significantly over time. Future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including economic and market conditions and the business and investment climate in the DRC. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Africa mining operations for the years ended December 31. 2010 2009a Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 265 154 Sales 262 130 Average realized price per poundb $ 3.45 $ 2.85 Cobalt (millions of recoverable pounds) Production 20 N/A c Sales 20 N/A c Average realized price per pound $ 10.95 N/A c Ore milled (metric tons per day) 10,300 7,300 Average ore grade (percent): Copper 3.51 3.69 Cobalt 0.40 N/A c Copper recovery rate (percent) 91.4 92.1 a. Results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in March 2009. b. Includes adjustments for point of sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. c. Comparative results for the 2009 periods have not been included as start up activities were still under way. Copper sales volumes from the Tenke mine increased to 262 million pounds of copper in 2010, compared with 130 million pounds of copper in 2009, reflecting higher operating rates and a full year of production in 2010. Consolidated sales volumes from Tenke are expected to approximate 285 million pounds of copper and over 20 million pounds of cobalt in 2011. The milling facilities at Tenke, which were designed to produce at a capacity rate of 8,000 metric tons of ore per day, continue to perform above capacity, with 2010 mill throughput averaging 10,300 metric tons of ore per day. Additionally, Tenke has procured additional equipment, which is enabling additional high grade material to be mined and processed in 2011. As a result of these enhancements to the mine plan and using an expected mill throughput rate of 10,000 metric tons of ore per day, we estimate the average annual copper production at Tenke will increase from the initial rate of 250 million pounds of copper per year to approximately 290 million pounds of copper. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 93 Table of Contents Gross Profit per Pound of Copper/per Pound of Cobalt The following table summarizes the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of copper and cobalt at our Africa mining operations for the year ended December 31. Comparative information for the 2009 and 2008 periods have not been included as start up activities were still under way. Refer to Production Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2010 By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Cobalt Revenues, excluding adjustmentsa $ 3.45 $ 3.45 $ 10.95 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.40 1.23 5.78 Cobalt credits (0.58 )b Royalty on metals 0.08 0.06 0.19 Unit net cash costs 0.90 1.29 5.97 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.49 0.41 1.03 Noncash and other costs, net 0.11 0.10 0.23 Total unit costs 1.50 1.80 7.23 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.18 Other non inventoriable costs (0.08 ) (0.07 ) (0.16 ) Gross profit per pound $ 1.87 $ 1.58 $ 3.74 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 262 262 Cobalt sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 20 a. Includes adjustments for point of sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. Net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. Unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) for Tenke averaged $0.90 per pound of copper in 2010. Assuming achievement of current sales volumes, our revised cost estimates and an average cobalt price of $14 per pound for 2011, we estimate that average unit net cash costs for Tenke (net of cobalt credits) would approximate $0.85 per pound of copper in 2011. Each $2 per pound change in the average price of cobalt would have an approximate $0.09 per pound impact on Tenkes unit net cash costs. Molybdenum Our Molybdenum operations are an integrated producer of molybdenum, with mining, sulfide ore concentrating, roasting and processing facilities that produce high purity, molybdenum based chemicals, molybdenum metal powder and metallurgical products, which are sold to customers around the world, and includes the wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities. The Henderson underground mine produces high purity, chemical grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value added molybdenum chemical products. The Molybdenum operations also include the wholly owned Climax molybdenum mine in Colorado, for which construction activities in preparation to restart mining activities are ongoing; a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from our Henderson mine and from certai n of our North and South America mines that produce molybdenum; and related conversion facilities that, at times, roast and or process material on a toll basis for third parties. Toll arrangements require the tolling customer to deliver appropriate molybdenum bearing material to our facilities for processing into a product that is returned to the customer, who pays us for processing their material into the specified products. Development Activities. Construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine are continuing, and recent activities include completion of concrete foundations for various equipment installations and commencement of the ball mill shell assembly. We plan to advance construction and conduct mine preparation activities during 2011. The timing for start up of mining and milling activities is dependent on market conditions. We believe that this project is one of the most attractive primary molybdenum development projects in the world, with large scale production capacity, attractive cash costs and future growth options. The Climax molybdenum mine would have an initial annual design capacity of 30 million pounds with significant expansion options. Total estimated costs for the proj ect approximate $700 million, of which approximately $254 million has been incurred ($54 million in 2010). 94 Table of Contents Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the Molybdenum operations for the years ended December 31. 2010 2009 2008 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productiona 40 27 40 Sales, excluding purchasesb 67 58 71 Average realized price per pound $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day) 22,900 14,900 24,100 Average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.25 0.25 0.23 Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 40 27 40 a. Reflects production at the Henderson molybdenum mine. b. Includes sales of molybdenum produced at certain of our North and South America mines. As a result of improved market conditions, Henderson operated at approximately 90 percent capacity during 2010, compared with 60 percent capacity during most of 2009. Molybdenum sales volumes increased to 67 million pounds in 2010, compared with 58 million pounds in 2009, reflecting improved demand in the chemicals sector. Molybdenum sales volumes are expected to approximate 70 million pounds for the year 2011, of which approximately 45 million pounds represents production from our North and South America mines. Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of molybdenum is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Gross Profit per Pound of Molybdenum The following table summarizes the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of molybdenum at our Henderson molybdenum mine for the years ended December 31. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2010 2009 2008 Revenues $ 15.89 $ 12.78 $ 29.94 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 4.82 5.43 5.35 Treatment charges and other 1.08 1.09 0.67 Unit net cash costs 5.90 6.52 6.02 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.83 0.98 4.25 Noncash and other costs, net 0.03 0.04 0.19 a Total unit costs 6.76 7.54 10.46 Gross profit per poundb $ 9.13 $ 5.24 $ 19.48 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)c 40 27 40 a. Includes charges of $0.03 per pound in 2008 associated with LCM inventory adjustments. b. Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum division includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. c. Reflects molybdenum produced by the Henderson molybdenum mine. Hendersons unit net cash costs were $5.90 per pound of molybdenum in 2010, $6.52 per pound in 2009 and $6.02 per pound in 2008. Hendersons unit net cash costs benefited in 2010 from higher production volumes, 95 Table of Contents partly offset by higher mining costs. Higher unit net cash costs in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected lower production volumes, partly offset by the impact of cost reduction efforts. Assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate that the 2011 average unit net cash costs for Henderson would approximate $7.20 per pound of molybdenum, which are higher than 2010 primarily because of anticipated lower volumes from Henderson. The decrease in Hendersons depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2009, compared with 2008, reflects the impact of long lived asset impairment charges recognized in fourth quarter 2008 (refer to Note 17 for further discussion). Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned subsidiary located in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes. Our Indonesia mining operation sells copper concentrate and our South America mining operations sell copper concentrate and copper cathode to Atlantic Copper. Through downstream integration, we are assured placement of a significant portion of our concentrate production. During 2010, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 28 percent of its concentrate requirements from our Indonesia mining operation and approximately 25 percent from our South America mining operations. Smelting and refining charges consist of a base rate and, in certain contracts, price participation based on copper prices. Treatment charges for smelting and refining copper concentrates represent a cost to our Indonesia and our South America mining operations, and income to Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting, our 25 percent owned smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. Thus, higher treatment and refining charges benefit our smelter operations at Atlantic Copper and adversely affect our mining operations in Indonesia and South America. Our North America copper mines are not significantly affected by changes in treatment and refining charges because these operations are fully integrated with our Miami smelter located in Arizona. Atlantic Copper had operating losses of $37 million in 2010 and $56 million in 2009, compared with operating income of $10 million in 2008. The improvement in Atlantic Coppers operating results in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily reflected higher sulphuric acid and gold revenues associated with higher prices. Atlantic Coppers operating results in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflect lower sulphuric acid revenues resulting from lower prices. We defer recognizing profits on sales from our Indonesia and our South America mining operations to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of our Indonesia mining sales to PT Smelting until final sales to third parties occur. Our net deferred profits on our Indonesia and South America mining operations inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income after taxes and noncontrolling interests totaled $271 million at December 31, 2010. Changes in these net deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in net reductions to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders totaling $67 million ($0.07 per share) in 2010, compared with net additions of $21 million ($0.02 per share) in 2009 and $12 million ($0.02 per share) in 2008. Quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in prices will result in variability in our net deferred profits and quarterly earnings. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. As a result of weak economic conditions, we revised our operating plans at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 to protect liquidity while preserving our large mineral resources and growth options for the longer term (refer to Note 17 for further discussion). However, strong operating performance and improved copper prices since the end of 2008 have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position, reduce debt and reinstate cash dividends to shareholders, while maintaining our future growth opportunities. In addition, we resumed certain project development activities at our mining operations (refer to Operations for further d iscussion). We view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the worlds economy, and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. Based on current mine plans and subject to future copper, gold and molybdenum prices, we expect estimated operating cash flows for the year 2011 to be greater than our budgeted capital expenditures, expected debt payments, dividends, noncontrolling interest distributions and other cash requirements. 96 Table of Contents Cash and Cash Equivalents At December 31, 2010, we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $3.7 billion. The following table reflects the U.S. and international components of consolidated cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in billions): 2010 2009 Cash at domestic companiesa $ 1.9 $ 1.5 Cash at international operations 1.8 1.2 Total consolidated cash and cash equivalents 3.7 2.7 Less: Noncontrolling interests share (0.4 ) (0.3 ) Cash, net of noncontrolling interests share 3.3 2.4 Less: Withholding taxes and other (0.2 ) (0.2 ) Net cash available to FCX $ 3.1 $ 2.2 a. Includes cash at our parent company and North America operations. Operating Activities During 2010, we generated operating cash flows totaling $6.3 billion, net of $834 million for working capital uses. Operating cash flows in 2009 totaled $4.4 billion, net of $770 million for working capital uses, which included approximately $600 million related to settlement of final pricing with customers on 2008 provisionally priced copper sales. Operating cash flows in 2008 totaled $3.4 billion, net of $965 million for working capital uses, which included $598 million to settle the 2007 copper price protection program contract. Our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. Higher operating cash flows for 2010, compared with 2009, primarily reflected higher copper and gold price realizations. Higher operating cash flows for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected lower operating costs and higher gold sales volumes and price realizations. Refer to Outlook for further discussion of projected 2011 operating cash flows. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $1.4 billion in 2010 (including $0.7 billion for major projects), $1.6 billion in 2009 (including $1.0 billion for major projects and the Twin Buttes property acquisition) and $2.7 billion in 2008 (including $1.6 billion for major projects). The decrease in capital expenditures in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily reflected lower capital spending for the initial Tenke development project for which construction activities were substantially complete by mid 2009, partly offset by higher spending associated with underground development projects at Grasberg and the sulfide ore project at El Abra. The decrease in capital expenditures in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected the effects o f the decision to defer capital spending for several projects, lower capital spending for the initial Tenke development project and reduced spending for sustaining capital. Capital expenditures for the year 2011 are expected to approximate $2.5 billion (including $1.3 billion for major projects), primarily associated with underground development activities at Grasberg, construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine and completion of the initial phase of the sulfide ore project at El Abra. In addition, we are considering additional investments at several of our sites. Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors. Refer to Operations for further discussion. Investment in McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR). In December 2010, we completed the purchase of 500,000 shares of MMRs 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock (the Preferred Stock) for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million. The Preferred Stock is initially convertible into 62.5 shares of MMR common stock per share of Preferred Stock (an aggregate of 31.25 million shares or approximately 14 percent of MMRs common stock on a fully converted basis at December 31, 2010), or an initial conversion price of $16 per share of MMR common stock. Other Investing Activities. During 2008, our global reclamation and remediation trusts decreased by $430 million resulting primarily from reimbursement of previously incurred costs for reclamation and environmental activities. 97 Table of Contents Financing Activities Debt and Equity Transactions. Total debt approximated $4.8 billion at December 31, 2010, $6.3 billion at December 31, 2009, and $7.4 billion at December 31, 2008. Since January 1, 2009, we have repaid approximately $2.6 billion in debt, resulting in estimated annual interest savings of $167 million based on current interest rates. During 2010, we redeemed all of our $1 billion Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2015 for which holders received 101 percent of the principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we made open market purchases of $565 million of our senior notes at a cost of $621 million. During 2009, we redeemed $340 million of our 6% Senior Notes for $352 million (plus accrued and unpaid interest), and also made open market purchases of $387 million of our senior notes for $416 million. In February 2008, we made open market purchases of $33 million of our 9% Senior Notes for $46 million. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion of these debt repayment transactions. We have no significant debt maturities in the near term; however, we may consider opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities. Our 8.375% Senior Notes are redeemable in whole or in part, at our option, at make whole redemption prices prior to April 1, 2012, and afterwards at stated redemption prices. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion of these notes. We have revolving credit facilities available until March 19, 2012, which are composed of (i) a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility available to FCX and (ii) a $0.5 billion revolving credit facility available to both FCX and PT Freeport Indonesia. Interest on the revolving credit facilities accrues at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.00 percent, subject to an increase or decrease in the interest rate margin based on the credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investors Service. At December 31, 2010, we had no borrowings and $43 million of letters of credit issued under the facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ($957 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). The revolving credit facilities contain restrictions on the am ount available for dividend payments, purchases of our common stock and certain debt prepayments. However, these restrictions do not apply as long as availability under the revolvers plus domestic cash exceeds $750 million. At December 31, 2010, we had availability under the revolvers plus available domestic cash (as defined by the revolving credit facility) of approximately $4.1 billion. In addition, the indenture governing certain of our senior notes contains restrictions on incurring debt, making restricted payments and selling assets. As a result of the investment grade ratings on these notes, these covenants are currently suspended. However, to the extent the rating is downgraded below investment grade by both Standard & Poors Rating Services and Moodys Investors Service, the covenants would again become effective. In February 2009, we completed a public offering of 53.6 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $14.00 per share, which generated gross proceeds of $750 million (net proceeds of approximately $740 million after fees and expenses), which were used for general corporate purposes. We have an open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. During 2008, on a pre split basis, we purchased 6.3 million shares of our common stock for $500 million ($79.15 per share average) under our open market share purchase program; however, because of financial market turmoil and the declines in copper and molybdenum prices, in September 2008, we suspended purchases of our common stock under the program. We made no purchases under this program during 2009 or 2010. There are 23.7 million shares remaining under this program, and the timing of future purchases of our common stock is dependent on many factors, including our operating results; cash flows and financial position; copper, gold and molybdenum prices; the price of our common shares; and general economic and market conditions. Dividends. The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors (the Board). The amount of cash dividends on our common stock is dependent upon our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Because of the deterioration in copper and molybdenum prices and in general economic conditions, in December 2008, the Board suspended the cash dividend on our common stock; accordingly, there were no common stock dividends paid in 2009, compared with $693 million ($0.90625 per share) in 2008. In October 2009, the Board reinstated a cash dividend on our common stock at an annual rate of $0.30 per share ($0.075 per share quarterly). In April 2010, the Board authorized an increase in the cash 98 Table of Contents dividend to an annual rate of $0.60 per share ($0.15 per share quarterly) and in October 2010, the Board authorized another increase in the cash dividend to an annual rate of $1.00 per share ($0.25 per share quarterly). In December 2010, the Board also declared a supplemental common stock dividend of $0.50 per share, which was paid on December 30, 2010. For 2010, common stock dividends paid totaled $885 million, which included $472 million for the supplemental dividend paid on December 30, 2010. On December 29, 2010, the Board declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share, which was paid on February 1, 2011, to common shareholders of record at the close of business on January 15, 2011. Based on outstanding common shares of 945 million at December 31, 2010, at current levels our estimated common stock dividend for 2011 approximates $945 million. In December 2010, the Board declared a two for one split of our common stock, which was effected on February 1, 2011. On February 2, 2011, our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on a split adjusted basis. As discussed previously, all common share and per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the two for one stock split, unless otherwise noted. Refer to Note 11 for further discussion. Preferred stock dividends paid totaled $95 million in 2010 representing dividends on our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Preferred stock dividends totaled $229 million in 2009 and $255 million in 2008 representing dividends on our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock and 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. During 2010, our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock converted into 78.9 million shares of our common stock, and in 2009, we redeemed our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock in exchange for 35.8 million shares of our common stock (refer to Note 11 for further discussion). As a result of these transactions, we no longer have requirements to pay preferred stock dividends. Cash dividends and distributions paid to noncontrolling interests totaled $816 million in 2010, $535 million in 2009 and $730 million in 2008, reflecting dividends and distributions paid to the noncontrolling interest owners of PT Freeport Indonesia and our South America mines. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We have contractual and other long term obligations, including debt maturities, which we expect to fund with projected operating cash flows, availability under our revolving credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. A summary of these various obligations at December 31, 2010, follows (in millions): 2012 to 2014 to Total 2011 2013 2015 Thereafter Debt maturities $ 4,755 $ 95 $ 2 $ 1,081 $ 3,577 Scheduled interest payment obligationsa 2,728 381 755 711 881 Reclamation and environmental obligationsb 4,881 207 287 211 4,176 Take or pay contractsc 2,831 2,026 650 37 118 Operating lease obligations 183 33 39 27 84 Atlantic Copper obligation to insurance companyd 58 10 19 19 10 PT Freeport Indonesia mine closure and reclamation funde 19 2 1 1 15 Totalf $ 15,455 $ 2,754 $ 1,753 $ 2,087 $ 8,861 a. Scheduled interest payment obligations were calculated using stated coupon rates for fixed rate debt and interest rates applicable at December 31, 2010, for variable rate debt. b. Represents estimated cash payments, on an undiscounted and unescalated basis, associated with reclamation and environmental activities. The timing and the amount of these payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities and as actual spending occurs. Refer to Note 13 for additional discussion of environmental and reclamation matters. c. Represents contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services that are defined by us as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. Take or pay contracts primarily comprise the procurement of copper concentrates and cathodes ($2.1 billion), transportation ($201 million), electricity ($144 million) and oxygen ($143 million). Some of our take or pay contracts are settled based on the prevailing market rate for the service or commodity purchased, and in some cases, the amount of the actual obligation may change over time because of market conditions. Obligations for copper concentrates and cathodes provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at market based prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper and the North America copper mines. Transportation obligations are primarily for South America contracte d ocean freight rates and for North America natural gas transportation. Electricity obligations are primarily for contractual minimum demand at the South America and Tenke mines. Oxygen obligations provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at fixed prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper. 99 Table of Contents d. In August 2002, Atlantic Copper complied with Spanish legislation by agreeing to fund 7.2 million euros annually for 15 years to an approved insurance company for an estimated 72 million euro contractual obligation to supplement amounts paid to certain retired employees. Atlantic Copper had $48 million recorded for this obligation at December 31, 2010. e. Represents PT Freeport Indonesias commitments to contribute amounts to a cash fund designed to accumulate at least $100 million, including interest, by the end of our Indonesia mining activities to pay for mine closure and reclamation. f. This table excludes certain other obligations in our consolidated balance sheets, including estimated funding for pension obligations as the funding may vary from year to year based on changes in the fair value of plan assets and actuarial assumptions, and accrued liabilities totaling $133 million that relate to unrecognized tax benefits where the timing of settlement is not determinable. This table also excludes purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services, as purchase orders typically represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. In addition to our debt maturities and other contractual obligations, we have other commitments, which we expect to fund with projected operating cash flows, available credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. These include (i) PT Freeport Indonesias commitment to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development, (ii) Cerro Verdes local mining fund contributions equal to 3.75 percent of after tax profits (refer to Note 14), (iii) Tenkes commitment to provide 0.3 percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations and (iv) other commercial commitments, including standby letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees (ref er to Notes 13 and 14 for further discussion). ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS Environmental The cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. We had $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010, and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2009, recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for environmental obligations attributed to CERCLA or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. Refer to Note 13 for further information about environmental regulation, including significant environmental matters. During 2010, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners shares) of $372 million for programs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations, compared to $289 million in 2009 and $377 million in 2008. The increase in environmental costs for 2010, compared with 2009, primarily related to settlement of legal proceedings (see Note 13 for further discussion). The decrease in environmental capital spending for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to completion of large projects in 2008, combined with reduced discretionary spending and extended project timelines. For 2011, we expect to incur approximately $460 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our ove rall 2011 operating budget and primarily relates to ongoing environmental compliance. Asset Retirement Obligations We recognize AROs as liabilities when incurred, with the initial measurement at fair value. These liabilities, which are initially estimated based on discounted cash flow estimates, are accreted to full value over time through charges to income. Reclamation costs for future disturbances are recorded as an ARO in the period of disturbance. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible, long lived assets. We had recorded AROs totaling $856 million at December 31, 2010, and $731 million at December 31, 2009, in current and long term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. Spending on AROs totaled $38 million in 2010, $28 million in 2009 and $91 million in 2008. The decrease in ARO spending for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily related to extended project timelin es that resulted in reduced required expenditures for 2009. For 2011, we expect to incur approximately $51 million for aggregate ARO payments. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. 100 Table of Contents DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS Commodity Price Risk Our consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, molybdenum, gold and other metals by our North and South America mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operations, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Our financial results can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. World market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Because we cannot contro l the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flow. Refer to Outlook for further discussion of projected sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flows for 2011. For 2010, 52 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 26 percent as cathodes and 22 percent as rod (principally from our North America copper mines). Substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME monthly average spot prices. We receive market prices based on prices in the specified future period, which results in price fluctuations recorded through revenues until the date of settlement. We record revenues and invoice customers at the time of shipment based on then current LME prices, which results in an embedded derivative on our provisional priced concentrate and cathode sales that is adjusted to fair value through earnings each period, using the period end for ward prices, until the date of final pricing. To the extent final prices are higher or lower than what was recorded on a provisional basis, an increase or decrease to revenues is recorded each reporting period until the date of final pricing. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from higher prices received for contracts priced at current market rates and also from an increase related to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior years; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. At December 31, 2009, we had provisionally priced copper sales totaling 378 million pounds at our copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average of $3.34 per pound. Consolidated revenues for 2010 include net reductions for adjustments related to these prior year copper sales totaling $24 million ($10 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.01 per share), compared with net additions of $132 million ($61 million to net loss attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.07 per share) in 2009 and $268 million ($114 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders or $0.15 per share) in 2008. At December 31, 2010, we had provisionally priced copper sales totaling 417 million pounds of copper at our copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average price of $4.36 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. We estimate that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the December 31, 2010, provisional price recorded would have a net impact on our 2011 consolidated revenues of approximately $27 million ($13 million to net income attributable to FCX common stockholders). The LME spot copper price closed at $4.50 per pound on February 11, 2011. On limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. We do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future. 101 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs and certain assets and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol and euro. Generally, our results are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Following is a summary of estimated annual payments and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs: 10% Change in Exchange Rate per $1 Exchange Rate at December 31, Estimated Annual Payments (in millions)b 2010 2009 2008 (in local currency) (in millions)a Increase Decrease Indonesia Rupiah 8,990 9,420 10,850 2.8 trillion $ 311 $ (28 ) $ 35 Australian dollar 0.98 1.12 1.43 250 million $ 255 $ (23 ) $ 28 South America Chilean peso 468 506 648 240 billion $ 512 $ (47 ) $ 57 Peruvian nuevo sol 2.81 2.89 3.17 280 million $ 100 $ (9 ) $ 11 Atlantic Copper Euro 0.75 0.69 0.72 100 million $ 134 $ (12 ) $ 15 a. Based on December 31, 2010, exchange rates. b. Reflects the estimated impact on annual operating costs assuming a 10 percent increase or decrease in the exchange rate reported at December 31, 2010. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2010, we had total debt of $4.8 billion, of which approximately 4 percent was variable rate debt with interest rates based on LIBOR or the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR). The table below presents average interest rates for our scheduled maturities of principal for our outstanding debt and the related fair values at December 31, 2010 (in millions, except percentages): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ 85 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1,080 $ 3,415 $ 4,974 Average interest rate 8.7 % 5.8 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 8.2 % 8.3 % 8.3 % Variable rate debt $ 10 $ $ $ $ $ 162 $ 172 Average interest rate 0.8 % 4.0 % 3.8 % NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS We do not expect the impact of recently issued accounting standards to have a significant impact on our future financial statements and disclosures. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Refer to Note 14 for discussion of off balance sheet arrangements. 102 Table of Contents PRODUCT REVENUES AND PRODUCTION COSTS Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. We present gross profit per pound of copper in the following tables using both a by product method and a co product method. We use the by product method in our presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of our revenues are copper revenues, (ii) we mine ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of our costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals we produce, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by our management and the Board to monitor operations. In the co product method presentation below, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change. We show revenue adjustments for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, we have reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock based compensation costs, LCM inventory adjustments, write offs of equipment and or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by product method. Following are presentations under both the by product and co product methods together with reconciliations to amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. 103 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2010 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb Total Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,702 $ 3,702 $ 383 $ 58 $ 4,143 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,621 1,456 195 29 1,680 By product creditsa (382 ) Treatment charges 105 102 3 105 Net cash costs 1,344 1,558 195 32 1,785 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 256 241 13 2 256 Noncash and other costs, net 131 131 131 Total costs 1,731 1,930 208 34 2,172 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (87 ) (86 ) (1 ) (87 ) Gross profit $ 1,882 $ 1,684 $ 174 $ 24 $ 1,882 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,143 $ 1,680 $ 256 Treatment charges per above N/A 105 N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 131 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging per above (2 ) N/A N/A Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs per above N/A 87 N/A Eliminations and other (5 ) 12 17 North America copper mines 4,136 2,015 273 South America mining 4,991 1,678 250 Indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 Africa mining 1,106 488 128 Molybdenum 1,205 784 51 Rod & Refining 4,470 4,443 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,794 ) (5,428 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,354 $ 1,036 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. 104 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb Total Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 2,823 $ 2,823 $ 274 $ 45 $ 3,142 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,483 1,364 142 22 1,528 By product creditsa (274 ) Treatment charges 102 100 2 102 Net cash costs 1,311 1,464 142 24 1,630 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 264 251 10 3 264 Noncash and other costs, net 129 127 2 129 Total costs 1,704 1,842 154 27 2,023 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging 92 92 92 Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (100 ) (100 ) (100 ) Gross profit $ 1,111 $ 973 $ 120 $ 18 $ 1,111 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,142 $ 1,528 $ 264 Treatment charges per above N/A 102 N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 129 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging per above 92 N/A N/A Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs per above N/A 100 N/A Eliminations and other 1 52 16 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America mining 3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 c 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 c $ 1,014 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 105 Table of Contents North America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb Total Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,382 $ 4,382 $ 892 $ 72 $ 5,346 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,681 2,326 374 35 2,735 By product creditsa (910 ) Treatment charges 134 130 4 134 Net cash costs 1,905 2,456 374 39 2,869 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 753 664 83 6 753 Noncash and other costs, net 743 c 701 39 3 743 Total costs 3,401 3,821 496 48 4,365 Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging (71 ) (71 ) (71 ) Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs (85 ) (83 ) (2 ) (85 ) Gross profit $ 825 $ 407 $ 394 $ 24 $ 825 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 5,346 $ 2,735 $ 753 Treatment charges per above N/A 134 N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 743 c N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for hedging per above (71 ) N/A N/A Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs per above N/A 85 N/A Eliminations and other (10 ) 11 17 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America mining 4,166 1,854 511 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 d $ 1,782 a. Molybdenum by product credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita. b. Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. Includes charges totaling $661 million for LCM inventory adjustments. d. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 106 Table of Contents South America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2010 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other a Total Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,911 $ 4,911 $ 299 $ 5,210 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,613 1,521 110 1,631 By product credits (281 ) Treatment charges 207 207 207 Net cash costs 1,539 1,728 110 1,838 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 249 237 12 249 Noncash and other costs, net 19 18 1 19 Total costs 1,807 1,983 123 2,106 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales (14 ) (14 ) (14 ) Other non inventoriable costs (44 ) (40 ) (4 ) (44 ) Gross profit $ 3,046 $ 2,874 $ 172 $ 3,046 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 5,210 $ 1,631 $ 249 Treatment charges per above (207 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 19 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales per above (14 ) N/A N/A Other non inventoriable costs per above N/A 44 N/A Eliminations and other 2 (16 ) 1 South America mining 4,991 1,678 250 North America copper mines 4,136 2,015 273 Indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 Africa mining 1,106 488 128 Molybdenum 1,205 784 51 Rod & Refining 4,470 4,443 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,794 ) (5,428 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,354 $ 1,036 a. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. 107 Table of Contents South America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other a Total Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,768 $ 3,768 $ 167 $ 3,935 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,512 1,429 91 1,520 By product credits (159 ) Treatment charges 206 206 206 Net cash costs 1,559 1,635 91 1,726 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 275 267 8 275 Noncash and other costs, net 28 28 28 Total costs 1,862 1,930 99 2,029 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 109 109 109 Other non inventoriable costs (31 ) (26 ) (5 ) (31 ) Gross profit $ 1,984 $ 1,921 $ 63 $ 1,984 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,935 $ 1,520 $ 275 Treatment charges per above (206 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 28 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales per above 109 N/A N/A Other non inventoriable costs per above N/A 31 N/A Eliminations and other 1 (16 ) South America mining 3,839 1,563 275 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 b 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 b $ 1,014 a. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. b. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 108 Table of Contents South America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Other a Total Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,910 $ 3,910 $ 216 $ 4,126 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,711 1,631 102 1,733 By product credits (194 ) Treatment charges 211 211 211 Net cash costs 1,728 1,842 102 1,944 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 508 483 25 508 Noncash and other costs, net 103 b 100 3 103 Total costs 2,339 2,425 130 2,555 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 230 230 230 Other non inventoriable costs (37 ) (34 ) (3 ) (37 ) Gross profit $ 1,764 $ 1,681 $ 83 $ 1,764 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 4,126 $ 1,733 $ 508 Treatment charges per above (211 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 103 b N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales per above 230 N/A N/A Other non inventoriable costs per above N/A 37 N/A Eliminations and other 21 (19 ) 3 South America mining 4,166 1,854 511 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 c $ 1,782 a. Includes gold, silver and molybdenum product revenues and production costs. b. Includes charges totaling $10 million for LCM inventory adjustments. c. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 109 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2010 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,475 $ 4,475 $ 2,243 $ 90 $ 6,808 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,856 1,220 612 24 1,856 Gold and silver credits (2,334 ) Treatment charges 270 178 89 3 270 Royalty on metals 156 102 51 3 156 Net cash (credits) costs (52 ) 1,500 752 30 2,282 Depreciation and amortization 257 169 85 3 257 Noncash and other costs, net 48 31 16 1 48 Total costs 253 1,700 853 34 2,587 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales (6 ) (6 ) 1 (5 ) PT Smelting intercompany profit (42 ) (28 ) (13 ) (1 ) (42 ) Gross profit $ 4,174 $ 2,741 $ 1,378 $ 55 $ 4,174 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 6,808 $ 1,856 $ 257 Treatment charges per above (270 ) N/A N/A Royalty on metals per above (156 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 48 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales per above (5 ) N/A N/A Indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 North America copper mines 4,136 2,015 273 South America mining 4,991 1,678 250 Africa mining 1,106 488 128 Molybdenum 1,205 784 51 Rod & Refining 4,470 4,443 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,794 ) (5,428 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,354 $ 1,036 110 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2009 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,708 $ 3,708 $ 2,527 $ 73 $ 6,308 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,468 862 589 17 1,468 Gold and silver credits (2,606 ) Treatment charges 312 183 125 4 312 Royalty on metals 147 86 59 2 147 Net cash (credits) costs (679 ) 1,131 773 23 1,927 Depreciation and amortization 275 162 110 3 275 Noncash and other costs, net 37 22 15 37 Total (credits) costs (367 ) 1,315 898 26 2,239 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 53 53 5 1 59 PT Smelting intercompany profit (54 ) (32 ) (21 ) (1 ) (54 ) Gross profit $ 4,074 $ 2,414 $ 1,613 $ 47 $ 4,074 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 6,308 $ 1,468 $ 275 Treatment charges per above (312 ) N/A N/A Royalty on metals per above (147 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 37 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales per above 59 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America mining 3,839 1,563 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Molybdenum 847 660 a 49 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 a $ 1,014 a. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 111 Table of Contents Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued) Year Ended December 31, 2008 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Gold Silver Total Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 2,628 $ 2,628 $ 1,018 $ 49 $ 3,695 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,762 1,252 487 23 1,762 Gold and silver credits (1,075 ) Treatment charges 268 190 74 4 268 Royalty on metals 113 80 31 2 113 Net cash costs 1,068 1,522 592 29 2,143 Depreciation and amortization 222 158 61 3 222 Noncash and other costs, net 30 22 8 30 Total costs 1,320 1,702 661 32 2,395 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 90 90 7 1 98 PT Smelting intercompany profit 17 12 5 17 Gross profit $ 1,415 $ 1,028 $ 369 $ 18 $ 1,415 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 3,695 $ 1,762 $ 222 Treatment charges per above (268 ) N/A N/A Royalty on metals per above (113 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 30 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales per above 98 N/A N/A Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America mining 4,166 1,854 511 Africa mining 16 6 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 a $ 1,782 a. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. 112 Table of Contents Africa Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs Year Ended December 31, 2010 By Product Co Product Method (In millions) Method Copper Cobalt Total Revenues, excluding adjustmentsa $ 904 $ 904 $ 218 $ 1,122 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 366 323 115 438 Cobalt creditsb (150 ) Royalty on metals 20 16 4 20 Net cash costs 236 339 119 458 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 128 107 21 128 Noncash and other costs, net 30 26 4 30 Total costs 394 472 144 616 Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales 4 4 Other non inventoriable costs (20 ) (17 ) (3 ) (20 ) Gross profit $ 490 $ 415 $ 75 $ 490 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported (In millions) Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above $ 1,122 $ 438 $ 128 Royalty on metals per above (20 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 30 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior year open sales per above 4 N/A N/A Other non inventoriable costs per above N/A 20 N/A Africa mining 1,106 488 128 North America copper mines 4,136 2,015 273 South America mining 4,991 1,678 250 Indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 Molybdenum 1,205 784 51 Rod & Refining 4,470 4,443 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,794 ) (5,428 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,354 $ 1,036 a. Includes adjustments for point of sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. Net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. 113 Table of Contents Henderson Molybdenum Mine Product Revenues and Production Costs Years Ended December 31, (In millions) 2010 2009a 2008a Revenues, excluding adjustments $ 637 $ 347 $ 1,209 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 193 148 216 Treatment charges and other 43 30 27 Net cash costs 236 178 243 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 34 26 172 Noncash and other costs, net 1 1 7 Total costs 271 205 422 Gross profitb $ 366 $ 142 $ 787 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Production Depreciation, (In millions) and Depletion and Revenues Delivery Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2010 Totals presented above $ 637 $ 193 $ 34 Treatment charges and other per above (43 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 1 N/A Henderson mine 594 194 34 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsc 611 590 17 Molybdenum 1,205 784 51 North America copper mines 4,136 2,015 273 South America mining 4,991 1,678 250 Indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 Africa mining 1,106 488 128 Rod & Refining 4,470 4,443 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,794 ) (5,428 ) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,354 $ 1,036 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Totals presented above $ 347 $ 148 $ 26 Treatment charges and other per above (30 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 1 N/A Henderson mine 317 149 26 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsc 530 511 d 23 Molybdenum 847 660 49 North America copper mines 3,235 1,911 280 South America mining 3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining 389 315 66 Rod & Refining 3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations (4,426 ) (4,150 ) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,035 d $ 1,014 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Totals presented above $ 1,209 $ 216 $ 172 Treatment charges per above (27 ) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costs per above N/A 7 N/A Henderson mine 1,182 223 172 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsc 1,306 1,406 d 20 Molybdenum 2,488 1,629 192 North America copper mines 5,265 3,708 770 South America mining 4,166 1,854 511 Indonesia mining 3,412 1,792 222 Africa mining 16 6 Rod & Refining 5,557 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining 2,341 2,276 35 Corporate, other & eliminations (5,433 ) (5,604 ) 38 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements $ 17,796 $ 11,198 e $ 1,782 114 Table of Contents a. Revenues and costs were adjusted to include freight and downstream conversion costs in net cash costs; gross profit was not affected by these adjustments. b. Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum segment includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. c. Primarily includes amounts associated with the molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced as a by product at our North and South America copper mines. d. Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million in 2009 and $100 million in 2008. e. Includes LCM inventory adjustments of $782 million. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Our discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our future performance. Forward looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as those statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected commodity prices, projected capital expenditures, projected exploration efforts and results, projected mine production and development plans, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, reserve estimates, potential prepayments of debt, future dividend payments and potential share purchases.& #160; The words anticipates, may, can, plans, believes, estimates, expects, projects, intends, likely, will, should, to be, and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward looking statements. The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. In making any forward looking statements, we believe that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. We caution readers that those statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward looking statements. Important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements include commodity prices, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, documentation of the outcome of the contract review process and resolution of administrative disputes in the Democratic Republic of Congo, risks related to the investment in McMoRan Exploration Co., weather related ri sks, labor relations, environmental risks, litigation results, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the SEC. Investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions on which our forward looking statements are based are likely to change after our forward looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which we cannot control, and production volumes and costs, some aspects of which we may or may not be able to control. Further, we may make changes to our business plans that could or will affect our results. We caution investors that we do not intend to update our forward looking statements notwithstanding any changes in our assumptions, changes in our business plans, our actual experience, or other changes, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statements more frequently than quarterly. 115 Table of Contents 
 
