Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). An extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could adversely affect our financial results, affect our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities.Additionally, if market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. We may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses.Substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) monthly average spot copper prices. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs.Copper prices have fluctuated historically, with LME spot copper prices ranging from $1.38 to $4.60 per pound during the three years ended December 31, 2011. Copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:The strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world;Available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories;Sales by holders and producers of copper;Demand for industrial products containing copper;Investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity;The availability and cost of substitute materials; andCurrency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar.40Table of ContentsGold prices have also fluctuated historically, with the London PM gold price ranging from $810 to $1,895 per ounce during the three years ended December 31, 2011. Gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:The strength of the U.S. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including China and India;Global or regional political or economic crises;The relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar and other currencies;Expectations with respect to the rate of inflation;Interest rates;Purchases and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other holders;Demand for jewelry containing gold; andInvestment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity.Molybdenum prices also fluctuate, with the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price ranging from $7.83 to $18.60 per pound during the three years ended December 31, 2011. Molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including:The worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply;Rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel;The volume of molybdenum produced as a by product of copper production;Inventory levels;Currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar; andProduction costs of U.S. and foreign competitors.Under U.S. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we generally are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent state regulations. The failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse affect on us.We are required by U.S. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. These laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance. EPA and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under CERCLA or equivalent state regulations. In July 2009, EPA published a Priority Notice of Action identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements concerning the degree and duration of risk associated with the production, transportation, treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous substances. In EPAs semi annual regulatory agenda published on February 13, 2012, EPA indicated that it intends to propose regulations regarding hardrock mining financial responsibility in April 2013. It is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations.41Table of ContentsThe amount of financial assurance we are required to provide will vary with changes in laws, regulations and reclamation and closure requirements and cost estimates. As of December 31, 2011, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs in New Mexico, Arizona and Colorado totaled $899 million, of which $565 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. Our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on our ability to meet financial tests. Certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state approved ratings service. We are currently rated investment grade by Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P), Fitch Ratings and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys). If we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these more rigorous tests, in which case the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. Depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. Issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. Failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. As of December 31, 2011, we had limited financial assurance obligations associated with CERCLA related remediation obligations, although EPA and certain states are currently considering increasing the use of financial assurance requirements for such obligations. For additional information, see the environmental risk factor Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations.In July 2011, the Chilean senate passed legislation regulating mine closure, which establishes new requirements for closure plans and becomes effective in November 2012. Our Chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. We cannot predict at this time the costs of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required.In December 2010, the President of Indonesia issued a regulation regarding mine reclamation and closure, which requires a company to provide a mine closure guarantee in the form of a time deposit placed in a state owned bank in Indonesia. In accordance with its Contract of Work (COW), PT Freeport Indonesia is working with the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources to review these requirements, including discussions of other options for the mine closure guarantee. In December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia submitted its revised mine closure plan to the Department of Energy and Minerals Resources for review and has addressed comments received during the course of this review process.Movements in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results.The functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol, euro and South African rand. Generally, our results are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Refer to Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs.From time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange. However, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations.International risksOur international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries.We are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the U.S. We conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Peru, Chile and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. Such risks include:Renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, Expropriation or nationalization of property, 42Table of ContentsChanges in a foreign countrys laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, Political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, Foreign exchange controls, and The risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. Our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. Accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the U.S. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.In October 2010, PT Freeport Indonesia received an assessment from the Indonesian tax authorities for additional taxes of $106 million and interest of $52 million related to various audit exceptions for 2005. In November 2011, PT Freeport Indonesia received an assessment from the Indonesian tax authorities for additional taxes of $22 million and interest of $10 million related to various audit exceptions for 2006. PT Freeport Indonesia has paid $109 million for these disputed tax assessments and filed objections to these assessments because it believes it has properly paid all taxes. PT Freeport Indonesia is working with the Indonesian tax authorities to resolve these matters and expects to receive additional assessments from the Indonesian tax authorities for their audit of its 2007 tax return. In December 2009, PT Freeport Indonesia was notified by the Large Taxpayers Office of the Government of Indonesia of its view that PT Freeport Indonesia is obligated to pay value added taxes on certain goods imported after the year 2000. The amount of such taxes and related penalties under this view would be significant. PT Freeport Indonesia believes that, pursuant to the terms of its COW, it is only required to pay value added taxes on these types of goods imported after December 30, 2009. PT Freeport Indonesia has not received a formal assessment and is working with the applicable government authorities to resolve this matter.SUNAT, the Peruvian national tax authority, has assessed mining royalties on materials processed by the Cerro Verde concentrator which commenced operations in late 2006. These assessments cover the period October 2006 to December 2007 and the years 2008 and 2009. SUNAT has issued rulings denying Cerro Verdes protest of the assessments. Cerro Verde has appealed these decisions and currently has three cases pending before the Peruvian Tax Tribunal. Cerro Verde is challenging these royalties because it believes its stability agreement provides an exemption for all minerals extracted from its mining concession, irrespective of the method used for processing those minerals. Although we believe our interpretation of the stability agreement is correct, if Cerro Verde is ultimately found responsible for these assessments, it will also be liable for interest, which accrues at rates that range from approximately 7 to 18 percent based on the year accrued and the currency in which the amounts would be payable. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate amount of the assessments, including interest and penalties, totaled $190 million. SUNAT may continue to assess mining royalties annually until this matter is resolved by the Peruvian Tax Tribunal.Because our Grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in Indonesia.Indonesia has faced political and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. In particular, several separatist groups are opposing Indonesian rule over the province of Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. In response, Indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective January 1, 2001. The manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social, economic and political instability in Papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities.Maintaining a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among Indonesias most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a COW with the Indonesian government. Partially because of their significance to Indonesias economy, the 43Table of Contentsenvironmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the Indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. Between July 2009 and February 2012, there were 32 shooting incidents in and around the Grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 56 injuries. Victims included PT Freeport Indonesia employees, contractors, members of law enforcement and civilians. The identity of the perpetrators is unknown as is the motivation for the shootings. The investigation of these matters is continuing. We have taken precautionary measures, including using secured convoys on the road. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. Prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. The safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and PT Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the Government of Indonesia to address security issues.During 2011, PT Freeport Indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight day work stoppage in July 2011 and an approximate three month strike that concluded in December 2011. The strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. Although a new labor agreement was reached in mid December 2011, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at PT Freeport Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. Certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. On February 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. We are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. Refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.Large numbers of illegal miners have continued to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in PT Freeport Indonesias government approved tailings management area. The illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. In 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the Grasberg mine and mill in protest, and PT Freeport Indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. We cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our Indonesian operations. If additional violence or other disruptive incidents occur, it could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time.We do not expect to mine all of our ore reserves in Indonesia before the initial term of our COW expires.PT Freeport Indonesia is entitled to mine in Indonesia under its COW with the Government of Indonesia. The initial term of the current COW expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10 year periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Our proven and probable ore reserves in Indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10 year extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current COW, and there can be no assurance that the Indonesian government will approve the extensions. Prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 31 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at December 31, 2011, representing 37 percent of PT Freeport Indonesias share of recoverable copper reserves and 49 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves.In 2009, Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia. In 2011 and 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2009 mining law and certain provisions address existing contracts of work. The laws and regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to existing contracts and may seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work, even though our COW provides for two 10 year extension periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. In February 2012, a new regulation was adopted that would require mining companies in Indonesia to process all minerals domestically and possibly ban export of concentrates and other unrefined minerals. There are specific provisions included in PT Freeport Indonesias existing COW that define its rights to 44Table of Contentsexport product and the obligation to develop domestic smelting capacity if commercially feasible, or to contract with other domestic smelters on a market basis. In connection with the obligations under its COW, in 1995, PT Freeport Indonesia constructed the only copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia, which is owned and operated by PT Smelting.Our COWs in Indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel.PT Freeport Indonesias COW and other COWs in which we have an interest were entered into under Indonesias 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. Our COWs can be terminated by the Government of Indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements.Certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our COW. Although our COW grants to PT Freeport Indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the COW, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on PT Freeport Indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements. At times, certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the Government of Indonesia prior to May 1998 (i.e., during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including PT Freeport Indonesias COW, which was signed in December 1991. We cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the COWs will not be challenged for political or other reasons. PT Freeport Indonesias COW and our other COWs require that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. Accordingly, if a dispute arises under the COWs, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory.Indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with Indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the COWs. In January 2012, the President of Indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 Mining Law, and accordingly, to take steps to assess and negotiate size of work areas, government revenues, and domestic processing of minerals. The team includes 14 cabinet level members representing 13 formal government institutions led by the Coordinating Minister of Economy and the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources, with the Director General of Mineral and Coal as the Secretary. The teams assignment runs through December 2013 and the group is expected to provide progress reports to the President every six months. We intend to continue to work cooperatively with the Government of Indonesia to complete this review and to seek extension of the COW beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the COW. The COW can only be modified by mutual agreement between PT Freeport Indonesia and the Government of Indonesia. Any suspension of required activities under our COWs requires the consent of the Indonesian government.Our COWs permit us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the Indonesian government. These requests are subject to the approval of the Indonesian government and are renewable annually. If we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the COW or potentially be declared in default. Moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the Indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the COW.We previously suspended our field exploration activities outside of the Block A area of PT Freeport Indonesias COW because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an Indonesian Forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open pit mining in forest preservation areas. In 2001, we requested and received from the Government of Indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the COWs in all areas outside of Block A. Recent Indonesian legislation permits open pit mining in the Block B area of PT Freeport Indonesias COW, subject to certain requirements. Following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective COW areas outside of Block A.45Table of ContentsThe Tenke Fungurume minerals district is located in the Katanga province of the DRC, and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the DRC.During 2009, we completed construction activities and commenced copper production at the Tenke Fungurume mine (the Tenke mine) located in the DRC. Since gaining independence in 1960, the DRC has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. As part of a review of all mining contracts by the Ministry of Mines (the Ministry) in the DRC, in February 2008, we received notification that the Ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L.s (TFM) mining concessions. In October 2010, the Government of the DRC concluded its review of TFMs existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. In connection with the review, TFM made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in December 2010 (refer to Note 14 for further discussion). In March 2011, the amendments were approved by a ministerial council, and a Presidential Decree, signed by the President and Prime Minister of the DRC, was issued in April 2011. After receiving the required government approval of the modification to TFMs bylaws that reflect the agreement with the Government of the DRC, our effective ownership interest in the project will be reduced to 56.0 percent prospectively, compared to our current ownership interest of 57.75 percent.In November 2011, the DRC held a general presidential election. On December 16, 2011, incumbent President Joseph Kabila was declared the winner of that election by the DRC Supreme Court. There has been widespread international and local criticism of the election and episodes of protests, some of which were accompanied by acts of violence. In July 2009, TFM was advised that the Minister of Justice in the DRC authorized an inquiry regarding the alleged misappropriation of public funds in connection with securing labor and immigration authorizations and the payment of associated fees for the Tenke Fungurume project. Several government officials and three TFM employees were arrested. In October 2009, the three TFM employees were tried and acquitted. One government official, the head of immigration in the Katanga province, was sentenced to five years imprisonment on charges of embezzlement. The office of the Attorney General of the DRC filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, and the matter is pending at the Appellate Court.In July 2009, TFM entered into a settlement agreement with DRC tax authorities in connection with an administrative audit regarding the payment of fees for work permits and visas for its foreign workers and subcontractors, including short term workers. Pursuant to the agreement, which covers the period from January 2007 to the date of the settlement, TFM paid approximately $16 million in fees and penalties. The procedures associated with obtaining labor and immigration authorizations for short term workers on a timely basis are not clearly established in the DRC, and TFM continues to work proactively and cooperatively with the government authorities to establish approved procedures for doing so consistent with its mining convention and local law. In connection with this matter, we notified the U.S. government enforcement authorities about our internal investigation of the immigration work permit and visa matter and the associated criminal case. We have received and responded to requests from U.S. government authorities related to the matter and to other requests for information about our compliance program.Political, economic and social risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include:Political risks associated with the establishment and re election of the present government;Cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government;Legal and regulatory uncertainties, governmental corruption and bribery;Royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims;Security risks due to the remote location in the southern DRC and violence in the northeastern provinces of the DRC;46Table of ContentsRisk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; andRisk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism.Accordingly, the Tenke Fungurume minerals district and its future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our operating results, interrupt our operations or result in a loss of all or part of our investment in the DRC.Terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business.In July 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the JW Marriott and Ritz Carlton hotels in Jakarta, Indonesia, that killed nine people and injured 53 others. Two of our Indonesian based executives were injured in the incident.In July 2009, a small group of individuals created a disturbance on the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our Grasberg minerals district and vandalized vehicles and small buildings. There were no injuries. For more information about a series of shooting incidents near our Grasberg minerals district, refer to the risk factor Because our Grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in Indonesia.In August 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near Tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of PT Freeport Indonesias personnel reside. The assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in Tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to PT Freeport Indonesia. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigated the incident, which resulted in the U.S. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the Free Papua Movement/National Freedom Force. In January 2006, Indonesian police, accompanied by FBI agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other Papuans. In November 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the August 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack.In October 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the Indonesian province of Bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. Indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. In August 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, Indonesia. In September 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. In October 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in Bali. The same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. In November 2005, Indonesian police raided a house in East Java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. Our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but PT Freeport Indonesias corporate office in Jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the Australian embassy. In addition to the Bali, JW Marriott Hotel and Australian embassy bombings, there have been anti American demonstrations in certain sections of Indonesia reportedly led by radical Islamic activists.No assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. If there were to be additional terrorist incidents or acts of violence, particularly at or near our operations, there could be no assurance that the occurrence of such events would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.Operational risksOur business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business.Mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. These operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following:Earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters;47Table of ContentsThe occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events;The failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations;Accidents;Wall failures and rock slides in our open pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines;Problems associated with the construction and management of large impoundments containing tailings or other viscous or semi solid materials, some of which also contain mineral and chemical contaminants, such as structural failures or leakages;Interruption of energy supply;Lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates;Metallurgical and other processing problems;Unanticipated ground and water conditions;Adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and shortages of water to which we have rights;Adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; Delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits;Delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes;The inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage.The failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. Labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As further described in Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties, we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at our operations. Labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning those issues will be concluded successfully. Our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations. Additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected.During 2011, PT Freeport Indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight day work stoppage in July 2011 and an approximate three month strike that concluded in December 2011. The strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. In mid December 2011, the financial terms of a new two year labor agreement for PT Freeport Indonesia were reached and the parties agreed that future wage negotiations would be based on living costs and the competitiveness of wages within Indonesia. Although a new labor agreement has been reached, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at PT Freeport Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. Certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. On February 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily 48Table of Contentssuspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. We are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. Refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.In fourth quarter 2011, there was an approximate two month labor strike at Cerro Verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. The strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three year agreement with the union was reached in late December 2011.If we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. Our operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Our operations in North and South America are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines depends on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims. At our North America operations, our water rights give us only the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. In Arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the state of Arizona has been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the states largest river systems that affect four of our operating mines (Morenci, Safford, Sierrita and Miami). The legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our Bagdad mine. Groundwater has historically been treated separately from surface water under Arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. However, court decisions in recent years have concluded that if groundwater pumping produces or affects surface water, then such pumping requires surface water rights and is subject to the general stream adjudications. The effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water is currently the focus of one of those adjudications.In Colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the Climax molybdenum mine. In New Mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated.Water for our Cerro Verde mining operation comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned Cerro Verde operations. Cerro Verde has been conducting water studies to assess opportunities for additional supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. In 2011, Cerro Verde reached an agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Arequipa S.A. (SEDAPAR) and other local institutions to allow Cerro Verde to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant, should it proceed with plans for a large scale concentrator expansion. Once Cerro Verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion.Water for our El Abra mining operation comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn aquifer. In 2010, El Abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotn aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. We believe that El Abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations, however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our sulfide groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. El Abra is also conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. Water for our Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations is drawn from the Copiap River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, Candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. During 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to convey reclaimed water from a nearby water treatment facility to our 49Table of ContentsCandelaria mine. We have also completed engineering and began construction for a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean that will supply Candelarias longer term water needs. The plant is expected to be completed in early 2013.Although we believe each operation has sufficient water rights and claims to cover current operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. The loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, or physical shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or close mining operations and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. Increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow.Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. For the year 2011, energy represented approximately 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. An inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. Our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires, explosives and diluents. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. Increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects.In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area.The Grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of Indonesia. Because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster.In October 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the Grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. In December 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. The events caused us to alter our short term mine sequencing plans; normal production activities resumed in second quarter 2004.In March 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting PT Freeport Indonesias mining facilities. Three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. The material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. As a result of investigations by PT Freeport Indonesia and the Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. The existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded.In September 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our Grasberg open pit. There were no injuries or property damage. The event caused a delay in our access to the high grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods.In April 2011, two PT Freeport Indonesia employees died in an accident when a portion of the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. The area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident.No assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future.In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Africa mining operation involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the DRC.The Tenke Fungurume minerals district is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to additional challenges, including:50Table of ContentsSeverely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance;Limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained;Challenges in obtaining experienced personnel;Security risks; andLimited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria and cholera.Additionally, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the Tenke mine approximately 1,900 miles to ports in South Africa. The Tenke Fungurume minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development.The volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. Our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Age of 1934, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. Estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth or our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. In addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. A sustained decrease in commodity prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. These factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. There are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from mill and leach stockpiles. The quantity of copper delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. Accordingly, the volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and copper recovered from stockpiles may be less than anticipated.We must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries.Our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long term viability. Produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. Exploration is highly speculative in nature. Our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. 51Table of ContentsDevelopment projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and estimated future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can adversely affect project economics. Moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. Therefore, it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. Refer to Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of our current development projects.New development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. These development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. It is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in capital expenditures. The development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following:Unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; Challenges related to hiring and training personnel required for underground mining activities; Larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and Unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods. Some of these risks could result in delays to production startup and a loss or reduction in minable tons. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Environmental risksOur domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs.Our mining operations and exploration activities, both in the U.S. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, and increased demand for remediation services leading to shortages of equipment, supplies and labor, as well as other factors. Recent examples of these trends include EPAs June 2010, promulgation of a new sulphur dioxide ambient air standard and EPAs efforts to curtail the exemption of mining operations from waste management regulation under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. These and other such actions could have a significant impact on our operational compliance and closure costs. In addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years.Freeport McMoRan Corporation (FMC, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the U.S. for more than a century. Activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before American industrial 52Table of Contentscompanies understood the long term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. With the passage of CERCLA in 1980, companies like FMC became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. That liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. As a result, because of our acquisition of FMC in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the U.S., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. We are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. At December 31, 2011, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the U.S. in 27 states.At December 31, 2011, we had $1.5 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to CERCLA or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. Our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: Our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago; Our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and Our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. Significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. The actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of our environmental obligations.During 2011, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $387 million, compared with $372 million in 2010 and $289 million in 2009. For 2012, we expect to incur approximately $636 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. The timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities, and as actual spending occurs.An adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us.As described in Note 13, we are a defendant in numerous, and in some cases significant, litigation matters involving alleged environmental contamination, alleged environmental toxic torts and complex interpretations of environmental regulations. An adverse ruling in one or more of those matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.Our Indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs.Mining operations on the scale of our Indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper , gold and silver bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the Indonesian government, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. Lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the 53Table of Contentsfootprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands.Another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. In the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment.From time to time, certain Indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. Because our Indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical.In connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the Indonesian government, we committed to perform a one time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. We completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the Indonesian government in December 2002. We developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the Indonesian government, academia and non governmental organizations. The risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents.Since 2005, PT Freeport Indonesia has participated in the Government of Indonesias PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating) program. In November 2011, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment announced the latest results of its PROPER environmental management audit, but did not provide a rating for PT Freeport Indonesia because of the strike and security conditions that existed during 2011. In 2010, the Indonesia Ministry of Environment issued a Blue rating acknowledging PT Freeport Indonesias environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in Indonesia. Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. Our U.S. operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined land reclamation obligations. These requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. In general, our U.S. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. It is uncertain how potential EPA requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. Our international mines are also subject to various mine closure and mined land reclamation laws. In July 2011, the Chilean senate passed legislation relating to mine closure, which establishes new requirements for closure plans and becomes effective in November 2012. As a result, our Chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. We cannot predict at this time the costs of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required. At December 31, 2011, we had asset retirement obligations (AROs) of $921 million recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. ARO cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure or financial assurance regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion.54Table of ContentsRegulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets.Many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, potentially contribute to climate change. In 2011, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately 10 million metric tons, divided between direct (54 percent) and indirect (46 percent) emissions. Most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. Indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. Approximately 56 percent of our direct emissions are in Indonesia, 28 percent in North America and 10 percent in South America. Approximately 58 percent of our indirect emissions are in North America and 40 percent in South America. A number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the U.S. several of these regulatory changes are being challenged at both the federal and state levels. In September 2009, the EPA issued final regulations requiring monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in specified circumstances. Those regulations became effective in 2010. Our Miami smelter and El Paso refinery have reported their emissions under this program. In June 2010, the EPA issued final regulations under the Clean Air Act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. Certain of our operations, including the Miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations, as these regulations and anticipated EPA regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. Several states have initiated action on their own or as part of regional organizations, such as the Western Climate Initiative, to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our U.S. operations. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that ratified the Protocol. Although the U.S. has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in December 2012, the U.S. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. Since 2006, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. In 2009, we formed a multi departmental greenhouse gas task force to pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including evaluating potential reductions in emissions from our haul trucks. However, because of longer and steeper mining hauls as our open pits expand and deepen, and increases in use of electricity as we increase production capacity, we expect increases in our total greenhouse gas emissions.From a medium and long term perspective, we are likely to experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations.Our operating, inactive and historical U.S. mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations.Federal and state agencies have considered proposing new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. For example, the EPA could promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (TENORM) and their impacts at mining operations. In addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. Radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations. Accordingly, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation. The impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain.55Table of ContentsOther risksIf market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long lived assets may be impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material.Declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, could cause us to record lower of cost or market (LCM) inventory adjustments and could also result in a write down of the carrying value of long lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders equity, but would have no effect on cash flows.During fourth quarter 2008, we concluded that the then current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long lived assets and goodwill for impairment. As a result, we recorded significant impairment and LCM inventory charges. Refer to Item 6. "Selected Financial Data" for a summary of these charges. Unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We are a party to the litigation described in Note 13 and in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at Superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. If any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business.Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. A loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected.Our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends.We are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. In addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the U.S.In addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries creditors, including any trade creditors.56Table of ContentsAnti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult.Anti takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. These provisions:Authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us;Establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings;Limit removal of directors for cause only;Limit who may call stockholder meetings; andRequire the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors.In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us.These provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are involved in numerous legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by Freeport McMoRan Corporation (FMC formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation) and its affiliates. We are also involved periodically in other reviews, investigations and proceedings by government agencies, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Management does not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of any legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition; although individual outcomes could be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending on the nature and magnitude of the outcome and the operating results for the period. Below is a discussion of our water rights legal proceedings. Refer to Note 13 for discussion of our other legal proceedings.Water Rights Our operations in the western United States (U.S.) require water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Continuous operation of our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. In the arid western U.S., water rights are often contested, and disputes over water rights are generally time consuming, expensive and not necessarily dispositive unless they resolve actual and potential claims. The loss of a water right or continued use of a currently available water supply, in whole or in part, could have a material adverse effect on our mining operations. Each western state has its own set of complex laws governing the withdrawal and use of groundwater and surface water, which are the sources of water supply for our operations. In Arizona, a landowner has the right to pump 57Table of Contentsgroundwater beneath his property and put it to reasonable and beneficial use. Surface water in Arizona is subject to the doctrine of prior appropriation (first in time, first in right) and permits a holder of water rights to use surface water for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. In Arizona, potential claims are difficult to resolve, because it is difficult to identify and join all potentially interested parties in a single legal proceeding. Global efforts to settle contested water rights in an entire watershed, which are referred to as adjudications, are complex, multi party judicial proceedings that can take decades to complete, but are designed to resolve all actual and potential claims. Two water rights adjudications have been initiated in Arizona in order to quantify and prioritize all surface water claims in two of the states river systems that could impact four of our operating mines (Morenci, Safford, Sierrita and Miami). Any precedents set in these legal proceedings may also affect our Bagdad mine. These adjudications have been under way for many years, and we cannot predict when they will be concluded or how the many conflicting claims will be resolved.In Re the General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Little Colorado Water System and Sources, Apache County, Superior Court, No. 6417, filed on or about February 17, 1978. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the state of Arizona; the Salt River Project; the Arizona Public Service Company; the Navajo Nation, the Hopi Indian Tribe; the San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe; and the U.S. on behalf of those tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe. In Re The General Adjudication of All Rights to Use Water in the Gila River System and Sources,Maricopa County, Superior Court, Cause Nos. W 1 (Salt), W 2 (Verde), W 3 (Upper Gila), and W 4 (San Pedro). This case was originally initiated in 1974 with the filing of a petition with the Arizona State Land Department and was consolidated and transferred to the Maricopa County Superior Court in 1981. The principal parties, in addition to us, include: the state of Arizona; the Gila Valley Irrigation District; the Franklin Irrigation District; the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District; the Salt River Project; the San Carlos Apache Tribe; the Gila River Indian Community (GRIC); and the U.S. on behalf of those Tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the White Mountain Apache Tribe, the Fort McDowell Mohave Apache Indian Community, the Salt River Pima Maricopa Indian Community, and the Payson Community of Yavapai Apache Indians.The last significant decision of the Maricopa County Superior Court in the Gila River adjudication was issued in 2005 and directed the Arizona Department of Water Resources (ADWR) to prepare detailed recommendations regarding the delineation of the sub flow zone of the San Pedro River basin, a tributary of the Gila River, which is the subsurface area adjacent to the river where the court may find that it is connected to the surface water such that pumping may reduce surface flows. Although we have minimal interests in the San Pedro River basin, a decision that re characterizes groundwater in that basin as surface water will set a precedent for other river systems in Arizona that could have material implications for many commercial, industrial, municipal and agricultural users of groundwater, including our Arizona operations.ADWRs recommendations were objected to by numerous parties on both sides of the issue, and a three day hearing was held in late January 2012, at which various parties provided testimony and oral argument regarding the strengths and weaknesses of ADWRs technical approach to characterizing underground flows as groundwater or surface water. Given the legal and technical complexity of this adjudication, its long history, and its long term legal and political implications, it is difficult to predict the timing or the outcome of this issue or of the overall adjudication.Prior to January 1, 1983, various Indian tribes filed suits in the U.S. District Court in Arizona claiming superior rights to water being used by many other water users, including us, and claiming damages for prior use in derogation of their allegedly superior rights. These federal proceedings have been stayed pending the Arizona Superior Court adjudications.In 1998, we and several other parties entered into a water rights settlement agreement with GRIC, one of the largest claimants in the adjudication, that was later included in a comprehensive water rights settlement under the Arizona Water Settlements Act of 2004. The GRIC settlement is subject to contingencies, and the comprehensive settlement has been challenged by other parties. If we are unable to resolve the contingencies in the GRIC settlement and defeat the third party challenges, our water rights in the Gila River watershed could be diminished, and our operations at Morenci, Safford, Sierrita and Miami could be adversely affected.United States v. Gila Valley Irrigation District, United States District Court, District of Arizona, was initiated in 1925 by the U.S. to settle conflicting claims to water rights in portions of the Gila River watershed. A decree settling the claims of various parties was entered in 1935, after we were dismissed from the case without prejudice. In 1988, the GRIC intervened, challenging uses of water in the Gila River watershed, which may affect our ability to divert 58Table of Contentswater from Eagle Creek, Chase Creek or the San Francisco River for operation of our Morenci mine, pursuant to decreed rights and an agreement between us and the Gila Valley Irrigation District. Our Morenci operations also purchased farm lands with water rights in 1997, 1998 and 2008 that could be affected by the outcome of this proceeding. Impairment of our water claims in the Gila River watershed could adversely affect the operations of our Morenci and Safford mines.Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.The safety and health of all employees is our highest priority. Management believes that safety and health considerations are integral to, and compatible with, all other functions in the organization and that proper safety and health management will enhance production and reduce costs. Our approach towards the health and safety of our workforce is to continuously improve performance through implementing robust management systems and providing adequate training, safety incentive and occupational health programs.Our objective is zero work place injuries and occupational illnesses. We measure progress toward achieving our objective against regularly established benchmarks, including measuring company wide Total Recordable Incident Rates (TRIR). During 2011, our TRIR (including contractors) was 0.61 per 200,000 man hours worked, compared to the preliminary metal mining sector industry average reported by the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) for 2011 of 2.29 per 200,000 man hours worked. Our TRIR (including contractors) was 0.65 per 200,000 man hours worked in 2010 and 0.74 per 200,000 man hours worked in 2009, compared to MSHAs metal mining sector industry average of 2.53 per 200,000 man hours worked in 2010 and 2.61 per 200,000 man hours worked in 2009.Refer to Exhibit 95.1 for mine safety disclosures required in accordance with Section 1503(a) of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.Executive Officers of the Registrant.Certain information as of February 15, 2012, about our executive officers is set forth in the following table and accompanying text:Name Age Position or OfficeJames R. Moffett 73 Chairman of the BoardRichard C. Adkerson 65 Director, President and Chief Executive OfficerMichael J. Arnold 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative OfficerKathleen L. Quirk 48 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerJames R. Moffett has served as Chairman of the Board since May 1992. Mr. Moffett previously served as the Chief Executive Officer from July 1995 until December 2003. He has also served as Co Chairman of the Board of McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR) since September 1998, and President and Chief Executive Officer since May 2010.Richard C. Adkerson has served as President since January 2008 and also from April 1997 to March 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2003 and a director since October 2006. Mr. Adkerson previously served as Chief Financial Officer from October 2000 to December 2003. Mr. Adkerson has also served as Co Chairman of the Board of MMR since September 1998.Michael J. Arnold has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007 and Chief Administrative Officer since December 2003.Kathleen L. Quirk has served as Executive Vice President since March 2007, Chief Financial Officer since December 2003 and Treasurer since February 2000. Ms. Quirk previously served as Senior Vice President from December 2003 to March 2007. Ms. Quirk has also served as the Senior Vice President of MMR since April 2002 and as Treasurer since January 2000.59Table of ContentsPART IIItem 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.Unregistered Sales of Equity SecuritiesNone.Common StockOur common shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol FCX. The FCX share price is reported daily in the financial press under FMCG in most listings of NYSE securities. The table below shows the NYSE composite tape common share price ranges during 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 High Low High LowFirst Quarter $61.35 $46.20 $45.28 $33.02Second Quarter 58.75 46.06 44.15 29.12Third Quarter 56.78 30.37 43.96 28.36Fourth Quarter 43.50 28.85 60.39 43.19At February 15, 2012, there were 16,432 holders of record of our common stock.Common Stock DividendsAfter suspending dividends in late 2008, the Board of Directors (The Board) reinstated a cash dividend on our common stock in October 2009 at an annual rate of $0.30 per share ($0.075 per share quarterly). The Board authorized increases in the cash dividend to an annual rate of $0.60 per share ($0.15 per share quarterly) in April 2010, and $1.00 per share ($0.25 per share quarterly) in October 2010. The Board also authorized supplemental common stock dividends of $0.50 per share paid in December 2010 and June 2011. Below is a summary of common stock cash dividends paid in 2011 and 2010: 2011 Per ShareAmount Record Date Payment DateFirst Quarter $0.25 01/15/2011 02/01/2011Second Quarter 0.25 04/15/2011 05/01/2011Supplemental Dividend 0.50 05/15/2011 06/01/2011Third Quarter 0.25 07/15/2011 08/01/2011Fourth Quarter 0.25 10/15/2011 11/01/2011 2010 Per ShareAmount Record Date Payment DateFirst Quarter $0.075 01/15/2010 02/01/2010Second Quarter 0.075 04/15/2010 05/01/2010Third Quarter 0.15 07/15/2010 08/01/2010Fourth Quarter 0.15 10/15/2010 11/01/2010Supplemental Dividend 0.50 12/20/2010 12/30/2010In February 2012, the Board authorized an increase in the cash dividend on our common stock to an annual rate of $1.25 per share ($0.3125 per share quarterly). Dividends are paid quarterly as declared by the Board with the initial quarterly dividend of $0.3125 per share expected to be paid in May 2012. The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. 60Table of ContentsIssuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesThe following table sets forth information with respect to shares of FCX common stock purchased by us during the three months ended December 31, 2011:Period (a) TotalNumber ofShares Purchaseda (b) AveragePrice Paid Per Share (c) Total Number ofShares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programsb (d) Maximum Number of Shares That MayYet Be Purchased Under the Plans or ProgramsbOctober 1 31, 2011 $ 23,685,500November 1 30, 2011 23,685,500December 1 31, 2011 23,685,500Total 23,685,500a.Consists of shares repurchased under FCXs applicable stock incentive plans to satisfy tax obligations on restricted stock awards and to cover the cost of option exercises.b.On July 21, 2008, the Board of Directors approved an increase in our open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. The program does not have an expiration date. 61Table of ContentsItem 6. Selected Financial Data.FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007a FCX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA(In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Revenues$20,880 $18,982 $15,040 $17,796 $16,939b Operating income (loss)9,140c 9,068 6,503d,e (12,710)d,e,f 6,555b,f Income (loss) from continuing operations5,747 5,544 3,534 (10,450) 3,733 Net income (loss)5,747 5,544 3,534 (10,450) 3,779 Net income (loss) attributable to FCX common stockholders4,560c,g,h 4,273h 2,527d,e,h (11,341)d,e,f,h 2,769b,f,h Basic net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations$4.81 $4.67 $3.05 $(14.86) $4.01 Discontinued operations 0.05 Basic net income (loss)$4.81 $4.67 $3.05 $(14.86) $4.06 Basic weighted average common shares outstanding947 915 829 763 682 Diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to FCX common stockholders: Continuing operations$4.78 $4.57 $2.93 $(14.86) $3.70 Discontinued operations 0.05 Diluted net income (loss)$4.78c,g,h $4.57h $2.93d,e,h $(14.86)d,e,f,h $3.75b,f,h Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding955 949 938 763 794 Dividends declared per share of common stock$1.50 $1.125 $0.075 $0.6875 $0.6875 At December 31: Cash and cash equivalents$4,822 $3,738 $2,656 $872 $1,626 Property, plant, equipment and development costs, net18,449 16,785 16,195 16,002 25,715 Goodwill 6,105 Total assets32,070 29,386 25,996 23,353 40,661 Total debt, including current portion3,537 4,755 6,346 7,351 7,211 Total FCX stockholders equity15,642 12,504 9,119 5,773 18,234 The selected consolidated financial data shown above is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. You should read this data in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto contained in this annual report.a.Includes the results of Freeport McMoRan Corporation (FMC, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation) beginning March 20, 2007.b.Includes charges totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.13 per share) for mark to market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program assumed in the acquisition of FMC.c.Includes charges totaling $116 million ($50 million to net income attributable to common stock, or $0.05 per share) primarily associated with bonuses for new labor agreements and other employee costs at PT Freeport Indonesia, Cerro Verde and El Abra.d.Includes charges totaling $23 million ($18 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.02 per share) associated with restructuring charges in 2009 and $17.0 billion ($12.7 billion to net loss attributable to common stockholders or $16.60 per share) associated with impairment and restructuring charges in 2008.e.Includes charges for lower of cost or market inventory adjustments totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.02 per share) in 2009 and $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to common stockholders or $0.63 per share) in 2008.f.Includes purchase accounting impacts related to the acquisition of FMC totaling $1.0 billion ($622 million to net loss attributable to common stockholders or $0.82 per share) in 2008 and $1.3 billion ($793 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $1.00 per share) in 2007.g.Includes additional taxes of $49 million ($0.05 per share) associated with Perus new mining tax and royalty regime. h.Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversion of debt totaling $60 million ($0.06 per share) in 2011, $71 million ($0.07 per share) in 2010, $43 million ($0.04 per share) in 2009, $5 million ($0.01 per share) in 2008, and $132 million ($0.17 per share) in 2007; 2008 also includes charges totaling $22 million ($0.03 per share) associated with privately negotiated transactions to induce conversion of a portion of our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock into FCX common stock.62Table of Contents FREEPORT McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (Continued)For comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the year ended December 31, 2007, combines our historical data with FMC pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under FMC management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007a FCX CONSOLIDATED MINING OPERATING DATA Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds)3,691 3,908 4,103 4,030 3,884 Production (thousands of metric tons)1,674 1,773 1,861 1,828 1,762 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds)3,698 3,896 4,111 4,066 3,862 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons)1,678 1,767 1,865 1,844 1,752 Average realized price per pound$3.86 $3.59 $2.60 $2.69 $3.22b Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production1,383 1,886 2,664 1,291 2,329 Sales, excluding purchases1,378 1,863 2,639 1,314 2,320 Average realized price per ounce$1,583 $1,271 $993 $861 $682 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production83 72 54 73 70 Sales, excluding purchases79 67 58 71 69 Average realized price per pound$16.98 $16.47 $12.36 $30.55 $25.87 NORTH AMERICA COPPER MINES Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds)1,258 1,067 1,147 1,430 1,320 Production (thousands of metric tons)571 484 520 649 599 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds)1,247 1,085 1,187 1,434 1,332 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons)566 492 538 650 604 Average realized price per pound$3.99 $3.42 $2.38 $3.07 $3.10b Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production35 25 25 30 30 100% Operating Data Solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day)888,300 648,800 589,400 1,095,200 798,200 Average copper ore grade (percent)0.24 0.24 0.29 0.22 0.23 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds)801 746 859 943 940 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day)222,800 189,200 169,900 249,600 223,800 Average ore grade (percent): Copper0.38 0.32 0.33 0.40 0.35 Molybdenum0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent)83.1 83.0 86.0 82.9 84.5 Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper549 398 364 599 501 Molybdenum35 25 25 30 30 SOUTH AMERICA MINING Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds)1,306 1,354 1,390 1,506 1,413 Production (thousands of metric tons)592 614 631 683 641 Sales (millions of pounds)1,322 1,335 1,394 1,521 1,399 Sales (thousands of metric tons)600 606 632 690 635 Average realized price per pound$3.77 $3.68 $2.70 $2.57 $3.25 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production101 93 92 114 116 Sales101 93 90 116 114 Average realized price per ounce$1,580 $1,263 $982 $853 $683 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Production10 7 2 3 1 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day)245,200 268,800 258,200 279,700 289,100 Average copper ore grade (percent)0.50 0.41 0.45 0.45 0.43 Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds)439 504 565 560 569 63Table of Contents Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007a SOUTH AMERICA MINING (continued) Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day)189,200 188,800 181,300 181,400 167,900 Average ore grade: Copper (percent)0.66 0.65 0.66 0.75 0.74 Gold (grams per metric ton)0.12 0.10 0.10 0.13 0.13 Molybdenum (percent)0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Copper recovery rate (percent)89.6 90.0 88.9 89.2 87.1 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds)867 850 825 946 844 Gold (thousands of ounces)101 93 92 114 116 Molybdenum (millions of pounds)10 7 2 3 1 INDONESIA MINING Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds)846 1,222 1,412 1,094 1,151 Production (thousands of metric tons)384 554 640 496 522 Sales (millions of pounds)846 1,214 1,400 1,111 1,131 Sales (thousands of metric tons)384 551 635 504 513 Average realized price per pound$3.85 $3.69 $2.65 $2.36 $3.32 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production1,272 1,786 2,568 1,163 2,198 Sales1,270 1,765 2,543 1,182 2,185 Average realized price per ounce$1,583 $1,271 $994 $861 $681 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day)166,100 230,200 238,300 192,900 212,600 Average ore grade: Copper (percent)0.79 0.85 0.98 0.83 0.82 Gold (grams per metric ton)0.93 0.90 1.30 0.66 1.24 Recovery rates (percent): Copper88.3 88.9 90.6 90.1 90.5 Gold81.2 81.7 83.7 79.9 86.2 Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds)882 1,330 1,641 1,109 1,211 Gold (thousands of ounces)1,444 1,964 2,984 1,163 2,608 AFRICA MININGc Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds)281 265 154 N/A N/A Production (thousands of metric tons)127 120 70 N/A N/A Sales (millions of pounds)283 262 130 N/A N/A Sales (thousands of metric tons)128 119 59 N/A N/A Average realized price per pound$3.74 $3.45 $2.85 N/A N/A Cobalt (millions of contained pounds) Production25 20 N/A N/A N/A Sales25 20 N/A N/A N/A Average realized price per pound$9.99 $10.95 N/A N/A N/A Ore milled (metric tons per day)11,100 10,300 7,300 N/A N/A Average ore grade (percent): Copper3.41 3.51 3.69 N/A N/A Cobalt0.40 0.40 N/A N/A N/A Copper recovery rate (percent)92.5 91.4 92.1 N/A N/A MOLYBDENUM OPERATIONS Molybdenum sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds)d79 67 58 71 69 Average realized price per pound$16.98 $16.47 $12.36 $30.55 $25.87 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day)22,300 22,900 14,900 24,100 24,000 Average molybdenum ore grade (percent)0.24 0.25 0.25 0.23 0.23 Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds)38 40 27 40 39 a.For comparative purposes, operating data for the year ended December 31, 2007 combines our historical data with FMC pre acquisition data. As the pre acquisition data represents the results of these operations under FMC management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or of future operating results.b.Before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.27 per pound (FCX consolidated) and $3.25 per pound (North America copper mines).c.Results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in March 2009.d.Includes sales of molybdenum produced at our North and South America copper mines.64Table of ContentsRatio of Earnings to Fixed ChargesFor the ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculation, earnings consist of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, equity in affiliated companies net earnings, cumulative effect of accounting changes and fixed charges. Fixed charges include interest and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest. For the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends calculation, we assumed that our preferred stock dividend requirements were equal to the pre tax earnings that would be required to cover those dividend requirements. We computed those pre tax earnings using the effective tax rate for each year. Our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was as follows for the years presented: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007Ratio of earnings to fixed charges20.7x 16.3x 9.3x a 9.9xRatio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends20.7x 13.9x 6.1x b 6.6xa.As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.4 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008.b.As a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. We would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.8 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008.65Table of ContentsItems 7. and 7A. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.OVERVIEWIn Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, we, us and our refer to Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The results of operations reported and summarized below are not necessarily indicative of future operating results (refer to Cautionary Statement for further discussion). References to Notes are Notes included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk all references to earnings or losses per share are on a diluted basis, unless otherwise noted.We are one of the worlds largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. Our portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, significant mining operations in North and South America, and the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The Grasberg minerals district contains the largest single recoverable copper reserve and the largest single gold reserve of any mine in the world based on the latest available reserve data provided by third party industry consultants. We also operate Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in Spain.We have significant reserves, resources and future development opportunities within our portfolio of assets. At December 31, 2011, our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves totaled 119.7 billion pounds of copper, 33.9 million ounces of gold and 3.42 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using long term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. We have added significant reserves in recent years and drilling activities conducted at our existing mines during 2011 indicated the potential for significant reserve additions in future periods. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Mineral Reserves for further discussion.During 2011, 34 percent of our consolidated copper production was from North America, 35 percent from South America, 23 percent from Indonesia and 8 percent from Africa. More specifically, copper production from the Grasberg, Morenci and Cerro Verde mines totaled 55 percent of our consolidated copper production in 2011. We also produce gold, primarily at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, which accounted for 92 percent of our consolidated gold production for 2011. For 2011, 46 percent of our consolidated molybdenum production was from the Henderson molybdenum mine, 42 percent was produced at certain of our North America copper mines and 12 percent was produced at our Cerro Verde mine. Refer to Operations for further discussion of our mining operations.We have increased production at several of our copper mines and are undertaking major development projects, including the development of the underground ore bodies at Grasberg, an expansion at Tenke Fungurume and a concentrator expansion at Cerro Verde. Studies are also under way to evaluate a major mill project at El Abra and various mill projects to process significant sulfide ore in North America. The advancement of these studies is designed to position us to invest in production growth within our existing portfolio of assets. Refer to Operations for further discussion of our current operating and development activities.Our results for the year 2011, compared with 2010, primarily reflected higher realized copper and gold prices, partially offset by lower copper and gold sales volumes (refer to Consolidated Results for further discussion of our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009).Our 2011 results also reflect the impact of labor disruptions at PT Freeport Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesias milling operations were temporarily suspended during fourth quarter 2011 because of damage to concentrate and fuel pipelines resulting from civil unrest that occurred during the strike by union workers. The financial terms of a new two year labor agreement for PT Freeport Indonesias workers were reached in mid December 2011. Repairs to the damaged pipelines are substantially complete, and PT Freeport Indonesia has begun ramping up production. PT Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the Government of Indonesia to address security issues. Maintaining security is a requirement of returning to normal operations. Although a new labor agreement has been reached, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at PT Freeport Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. Certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory 66Table of Contentspersonnel who did not participate in the strike. On February 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. We are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. The work interruptions and temporary suspension of operations at PT Freeport Indonesia may impact our ability to achieve projected sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flows in 2012. PT Freeport Indonesias projected sales volumes of 930 million pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold for the year 2012 (which includes 210 million pounds of copper and 400 thousand ounces of gold in first quarter 2012) are under review. Refer to "Consolidated Results" and "Operations Indonesia Mining" for further discussion of the impacts from the labor disruptions.At December 31, 2011, we had $4.8 billion in consolidated cash and $3.5 billion in long term debt. During 2011, we repaid $1.2 billion in debt, including the April 2011 redemption of $1.1 billion of outstanding 8.25% Senior Notes. In February 2012, we sold $3.0 billion in senior notes in three tranches and announced our intent to redeem the remaining $3.0 billion of our 8.375% Senior Notes. We expect to record a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $168 million ($147 million to net income attributable to common stockholders) in first quarter 2012 in connection with the redemption of our 8.375% Senior Notes. Refer to "Capital Resources and Liquidity Financing Activities" and to Notes 9 and 20 for further discussion of these transactions.During 2011 we paid common stock dividends totaling $1.4 billion, which included $474 million in supplemental dividends. In February 2012, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the cash dividend on our common stock to an annual rate of $1.25 per share ($0.3125 per share quarterly). Refer to "Capital Resources and Liquidity Financing Activities" for further discussion.At current copper prices we expect to produce substantial operating cash flows in 2012, and plan to focus on using our cash to invest in our development projects and return cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and or share repurchases. OUTLOOKWe view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the worlds economy. We will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. Our financial results can vary as a result of fluctuations in market prices for copper, gold and molybdenum. World market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Because we cannot control the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flow. Discussion of the outlook for each of these measures follows.Sales Volumes. Following are our projected consolidated sales volumes for 2012 and actual consolidated sales volumes for 2011: 2012 2011 (Projected) (Actual) Copper (millions of recoverable pounds): North America copper mines1,320 1,247 South America mining1,275 1,322 Indonesia mining930 846 Africa mining290 283 3,815 3,698 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces): Indonesia mining1,135 1,270 South America mining100 101 North America copper minesN/Aa 7 1,235 1,378 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds)b80 79 a.Gold sales volumes are not projected for our North America copper mines.b.Includes sales of molybdenum produced at our North and South America copper mines.67Table of ContentsOur projected 2012 copper sales volumes are expected to be higher, compared with 2011, primarily because of higher production from North America and Indonesia, partly offset by slightly lower production in South America. Gold sales in 2012 are projected to be lower than 2011 sales because of mine sequencing in Indonesia. Molybdenum sales in 2012 are expected to be similar to 2011, with higher production from primary molybdenum mines, offset by lower production from our North and South America copper mines. The achievement of projected 2012 sales volumes depends on a number of factors, including the timing of restoring normal operations at Grasberg following the extended disruption in 2011 and because of recent work interruptions and the temporary suspension of operations, achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors.Unit Net Cash Costs. Assuming average prices of $1,600 per ounce of gold and $13 per pound of molybdenum for 2012, and achievement of current projected 2012 sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate our consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our copper mining operations would average approximately $1.38 per pound in 2012. Consolidated unit net cash costs in 2012 are expected to be higher than consolidated unit net cash costs of $1.01 per pound of copper in 2011 because of higher labor, energy and other inputs, and lower by product credits, partly offset by higher copper volumes. Quarterly unit net cash costs vary with fluctuations in sales volumes and average realized prices for gold and molybdenum.The impact of price changes in 2012 on consolidated unit net cash costs would approximate $0.015 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $0.02 for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. Refer to Consolidated Results Production and Delivery Costs for further discussion of consolidated production and delivery costs.Operating Cash Flows. Our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. Based on projected consolidated sales volumes and unit net cash costs for 2012, and assuming average prices of $3.50 per pound of copper, $1,600 per ounce of gold and $13 per pound of molybdenum in 2012, consolidated operating cash flows are estimated to approximate $4.7 billion in 2012, net of an estimated $0.8 billion for working capital requirements. Projected operating cash flows for the year 2012 also reflect estimated taxes of $2.1 billion (refer to Consolidated Results Provision for Income Taxes for discussion of our projected annual consolidated effective tax rate for 2012). The impact of price changes in 2012 on operating cash flows would approximate $300 million for each $0.10 per pound change in the average price of copper, $50 million for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $90 million for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum.68Table of ContentsCOPPER, GOLD AND MOLYBDENUM MARKETSWorld prices for copper, gold and molybdenum can fluctuate significantly. During the period from January 2002 through January 2012, the London Metal Exchange (LME) spot copper price varied from a low of $0.64 per pound in 2002 to a record high of $4.60 per pound in February 2011; the London gold price fluctuated from a low of $278 per ounce in 2002 to a record high of $1,895 per ounce in September 2011; and the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price ranged from a low of $2.40 per pound in 2002 to a high of $39.25 per pound in 2005. Copper, gold and molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control as described further in our Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011.* Excludes Shanghai stocks, producer, consumer and merchant stocks.This graph presents LME spot copper prices and reported stocks of copper at the LME and the New York Mercantile Exchange (COMEX) from January 2002 through January 2012. From 2006 through most of 2008, limited supplies, combined with growing demand from China and other emerging economies, resulted in high copper prices and low levels of inventories. In late 2008, slowing consumption, turmoil in the U.S. financial markets and concerns about the global economy led to a sharp decline in copper prices, which reached a low of $1.26 per pound in December 2008. Copper prices have since improved from the 2008 lows, attributable to a combination of strong demand from emerging markets and limitations on available supply. During 2011, LME spot copper prices ranged from $3.08 per pound to $4.60 per pound, averaged $4.00 per pound and closed at $3.43 per pound on December 30, 2011. Combined LME and COMEX inventories rose somewhat in 2011, compared to year end 2010 levels, primarily as a result of reduced Chinese imports.We believe the underlying fundamentals of the copper business remain positive, supported by the significant role of copper in the global economy, limited supplies from existing mines and the absence of significant new development projects. Future copper prices are expected to be volatile and are likely to be influenced by demand from China (which represented approximately 40 percent of global consumption in 2011), economic activity in the U.S. and other industrialized countries, the timing of the development of new supplies of copper and production levels of mines and copper smelters. The LME spot copper price closed at $3.81 per pound on February 15, 2012.69Table of ContentsThis graph presents London PM gold prices from January 2002 through January 2012. During 2011, gold prices were volatile ranging from $1,319 per ounce to a record high of $1,895 per ounce, averaging $1,572 per ounce and closing at $1,575 per ounce on December 30, 2011. We believe the outlook for gold remains positive, supported by continued macroeconomic uncertainty and elevated sovereign debt levels. Gold prices closed at $1,726 per ounce on February 15, 2012.This graph presents the Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price from January 2002 through January 2012. In late 2008, molybdenum prices declined significantly as a result of the financial market turmoil and a decline in demand; however, molybdenum prices have since increased, which we believe is supported by 70Table of Contentsimproved economic conditions and resulting demand increases. During 2011, the weekly average price of molybdenum ranged from $12.70 per pound to $17.88 per pound, averaged $15.49 per pound and was $13.35 per pound on December 30, 2011. The Metals Week Molybdenum Dealer Oxide weekly average price was $14.50 per pound on February 15, 2012.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATESManagements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.). The preparation of these statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We base these estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we consider reasonable under the circumstances; however, reported results could differ from those based on the current estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The areas requiring the use of managements estimates are also discussed in Note 1 under the subheading Use of Estimates. Management has reviewed the following discussion of its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.Mineral Reserves. Recoverable proven and probable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates. Estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth of our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. In addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees. A majority of these estimates have been reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination.At December 31, 2011, our consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves included 119.7 billion pounds of copper, 33.9 million ounces of gold and 3.42 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using long term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold and $10.00 per pound for molybdenum. The following table summarizes changes in our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper, gold and molybdenum reserves during 2011 and 2010: Copper(billionpounds) Gold(millionounces) Molybdenum(billionpounds)Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2009 104.2 37.2 2.59Net additions/revisions 20.2 0.2 0.87Production (3.9) (1.9) (0.07)Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2010 120.5 35.5 3.39Net additions/revisions 2.9 (0.2) 0.11Production (3.7) (1.4) (0.08)Consolidated reserves at December 31, 2011 119.7 33.9 3.42Refer to Note 18 for further information regarding estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves.As discussed in Note 1, we depreciate our life of mine mining and milling assets and values assigned to proven and probable reserves using the unit of production (UOP) method based on our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves, and also have other assets that are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations, including changes to prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values. Based on projected copper sales volumes for 2012, if estimated copper reserves at our mines were 10 percent higher at December 31, 2011, we estimate that our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 2012 would decrease by $38 million ($20 million to net income attributable to common stockholders), and a 10 percent decrease in copper reserves would increase depreciation, depletion and amortization expense by $46 million ($24 million to net income attributable to common stockholders). We perform 71Table of Contentsannual assessments of our existing assets in connection with the review of mine operating and development plans. If it is determined that assigned asset lives do not reflect the expected remaining period of benefit, any change could affect prospective depreciation rates.As discussed below and in Note 1, we review and evaluate our long lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and changes to our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves could have an impact on our assessment of asset recoverability.Recoverable Copper. We record, as inventory, applicable costs for copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles that are expected to be processed in the future based on proven processing technologies. Mill and leach stockpiles are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are stated at the lower of cost or market. Accounting for recoverable copper from mill and leach stockpiles represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, which requires management to employ reasonable estimation methods and (ii) recovery rates from leach stockpiles can vary significantly. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles.Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately.Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small scale laboratory tests, small to large scale column testing (which simulates the production scale process), historical trends and other factors,including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years.Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. At December 31, 2011, estimated consolidated recoverable copper was 3.1 billion pounds in leach stockpiles (with a carrying value of $2.4 billion) and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (with a carrying value of $604 million).Environmental Obligations. Our mining, exploration, production and historical operating activities are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, and compliance with those laws requires significant expenditures. Environmental expenditures for closed facilities and closed portions of operating facilities are expensed or capitalized depending upon their future economic benefits. The guidance provided by U.S. GAAP requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 1 for discussion of our accounting policy for environmental expenditures.Accounting for environmental obligations represents a critical accounting estimate because changes to environmental laws and regulations and or circumstances affecting our operations could result in significant changes to our estimates, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. We review changes in facts and circumstances associated with our environmental and reclamation obligations at least quarterly. Judgments and estimates are based upon available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, remediation experience, whether or not we are a potentially responsible party (PRP), the ability of other PRPs to pay their allocated portions and take into consideration reasonably possible outcomes. Our cost estimates can change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or extent of site contamination, updated cost assumptions (including increases and decreases to cost estimates and changes in the anticipated scope and timing of remediation activities), required remediation methods and actions by or against governmental agencies or private parties.72Table of ContentsAt December 31, 2011, environmental obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheets totaled approximately $1.5 billion, which reflect obligations for environmental liabilities attributed to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities.Following is a summary of changes in our estimated environmental obligations for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2011 2010 2009Balance at beginning of year$1,422 $1,464 $1,401Accretion expensea88 97 102Additions132 19 40Reductions(68) (3)Spending(121) (158) (76)Balance at end of year$1,453 $1,422 $1,464a.Represents accretion of the fair value of environmental obligations assumed in the acquisition of Freeport McMoRan Corporation (FMC, formerly Phelps Dodge Corporation), which were determined on a discounted cash flow basis.Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of environmental obligations.Reclamation and Closure Costs. Reclamation is an ongoing activity that occurs throughout the life of a mine. We record the fair value of our estimated asset retirement obligations (AROs) associated with tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. Fair value is measured as the present value of cash flow estimates after considering inflation and then applying a market risk premium. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible long lived assets in the period incurred. These cost estimates may differ from financial assurance cost estimates for reclamation activities because of a variety of factors, including obtaining updated cost estimates for reclamation activities, the timing of reclamation activities, changes in scope and the exclusion of certain costs not considered reclamation and closure costs. Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of our accounting policy for reclamation and closure costs.Generally, ARO activities are specified by regulations or in permits issued by the relevant governing authority, and management judgment is required to estimate the extent and timing of expenditures based on life of mine planning. Accounting for reclamation and closure costs represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) we will not incur most of these costs for a number of years, requiring us to make estimates over a long period, (ii) reclamation and closure laws and regulations could change in the future and or circumstances affecting our operations could change, either of which could result in significant changes to our current plans, (iii) calculating the fair value of our AROs requires management to estimate projected cash flows, make long term assumptions about inflation rates, determine our credit adjusted, risk free interest rates and determine market risk premiums that are appropriate for our operations and (iv) given the magnitude of our estimated reclamation and closure costs, changes in any or all of these estimates could have a significant impact on our results of operations.At least annually, we review our ARO estimates for changes in the projected timing of certain reclamation costs, changes in cost estimates and additional AROs incurred during the period. Following is a summary of changes in our AROs for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2011 2010 2009Balance at beginning of year$856 $731 $712Liabilities incurred9 5 12Revisions to cash flow estimates48a 105a (17)Accretion expense58 54 52Spending(49) (38) (28)Foreign currency translation adjustment(1) (1) Balance at end of year$921 $856 $731a.During 2011 and 2010 the revisions to cash flow estimates primarily related to increased costs of near term closure activities at our Chino mine. Additionally, accelerated timing of closure activities at the Chino mine resulted in revisions to cash flow estimates during 2010.73Table of ContentsRefer to Note 13 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs.Deferred Taxes. In preparing our annual consolidated financial statements, we estimate the actual amount of taxes currently payable or receivable as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in income in the period in which such changes are enacted.A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be realized. In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each jurisdiction. If we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets, we will increase our valuation allowance. Conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to realize all or a portion of the related benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided, all or a portion of the related valuation allowance will be reduced.Our valuation allowances totaled $2.4 billion at December 31, 2011, and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2010, and covered all of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards, and a portion of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards, U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards and U.S. minimum tax credit carryforwards. These valuation allowances include $80 million at December 31, 2011, and $59 million at December 31, 2010, for tax benefits that, if recognized, would be credited directly to other comprehensive income. The $167 million increase in the valuation allowance during 2011 was primarily the result of an increase in foreign tax credit carryforwards, partially offset by a decrease in minimum tax credit carryforwards.Refer to Note 12 for further discussion.Impairment of Assets. We evaluate our long lived assets (to be held and used) for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. In evaluating our long lived assets for recoverability, estimates of after tax undiscounted future cash flows of our individual mining operations are used, with impairment losses measured by reference to fair value. As quoted market prices are unavailable for our individual mining operations, fair value is determined through the use of discounted estimated future cash flows. The estimated cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations are derived from current business plans, which are developed using near term price forecasts reflective of the current price environment and managements projections for long term average metal prices. In addition to near and long term metal price assumptions, other key assumptions include commodity based and other input costs; proven and probable reserves, including the timing and cost to develop and produce the reserves; and the use of appropriate escalation and discount rates.Because the cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations require us to make several estimates and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainty, changes in these estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our long lived asset values. Events that could result in impairment of our long lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in future metal prices, decreases in estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves and any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on mine site production levels or costs. We did not record asset impairment charges during the three years ended December 31, 2011. 74Table of ContentsCONSOLIDATED RESULTS Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Financial Data (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenuesa,b$20,880 $18,982 $15,040 Operating incomeb,c9,140d 9,068 6,503 Net income attributable to FCX common stockholders4,560d,e,f 4,273e 2,527e Diluted net income per share attributable to FCX common stockholders$4.78d,e,f $4.57e $2.93e Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding955 949 938 Mining Operating Data Copper (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds)3,691 3,908 4,103 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds)3,698 3,896 4,111 Average realized price per pound$3.86 $3.59 $2.60 Site production and delivery costs per poundg$1.72 $1.40 $1.12 Unit net cash costs per poundg$1.01 $0.79 $0.55 Gold (recoverable) Production (thousands of ounces)1,383 1,886 2,664 Sales, excluding purchases (thousands of ounces)1,378 1,863 2,639 Average realized price per ounce$1,583 $1,271 $993 Molybdenum (recoverable) Production (millions of pounds)83 72 54 Sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds)79 67 58 Average realized price per pound$16.98 $16.47 $12.36 a.Includes the impact of adjustments to provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales recognized in prior years. Refer to Revenues and Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion.b.Refer to Note 17 for a summary of revenues and operating income by business segment.c.We defer recognizing profits on intercompany sales until final sales to third parties occur. Refer to "Operations Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining" for a summary of net impacts from changes in these deferrals.d.Includes charges totaling $116 million ($50 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.05 per share) primarily associated with bonuses for new labor agreements and other employee costs at PT Freeport Indonesia, Cerro Verde and El Abra. e.Includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversions of debt totaling $60 million ($0.06 per share) in 2011 associated with the redemption of our $1.1 billion outstanding 8.25% Senior Notes and open market purchases of Senior Notes, $71 million ($0.07 per share) in 2010 associated with the redemption of our $1.0 billion Senior Floating Rate Notes and open market purchases of Senior Notes, and $43 million ($0.04 per share) in 2009 associated with the redemption and open market purchases of Senior Notes. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion.f.Includes additional taxes of $49 million ($0.05 per share) associated with Perus new mining tax and royalty regime. Refer to "Provision for Income Taxes" for further discussion.g.Reflects per pound weighted average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for all copper mines, excluding net noncash and other costs. The 2009 period excludes the results of Africa mining as start up activities were still under way. For reconciliations of the per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs and to Product Revenues and Production Costs.RevenuesConsolidated revenues totaled $20.9 billion in 2011, compared with $19.0 billion in 2010 and $15.0 billion in 2009, and include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, gold, molybdenum and other metals by our North and South America copper mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operations, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes, and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Our mining revenues for 2011 include sales of copper (78 percent), gold (12 percent) and molybdenum (6 percent).75Table of ContentsFollowing is a summary of year to year changes in our consolidated revenues (in millions): 2011 2010Consolidated revenues prior year$18,982 $15,040Higher (lower) price realizations from mining operations: Copper999 3,779Gold430 517Molybdenum39 273Silver121 44Cobalt(24) (Lower) higher sales volumes from mining operations: Copper(711) (563)Gold(616) (771)Molybdenum206 105Silver27 (15)Cobalt59 195Unfavorable impacts of net adjustments for prior year provisionally priced sales(4) (155)Higher purchased copper, net of lower purchased molybdenum258 188Higher Atlantic Copper revenues493 599Other, including intercompany eliminations621 (254)Consolidated revenues current year$20,880 $18,982Price RealizationsOur consolidated revenues can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. Realized copper prices averaged $3.86 per pound in 2011, $3.59 per pound in 2010 and $2.60 per pound in 2009. Realized gold prices averaged $1,583 per ounce in 2011, $1,271 per ounce in 2010 and $993 per ounce in 2009. Realized molybdenum prices averaged $16.98 per pound in 2011, $16.47 per pound in 2010 and $12.36 per pound in 2009.Sales Volumes2011 Compared with 2010. Consolidated sales volumes totaled 3.7 billion pounds of copper, 1.4 million ounces of gold and 79 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011, compared with 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 1.9 million ounces of gold and 67 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010. Lower consolidated copper sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflect lower sales volumes in Indonesia, partly offset by higher sales volumes in North America. Lower consolidated gold sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflect lower Grasberg production. Sales of copper and gold in 2011 were adversely affected by labor disruptions and the temporary suspension of milling operations at PT Freeport Indonesia from damage to the concentrate and fuel pipelines. The estimated impact of the labor and pipeline disruptions totaled 235 million pounds of copper and 275 thousand ounces of gold in 2011. Higher consolidated molybdenum sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflected improved demand. Refer to Operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions.2010 Compared with 2009. Consolidated sales volumes totaled 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 1.9 million ounces of gold and 67 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010, compared with 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 2.6 million ounces of gold and 58 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009. Lower consolidated copper sales volumes in 2010 primarily resulted from lower ore grades at Grasberg and lower volumes at our North America copper mines, partly offset by additional volumes provided by our Tenke mine in Africa. Lower consolidated gold sales volumes in 2010 primarily reflected lower ore grades at Grasberg from planned mine sequencing. Higher consolidated molybdenum sales volumes in 2010 reflected improved demand.Provisionally Priced SalesSubstantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices (refer to Disclosures About Market Risks Commodity Price Risk for further discussion). Adjustments to the December 31, 2010, provisionally priced copper sales resulted in unfavorable impacts to consolidated revenues of $12 million ($5 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2011. Adjustments to the December 31, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales resulted in unfavorable impacts to consolidated revenues of $24 million ($10 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2010. Adjustments to the December 31, 2008, provisionally priced copper sales 76Table of Contentsresulted in favorable impacts to consolidated revenues of $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.07 per share) in 2009. The year 2011 also reflected unfavorable impacts of $13 million from adjustments to December 31, 2010, provisionally priced gold sales.Purchased Copper and MolybdenumFrom time to time we purchase copper cathode for processing by our Rod & Refining segment when production from our North America copper mines does not meet customer demand. The increases in purchased copper in 2011 and 2010, compared with prior years, resulted from higher customer demand and higher copper prices. We also purchase molybdenum concentrates when customer demand requires it. Partly offsetting increases in purchased copper were decreases in purchased molybdenum in 2011 and 2010, compared with prior years. Atlantic Copper RevenuesThe increases in Atlantic Coppers revenues in 2011 and 2010, compared with prior years, primarily reflected higher copper and gold revenues associated with higher copper and gold prices. Production and Delivery Costs2011 Compared with 2010Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $9.9 billion in 2011, compared with $8.3 billion in 2010. Higher production and delivery costs for 2011 primarily reflect increased mining and milling activities in North America, higher input costs at our mining operations, higher costs of concentrate purchases at Atlantic Copper associated with higher copper and gold prices and higher costs of copper cathode purchases in North America associated with higher copper prices.Consolidated unit site production and delivery costs for our copper mining operations averaged $1.72 per pound of copper in 2011, compared with $1.40 per pound of copper in 2010. Higher site production and delivery costs in 2011 primarily reflected lower copper sales volumes in Indonesia and increased mining and input costs in North and South America and Africa. Consolidated unit net cash costs in 2011 also included $116 million ($0.03 per pound) primarily related to bonuses for new labor agreements and other employee costs in Indonesia and South America. Refer to Operations Unit Net Cash Costs for further discussion of unit net cash costs associated with our operating divisions, and to Product Revenues and Production Costs for reconciliations of per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements.Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. Energy costs approximated 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs in 2011, and included purchases of approximately 225 million gallons of diesel fuel; 6,475 gigawatt hours of electricity at our North America, South America and Africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation); 650 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia; and 1 million MMBTU (million British thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. For 2012, we estimate energy costs will approximate 23 percent of our consolidated copper production costs.2010 Compared with 2009Consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $8.3 billion in 2010, compared with $7.0 billion in 2009. Higher production and delivery costs for 2010 primarily reflect higher input costs at our mining operations and higher costs of concentrate purchases at Atlantic Copper associated with higher copper prices.Depreciation, Depletion and AmortizationConsolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.0 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009. Depreciation will vary under the UOP method as a result of increases and decreases in sales volumes and the related UOP rates at our mining operations.Selling, General and Administrative ExpensesConsolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $415 million in 2011, $381 million in 2010 and $321 million in 2009. Higher selling, general and administrative expenses in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily reflected higher charitable contributions. Approximately half of the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2010, compared with 2009, reflected higher stock based compensation and other incentive compensation costs related to improved financial performance.77Table of ContentsExploration and Research ExpensesConsolidated exploration and research expenses totaled $271 million in 2011, $143 million in 2010 and $90 million in 2009. We are conducting exploration activities near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where we currently operate. Exploration results indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in North and South America and in the Tenke minerals district. The drilling data in North America continue to indicate the potential for expanded sulfide production.For 2012, exploration and research expenditures are being increased to an estimated $330 million, including approximately $275 million for exploration. Exploration activities will continue to focus primarily on the potential for future reserve additions in our existing minerals districts.Environmental Obligations and Shutdown CostsEnvironmental obligations costs reflect net revisions to our long term environmental obligations, which will vary from period to period because of changes to environmental laws and regulations and or circumstances affecting our operations and could result in significant changes in our estimates (refer to "Critical Accounting Estimates Environmental Obligations" for further discussion). Shutdown costs include care and maintenance costs and any litigation, remediation, or related expenditures associated with closed facilities or operations. Environmental obligations and shutdown costs totaled $134 million in 2011, $19 million in 2010 and $106 million in 2009 (which also included net restructuring charges of $23 million in 2009). Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of environmental obligations and litigation matters associated with closed facilities or operations.Interest Expense, NetConsolidated interest expense (before capitalization) totaled $421 million in 2011, $528 million in 2010 and $664 million in 2009. Lower interest expense primarily reflected the impact of debt repayments during 2011, 2010 and 2009 (refer to Note 9 for discussion of debt repayments). Capitalized interest is primarily related to our development projects and totaled $109 million in 2011, $66 million in 2010 and $78 million in 2009. Refer to "Operations" for further discussion of current development projects.Losses on Early Extinguishment of DebtDuring 2011, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $68 million ($60 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.06 per share) associated with the redemption of our 8.25% Senior Notes, the revolving credit facilities that were replaced in March 2011 and open market purchases of our 9.50% Senior Notes.During 2010, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $81 million ($71 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.07 per share) associated with the redemption of our Senior Floating Rate Notes and open market purchases of our 8.25%, 8.375% and 9.50% Senior Notes.During 2009, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $48 million ($43 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.04 per share) associated with the redemption of our 6.875% Senior Notes and open market purchases of our 8.25%, 8.375% and 8% Senior Notes.Refer to Note 9 for further discussion of these transactions.78Table of ContentsProvision for Income TaxesFollowing is a summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except percentages): Year EndedDecember 31, 2011 Year EndedDecember 31, 2010 Incomea EffectiveTax Rate Income TaxProvision Income(Loss)a EffectiveTax Rate Income Tax(Provision)Benefit U.S.$2,112 23% $(478) $1,307 19% $(244) South America3,017 36% (1,075)b 2,995 33% (999) Indonesia2,923 43% (1,256) 4,069 42% (1,709) Africa357 34% (120) 395 30% (118) Eliminations and other409 N/A (158) (254) N/A 87 Consolidated FCX$8,818 35% $(3,087) $8,512 35% $(2,983) a.Represents income (loss) by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings.b.On September 29, 2011, Peru enacted its new mining tax and royalty regime. Under the new regime, companies that do not have stability agreements will be subject to a revised royalty and a special mining tax. Cerro Verde operates under a stability agreement and therefore, is not subject to the revised royalty and special mining tax until its stability agreement expires on December 31, 2013. The Peruvian government has also created a special mining burden that companies with stability agreements can elect to pay. The special mining burden is levied on profits and is based on a sliding scale of 4 to 13 percent, with a maximum effective rate of 8.79 percent. Cerro Verde will elect to pay this special mining burden during the remaining term of its stability agreement. As a result, Cerro Verde recognized additional current and deferred tax expense of $53 million ($49 million net of noncontrolling interests) in 2011. The deferred portion of this accrual relates primarily to the assets recorded in connection with the 2007 acquisition of FMC.Our estimated consolidated effective tax rate for 2012 will vary with commodity price changes and the mix of income from international and U.S. operations. Assuming average prices of $3.50 per pound for copper, $1,600 per ounce for gold, $13 per pound for molybdenum and current sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate our annual consolidated effective tax rate will approximate 34 percent.Following is a summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for 2009 (in millions, except percentages): Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Income(Loss)a EffectiveTax Rate Income Tax(Provision)Benefit U.S.$98 36% $(35)b South America2,010 32% (650) Indonesia4,000 42% (1,697) Africa(60) 25% 15 Eliminations and other(232) N/A 60 Consolidated FCX$5,816 40%c $(2,307) a.Represents income (loss) by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies net earnings.b.Includes a favorable adjustment totaling $43 million resulting from completion of a review of U.S. deferred income tax accounts.c.The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 40 percent and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia, which was taxed at an effective tax rate of 42 percent.Refer to Note 12 for further discussion of income taxes.79Table of ContentsOPERATIONSNorth America Copper MinesWe currently operate seven copper mines in North America Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita and Miami in Arizona, and Tyrone and Chino in New Mexico. All of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci, an unincorporated joint venture, in which we own an 85 percent undivided interest.The North America copper mines include open pit mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations. Molybdenum concentrate is also produced by certain of our North America copper mines (primarily Sierrita, Bagdad and Morenci). A majority of the copper produced at our North America copper mines is cast into copper rod by our Rod & Refining operations. The remainder of our North America copper sales is primarily in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate.Operating and Development Activities. During 2011 and 2010, we increased production at our North America copper mines, which had been curtailed in late 2008 because of weak market conditions. Further discussion of the development projects at our North America copper mines is presented below. We also have a number of opportunities to invest in additional production capacity at several of our North America copper mines. Exploration results in recent years indicate the potential for additional sulfide development in North America.Morenci Mine Ramp up and Mill Restart. During second quarter 2011, we completed the ramp up of Morencis mining rates to 635,000 metric tons of ore per day and milling rates to approximately 50,000 metric tons of ore per day, resulting in increased copper production of approximately 125 million pounds of copper per year. We are advancing a feasibility study to expand mining and milling capacity at Morenci to process additional sulfide ore identified through exploratory drilling. This project, which would require significant investment, would increase milling rates from the current level of 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day and target incremental annual copper production of approximately 225 million pounds. Completion of the feasibility study is expected in the first half of 2012.Chino Restart. During 2011, mining and milling activities were restarted at the Chino mine. Production at Chino, which totaled 69 million pounds of copper in 2011, is expected to increase to approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year by 2014. Costs for the project associated with equipment and mill refurbishment are expected to approximate $175 million. Project costs of $105 million have been incurred as of December 31, 2011.Miami Restart. The ramp up of mining activities at the Miami mine is complete. Production at Miami totaled 66 million pounds of copper in 2011, and is expected to be similar in 2012.Safford Sulphur Burner. During 2011, we completed construction of the $150 million sulphur burner project at the Safford mine, which is providing a more cost effective source of sulphuric acid used in SX/EW operations and lower transportation costs.Twin Buttes. In December 2009, we purchased the Twin Buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994, and is adjacent to our Sierrita mine. The purchase provides significant synergies in the Sierrita minerals district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for Sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. We are conducting drilling on the property and metallurgical studies to support a feasibility study expected to commence in 2012.80Table of ContentsOperating Data. Following is summary operating data for the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31. 2011 2010 2009Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production1,258 1,067 1,147Sales, excluding purchases1,247 1,085 1,187Average realized price per pound$3.99 $3.42 $2.38 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productiona35 25 25 100% Operating Data SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day)888,300 648,800 589,400Average copper ore grade (percent)0.24 0.24 0.29Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds)801 746 859 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day)222,800 189,200 169,900Average ore grade (percent): Copper0.38 0.32 0.33Molybdenum0.03 0.03 0.02Copper recovery rate (percent)83.1 83.0 86.0Production (millions of recoverable pounds): Copper549 398 364Molybdenum35 25 25a.Reflects molybdenum production from certain of our North America copper mines. Sales of molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum division.2011 Compared with 2010Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines increased to 1.2 billion pounds in 2011, compared with 1.1 billion pounds in 2010, primarily reflecting increased production at the Morenci, Miami and Chino mines. Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines are expected to approximate 1.3 billion pounds in 2012. Molybdenum production from our North America copper mines is expected to approximate 30 million pounds in 2012.2010 Compared with 2009Copper sales volumes from our North America copper mines decreased to 1.1 billion pounds in 2010, compared with 1.2 billion pounds in 2009, primarily because of anticipated lower ore grades at Safford and Sierrita, lower mill throughput because of unscheduled crusher maintenance at Bagdad and mill maintenance at Sierrita. 81Table of ContentsUnit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.Gross Profit per Pound of Copper and MolybdenumThe following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at the North America copper mines for the years ended December 31. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method ProductMethod Copper Molyb denuma ProductMethod Copper Molyb denumaRevenues, excluding adjustments$3.99 $3.99 $15.72 $3.42 $3.42 $15.60Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1.78 1.60 6.86 1.50 1.35 7.95By product creditsa(0.48) (0.35) Treatment charges0.11 0.10 0.09 0.09 Unit net cash costs1.41 1.70 6.86 1.24 1.44 7.95Depreciation, depletion and amortization0.21 0.20 0.39 0.24 0.22 0.54Noncash and other costs, net0.07 0.07 0.05 0.12 0.12 0.01Total unit costs1.69 1.97 7.30 1.60 1.78 8.50Revenue adjustments Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs(0.06) (0.06) (0.04) (0.08) (0.08) (0.02)Gross profit per pound$2.24 $1.96 $8.38 $1.74 $1.56 $7.08 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds)1,244 1,244 1,082 1,082 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)b 35 25a.Molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita.b.Reflects molybdenum produced by certain of our North America copper mines.Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines increased to $1.41 per pound of copper in 2011, compared with $1.24 per pound in 2010, primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.28 per pound) resulting from increased mining and milling activities and higher input costs. Partly offsetting higher site production and delivery costs were higher molybdenum credits ($0.13 per pound) primarily resulting from higher molybdenum volumes.Our operating North America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2011, average unit net cash costs for the North America copper mines ranged from a net cost of $0.41 per pound to $1.97 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.41 per pound. Assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and an average price of $13 per pound of molybdenum for 2012, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines would approximate $1.67 per pound of copper in 2012. North Americas average unit net cash costs for 2012 would change by approximately $0.04 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum during 2012. Higher projected unit net cash costs in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflect higher mining and milling rates and lower by product credits associated with lower molybdenum grades and prices, partly offset by higher projected copper volumes. 82Table of Contents 2010 2009 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method ProductMethod Copper Molyb denuma ProductMethod Copper Molyb denumaRevenues, excluding adjustments$3.42 $3.42 $15.60 $2.38 $2.38 $10.96Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1.50 1.35 7.95 1.25 1.15 5.67By product creditsa(0.35) (0.23) Treatment charges0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09 Unit net cash costs1.24 1.44 7.95 1.11 1.24 5.67Depreciation, depletion and amortization0.24 0.22 0.54 0.22 0.21 0.40Noncash and other costs, net0.12 0.12 0.01 0.11 0.11 0.07Total unit costs1.60 1.78 8.50 1.44 1.56 6.14Revenue adjustments 0.08 0.08 Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs(0.08) (0.08) (0.02) (0.08) (0.08) Gross profit per pound$1.74 $1.56 $7.08 $0.94 $0.82 $4.82 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds)1,082 1,082 1,185 1,185 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)b 25 25a.Molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita.b.Reflects molybdenum produced by certain of our North America copper mines.Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our North America copper mines increased to $1.24 per pound of copper in 2010, compared with $1.11 per pound in 2009, primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.25 per pound) associated with higher input costs and increased mining and milling activities at certain mines. Partly offsetting these higher costs were higher molybdenum credits ($0.12 per pound) primarily resulting from higher molybdenum prices.Some of our U.S. copper rod customers request a fixed market price instead of the COMEX average price in the month of shipment. We hedge this price exposure in a manner that allows us to receive market prices in the month of shipment while the customer pays the fixed price they requested. Because these contracts previously did not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, revenue adjustments in 2009 reflected unrealized gains on these copper derivative contracts (refer to Note 15 for further discussion).South America MiningWe operate four copper mines in South America Cerro Verde in Peru, and El Abra, Candelaria and Ojos del Salado in Chile. We own a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, a 51 percent interest in El Abra and an 80 percent interest in both Candelaria and Ojos del Salado. South America mining includes open pit and underground mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and SX/EW operations. Production from our South America mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under long term contracts. Our South America mines ship a portion of their copper concentrate inventories to Atlantic Copper, an affiliated smelter. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine also produces molybdenum concentrates, and the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines also produce gold and silver.Operating and Development Activities. El Abra Sulfide. During 2011, we commenced production from El Abras newly commissioned stacking and leaching facilities to transition from production of oxide to sulfide ores. Production from the sulfide ore will approximate 300 million pounds of copper per year, replacing the depleting oxide copper production. The aggregate capital investment for this project is expected to total $725 million through 2015, of which approximately $580 million is for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in first quarter 2012. Project costs of $513 million have been incurred as of December 31, 2011 ($152 million during 2011).We are also engaged in pre feasibility studies for a potential large scale milling operation at El Abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. Exploration results at El Abra indicate the potential for a significant sulfide resource. Exploration activities are continuing.83Table of ContentsCerro Verde Expansion. At Cerro Verde, plans for a large scale concentrator expansion continue to be advanced. The approximate $4 billion project would expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. An environmental impact assessment was filed in fourth quarter 2011.An agreement has been reached with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Arequipa S. A (SEDAPAR) and other local institutions to allow Cerro Verde to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant for Arequipa, should Cerro Verde proceed with the expansion. Once Cerro Verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion.Candelaria Water. As part of our overall strategy to supply water to the Candelaria mine, we completed construction of a pipeline to bring water from a nearby water treatment facility. In addition, we have completed engineering and began construction for a desalination plant that will supply Candelarias longer term water needs. The plant is expected to be completed in early 2013 at a capital investment of approximately $300 million. Project costs of $126 million have been incurred as of December 31, 2011 ($120 million during 2011).Other Matters. In fourth quarter 2011, there was an approximate two month labor strike at Cerro Verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. The strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three year agreement with the union was reached in late December 2011. Also during fourth quarter 2011, El Abra negotiated a new four year labor agreement with its union, which will replace the agreement scheduled to expire in July 2012. In December 2011, bonuses totaling $50 million were paid to employees at Cerro Verde and El Abra pursuant to the new labor agreements. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the South America mining operations for the years ended December 31. 2011 2010 2009Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production1,306 1,354 1,390Sales1,322 1,335 1,394Average realized price per pound$3.77 $3.68 $2.70 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production101 93 92Sales101 93 90Average realized price per ounce$1,580 $1,263 $982 Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productiona10 7 2 SX/EW operations Leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day)245,200 268,800 258,200Average copper ore grade (percent)0.50 0.41 0.45Copper production (millions of recoverable pounds)439 504 565 Mill operations Ore milled (metric tons per day)189,200 188,800 181,300Average ore grade: Copper (percent)0.66 0.65 0.66Gold (grams per metric ton)0.12 0.10 0.10Molybdenum (percent)0.02 0.02 0.02Copper recovery rate (percent)89.6 90.0 88.9Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds)867 850 825Gold (thousands of ounces)101 93 92Molybdenum (millions of pounds)10 7 2a.Reflects molybdenum production from at Cerro Verde mine. Sales of molybdenum are reflected in the Molybdenum division.84Table of Contents2011 Compared with 2010Copper sales volumes from our South America mining operations totaled 1.3 billion pounds in 2011 and 2010, primarily reflecting lower mining rates at El Abra as it transitions from oxide to sulfide ores, partially offset by higher ore grades at Candelaria. Consolidated sales volumes from our South America mines are expected to approximate 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold in 2012, slightly lower than 2011 sales. Lower projected ore grades at Cerro Verde and Candelaria in 2012 are expected to be partly offset by higher production at El Abra. Molybdenum production from Cerro Verde is expected to approximate 10 million pounds in 2012.2010 Compared with 2009Copper sales volumes from our South America mining operations decreased to 1.3 billion pounds in 2010, compared with 1.4 billion in 2009, primarily reflecting anticipated lower ore grades at El Abra.Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.Gross Profit per Pound of CopperThe following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at our South America mining operations for the years ended December 31. These tables reflect unit net cash costs per pound of copper under the by product and co product methods as our South America mining operations also had small amounts of molybdenum, gold and silver sales. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of the by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 By ProductMethod Co ProductMethod By ProductMethod Co ProductMethodRevenues, excluding adjustments$3.77 $3.77 $3.68 $3.68Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1.38a 1.27 1.21 1.14By product credits(0.35) (0.21) Treatment charges0.17 0.17 0.15 0.15Unit net cash costs1.20 1.44 1.15 1.29Depreciation, depletion and amortization0.20 0.18 0.19 0.18Noncash and other costs, net0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01Total unit costs1.42 1.64 1.35 1.48Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales0.01 (0.01) (0.01)Other non inventoriable costs(0.04) (0.03) (0.04) (0.04)Gross profit per pound$2.32 $2.10 $2.28 $2.15 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds)1,322 1,322 1,335 1,335a.Includes impacts of $50 million ($0.04 per pound) associated with bonuses paid at Cerro Verde and El Abra pursuant to the new labor agreements. Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America mining operations increased to $1.20 per pound of copper in 2011, compared with $1.15 per pound in 2010, primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.17 per pound) associated with higher input costs and the impact of bonuses paid pursuant to new labor agreements, partially offset by higher gold, molybdenum and silver credits ($0.14 per pound).85Table of ContentsOur South America mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by products and other factors. During 2011, unit net cash costs for the South America mines ranged from $0.93 per pound to $1.67 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.20 per pound. Assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and average prices of $1,600 per ounce of gold and $13 per pound of molybdenum in 2012, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America mining operations would approximate $1.41 per pound of copper in 2012. Higher projected unit net cash costs in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflect increases in input costs, including labor and energy, lower by product credits and slightly lower projected volumes. 2010 2009 By ProductMethod Co ProductMethod By ProductMethod Co ProductMethodRevenues, excluding adjustments$3.68 $3.68 $2.70 $2.70Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1.21 1.14 1.08 1.02By product credits(0.21) (0.11) Treatment charges0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15Unit net cash costs1.15 1.29 1.12 1.17Depreciation, depletion and amortization0.19 0.18 0.20 0.19Noncash and other costs, net0.01 0.01 0.02 0.02Total unit costs1.35 1.48 1.34 1.38Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(0.01) (0.01) 0.08 0.08Other non inventoriable costs(0.04) (0.04) (0.02) (0.02)Gross profit per pound$2.28 $2.15 $1.42 $1.38 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds)1,335 1,335 1,394 1,394Unit net cash costs (net of by product credits) for our South America mining operations increased to $1.15 per pound of copper in 2010, compared with $1.12 per pound in 2009, primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.13 per pound) associated with higher input costs and the impact of higher copper prices on profit sharing programs. Partly offsetting higher site production and delivery costs were higher molybdenum, gold and silver credits ($0.10 per pound) associated with higher molybdenum volumes and prices and higher gold prices.Indonesia MiningIndonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg minerals district. We own 90.64 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, including 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama.PT Freeport Indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver. Substantially all of PT Freeport Indonesias copper concentrates are sold under long term contracts, of which approximately one half is sold to affiliated smelters, Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting (PT Freeport Indonesias 25 percent owned copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia refer to Note 2 for further discussion), and the remainder to other customers.Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of our joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc and to Note 14 for further discussion of PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work with the Government of Indonesia. Refer to "Risk Factors" contained in Part I, Item 1A of our annual report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011, for discussion of risks associated with operations in Indonesia.Development Activities. We have several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of the large scale, high grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit. In aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the Grasberg open pit in 2016. Over the next five years, aggregate capital spending on these projects is expected to average $700 million per year ($550 million per year net to PT Freeport Indonesia). Considering the long term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates.86Table of ContentsThe following provides additional information on these projects, including the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, the Grasberg Block Cave and Big Gossan underground mines and development of the Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) ore body, that lies below the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground mine.Common Infrastructure and Underground Mines. In 2004, PT Freeport Indonesia commenced its Common Infrastructure project to provide access to its large undeveloped underground ore bodies located in the Grasberg minerals district through a tunnel system located approximately 400 meters deeper than its existing underground tunnel system. In addition to providing access to our underground ore bodies, the tunnel system will enable PT Freeport Indonesia to conduct future exploration in prospective areas associated with currently identified ore bodies. The tunnel system was completed to the Big Gossan terminal and the Big Gossan mine has been brought into production. We have also advanced development of both the DMLZ and Grasberg spurs, and have completed the tunneling required to reach these underground ore bodies. The Grasberg Block Cave underground mine accounts for over one third of our reserves in Indonesia. Production at the Grasberg Block Cave mine is currently scheduled to commence at the end of mining the Grasberg open pit, which is currently expected to continue until mid 2016. The timing of the transition to underground Grasberg Block Cave mine development will continue to be assessed. Targeted production rates once the Grasberg Block Cave mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 160,000 metric tons of ore per day.Aggregate mine development capital for the Grasberg Block Cave mine and associated Common Infrastructure is expected to approximate $4.2 billion (incurred from 2008 to 2021), with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $3.8 billion. Aggregate project costs totaling $569 million have been incurred through December 31, 2011 ($309 million during 2011). Big Gossan. The Big Gossan underground mine is a high grade deposit located near PT Freeport Indonesias existing milling complex. The Big Gossan mine is being developed as an open stope mine with backfill consisting of mill tailings and cement, an established mining methodology. Production, which began in fourth quarter 2010, is designed to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by mid 2013 (equal to average annual aggregate incremental production of 125 million pounds of copper and 65,000 ounces of gold, with PT Freeport Indonesia receiving 60 percent of these amounts). The aggregate capital investment for this project is currently estimated at approximately $550 million, with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $518 million. Aggregate project costs of $494 million have been incurred through December 31, 2011 ($50 million during 2011).DMLZ. The DMLZ ore body lies below the DOZ mine at the 2,590 meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the Ertsberg East Skarn system and neighboring Ertsberg porphyry. We plan to mine the ore body using a block cave method with production beginning in 2015, near completion of mining at the DOZ mine. Drilling efforts continue to determine the extent of this ore body. We continue to develop the Common Infrastructure project and tunnels from mill level. In 2009, we completed a portion of the spur to the DMLZ mine and reached the edge of the DMLZ terminal and development continued on terminal infrastructure and mine access in 2011. Aggregate mine development capital costs for the DMLZ are expected to approximate $2.2 billion (incurred from 2009 to 2020), with PT Freeport Indonesias share totaling approximately $1.3 billion. Aggregate project costs totaling $269 million have been incurred through December 31, 2011 ($166 million during 2011). Targeted production rates once the DMLZ mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day.Other Matters. During 2011, PT Freeport Indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including the eight day work stoppage in July 2011 and the approximate three month strike that concluded in December 2011. Additionally, PT Freeport Indonesias milling operations were temporarily suspended during fourth quarter 2011 because of damage to concentrate and fuel pipelines resulting from civil unrest that occurred during the strike. Repairs to the damaged pipelines are substantially complete, and PT Freeport Indonesia has begun ramping up production. PT Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the Government of Indonesia to address security issues. Maintaining security is a requirement of returning to normal operations. Although a new labor agreement has been reached, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at PT Freeport Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. Certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. On February 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. We are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. The work interruptions and temporary suspension of 87Table of Contentsoperations at PT Freeport Indonesia may impact our ability to achieve projected sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flows in 2012. In mid December 2011, the financial terms of a new two year labor agreement for PT Freeport Indonesia were reached. Pursuant to the terms, PT Freeport Indonesia agreed to increase base wages by 24 percent in the first year and 13 percent in the second year (equivalent to a 40 percent increase over two years on a compound basis). PT Freeport Indonesia also paid a bonus equivalent to three months of base wages and agreed to provide other benefits, including enhancements to housing allowances, educational assistance and retirement savings plans. The parties also agreed that future wage negotiations would be based on living costs and the competitiveness of wages within Indonesia. The impact of the terms agreed to in PT Freeport Indonesias new labor agreement, including the bonuses and other strike related employee costs, totaled approximately $66 million for 2011.Between July 2009 and February 2012, there were 32 shooting incidents in and around the Grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 56 injuries. The investigation of these matters is continuing. We have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. The Indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. Prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. The safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and PT Freeport Indonesia is working cooperatively with the Government of Indonesia to address security issues. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31. 2011 2010 2009Operating Data, Net of Joint Venture Interest Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production846 1,222 1,412Sales846 1,214 1,400Average realized price per pound$3.85 $3.69 $2.65 Gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) Production1,272 1,786 2,568Sales1,270 1,765 2,543Average realized price per ounce$1,583 $1,271 $994 100% Operating Data Ore milled (metric tons per day):a Grasberg open pit112,900 149,800 166,300DOZ underground mine51,700 79,600 72,000Big Gossan underground mine1,500 800 Total166,100 230,200 238,300 Average ore grade: Copper (percent)0.79 0.85 0.98Gold (grams per metric ton)0.93 0.90 1.30Recovery rates (percent): Copper88.3 88.9 90.6Gold81.2 81.7 83.7Production (recoverable): Copper (millions of pounds)882 1,330 1,641Gold (thousands of ounces)1,444 1,964 2,984a.Amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at PT Freeport Indonesias mill facilities from each producing mine.2011 Compared with 2010Sales volumes from our Indonesia mining operations declined to 846 million pounds of copper and 1.3 million ounces of gold in 2011, compared with 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold in 2010. Lower copper and gold sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflect the impact of labor related disruptions and the temporary 88Table of Contentssuspension of milling operations in fourth quarter 2011 because of damage to the concentrate and fuel pipelines. The estimated impact of the labor and pipeline disruptions (net to PT Freeport Indonesia), including the eight day strike in July 2011, totaled approximately 235 million pounds of copper and approximately 275 thousand ounces of gold. At the Grasberg open pit, the sequencing of mining areas with varying ore grades also causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold. Consolidated sales volumes from our Indonesia mining operations are expected to approximate 930 million pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold for 2012. Gold sales in 2012 are projected to be lower than in 2011 because of mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit in 2012. Indonesias projected sales volumes for the year 2012 (which includes 210 million pounds of copper and 400 thousand ounces of gold in first quarter 2012) are under review. The achievement of projected 2012 sales volumes depends on a number of factors, including the timing of restoring full operations at Grasberg following the extended disruption in 2011 and because of recent work interruptions and the temporary suspension of operations.2010 Compared with 2009Sales volumes from our Indonesia mining operations decreased to 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold in 2010, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.5 million ounces of gold in 2009. Lower copper and gold sales volumes in 2010 primarily reflected mining in a lower grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first half of 2010.Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.Gross Profit per Pound of Copper/per Ounce of GoldThe following tables summarize the unit net cash costs (credits) and gross profit per pound of copper and per ounce of gold at our Indonesia mining operations for the years ended December 31. Refer to Production Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs (credits) per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method ProductMethod Copper Gold ProductMethod Copper GoldRevenues, excluding adjustments$3.85 $3.85 $1,583 $3.69 $3.69 $1,271Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below2.21a 1.34 551 1.53 1.01 347Gold and silver credits(2.47) (1.92) Treatment charges0.19 0.11 46 0.22 0.15 50Royalty on metals0.16 0.10 41 0.13 0.08 29Unit net cash costs (credits)0.09 1.55 638 (0.04) 1.24 426Depreciation and amortization0.25 0.16 63 0.21 0.14 48Noncash and other costs, net0.04 0.02 10 0.04 0.02 9Total unit costs0.38 1.73 711 0.21 1.40 483Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(0.01) (0.01) (13) (0.01) (0.01) 1Gross profit per pound/ounce$3.46 $2.11 $859 $3.47 $2.28 $789 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds)846 846 1,214 1,214 Gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,270 1,765a.Includes impacts of $66 million ($0.08 per pound) associated with bonuses and other strike related costs.89Table of ContentsUnit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) for our Indonesia mining operations averaged $0.09 per pound of copper in 2011, compared with a net credit of $0.04 per pound in 2010. Higher unit net cash costs primarily reflected higher site production and delivery costs ($0.68 per pound) primarily from lower copper sales volumes and the impact of bonuses and other strike related costs, partially offset by higher gold and silver credits ($0.55 per pound).Treatment charges vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper, and royalties vary with the volume of metals sold and the prices of copper and gold.Assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, and an average gold price of $1,600 per ounce for 2012, we estimate that average unit net cash costs for Indonesia (net of gold and silver credits) would approximate $0.98 per pound of copper for the year 2012. Indonesias unit net cash costs for 2012 would change by $0.06 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold during 2012. Higher projected unit net cash costs in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflect higher input costs, including labor and energy, and lower by product credits, partly offset by higher projected copper volumes. Quarterly unit net cash costs are expected to vary significantly with variations in quarterly metal sales volumes. 2010 2009 By Co Product Method By Co Product Method ProductMethod Copper Gold ProductMethod Copper GoldRevenues, excluding adjustments$3.69 $3.69 $1,271 $2.65 $2.65 $994Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1.53 1.01 347 1.05 0.62 232Gold and silver credits(1.92) (1.86) Treatment charges0.22 0.15 50 0.22 0.13 49Royalty on metals0.13 0.08 29 0.10 0.06 23Unit net cash (credits) costs(0.04) 1.24 426 (0.49) 0.81 304Depreciation and amortization0.21 0.14 48 0.20 0.11 43Noncash and other costs, net0.04 0.02 9 0.03 0.02 6Total unit costs (credits)0.21 1.40 483 (0.26) 0.94 353Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(0.01) (0.01) 1 0.04 0.04 2Gross profit per pound/ounce$3.47 $2.28 $789 $2.95 $1.75 $643 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds)1,214 1,214 1,400 1,400 Gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,765 2,543Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) increased to a net credit of $0.04 per pound of copper in 2010, compared with a net credit of $0.49 per pound in 2009, reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.48 per pound) primarily associated with lower copper sales volumes, higher input costs (including materials, labor and energy), higher maintenance and support costs and higher cost sharing under joint venture arrangements. Partly offsetting higher site production and delivery costs were higher gold and silver credits ($0.06 per pound) associated with higher gold prices.Africa MiningAfrica mining consists of the Tenke copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the DRC. The Tenke mine includes surface mining, leaching and SX/EW operations. Copper production from the Tenke mine is sold as copper cathode. In addition to copper, the Tenke mine produces cobalt hydroxide. All Africa mining operations are conducted by Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L. (TFM).In October 2010, the Government of the DRC concluded its review of TFMs existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. In connection with the review, TFM made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in December 2010 (refer to Note 14 for further discussion). In March 2011, the amendments were approved by a ministerial council; and a Presidential Decree, signed by the President and Prime Minister of the DRC, was issued in April 2011. After receiving the required government approval of the modifications to TFMs bylaws that reflect the agreement with the Government of the DRC, our effective ownership interest in the project will be reduced to 56.0 percent prospectively, compared to our current ownership interest of 57.75 percent.90Table of ContentsOperating and Development Activities. Our initial investment in the project approximated $2 billion, and we have received loan repayments of approximately $700 million through December 31, 2011.The milling facilities at Tenke, which were designed to process ore at a rate of 8,000 metric tons of ore per day, continue to perform above capacity, with throughput averaging 11,100 metric tons of ore per day in 2011. Mining rates have been increased to enable additional copper production from the initial project capacity of 250 million pounds of copper per year to ramp up to approximately 290 million pounds of copper per year.We are undertaking a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and increasing capacity. As part of the second phase, we are expanding the mill rate to 14,000 metric tons of ore per day and are constructing related processing facilities that would target the addition of approximately 150 million pounds of copper per year. The approximate $850 million project, which includes mill upgrades, additional mining equipment and a new tank house and sulphuric acid plant expansion, is targeted for completion in 2013. The second phase of the project will be funded with cash generated from operations, and where additional funds are required, we will fund 70 percent and Lundin Mining Corporation will fund 30 percent.We continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at Tenke. These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion. Future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including economic and market conditions and the business and investment climate in the DRC. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for our Africa mining operations for the years ended December 31. 2011 2010 2009a Copper (millions of recoverable pounds) Production281 265 154 Sales283 262 130 Average realized price per poundb$3.74 $3.45 $2.85 Cobalt (millions of recoverable pounds) Production25 20 N/Ac Sales25 20 N/Ac Average realized price per pound$9.99 $10.95 N/Ac Ore milled (metric tons per day)11,100 10,300 7,300 Average ore grade (percent): Copper3.41 3.51 3.69 Cobalt0.40 0.40 N/Ac Copper recovery rate (percent)92.5 91.4 92.1 a.Results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in March 2009.b.Includes adjustments for point of sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts.c.Comparative results for the 2009 periods have not been included as start up activities were still under way.2011 Compared with 2010Copper sales volumes from our Africa mining operations increased to 283 million pounds of copper in 2011, compared with 262 million pounds of copper in 2010, primarily reflecting higher production in 2011. Consolidated sales volumes from our Africa mining operations are expected to approximate 290 million pounds of copper and 25 million pounds of cobalt in 2012.2010 Compared with 2009Copper sales volumes from our Africa mining operations increased to 262 million pounds of copper in 2010, compared with 130 million pounds of copper in 2009, reflecting higher operating rates and a full year of production in 2010. 91Table of ContentsUnit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.Gross Profit per Pound of Copper and CobaltThe following table summarizes the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of copper and cobalt at our Africa mining operations for the years ended December 31. Comparative information for the 2009 period has not been included as start up activities were still under way. Refer to Production Revenues and Production Costs for an explanation of by product and co product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 By Product Co Product Method By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Cobalt Method Copper CobaltRevenues, excluding adjustmentsa$3.74 $3.74 $9.99 $3.45 $3.45 $10.95Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1.57 1.39 5.58 1.40 1.23 5.78Cobalt creditsb(0.58) (0.58) Royalty on metals0.08 0.07 0.16 0.08 0.06 0.19Unit net cash costs1.07 1.46 5.74 0.90 1.29 5.97Depreciation, depletion and amortization0.50 0.42 0.78 0.49 0.41 1.03Noncash and other costs, net0.16 0.14 0.25 0.11 0.10 0.23Total unit costs1.73 2.02 6.77 1.50 1.80 7.23Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.06 0.18Other non inventoriable costs(0.04) (0.04) (0.07) (0.08) (0.07) (0.16)Gross profit per pound$1.97 $1.68 $3.21 $1.87 $1.58 $3.74 Copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds)283 283 262 262 Cobalt sales (millions of contained pounds) 25 20a.Includes adjustments for point of sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts.b.Net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs.Unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) for our Africa mining operations of $1.07 per pound of copper in 2011 were higher than unit net cash costs of $0.90 per pound of copper in 2010 reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.17 per pound) mostly associated with increased mining and milling activity and higher input costs. Assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and an average cobalt price of $12 per pound for 2012, we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) would approximate $1.13 per pound of copper in 2012. Higher projected unit net cash costs in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflect lower cobalt credits, partly offset by higher projected copper volumes. Africas unit net cash costs for 2012 would change by $0.11 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of cobalt during 2012.92Table of ContentsMolybdenumWe are an integrated producer of molybdenum, with mining, sulfide ore concentrating, roasting and processing facilities that produce high purity, molybdenum based chemicals, molybdenum metal powder and metallurgical products, which are sold to customers around the world. Our molybdenum operations include the wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities. The Henderson underground mine produces high purity, chemical grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value added molybdenum chemical products. The Molybdenum operations also include the wholly owned Climax molybdenum mine in Colorado (refer to further discussion below); a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from our Henderson mine and from certain of our North and South America mines that produce molybdenum; and related conversion facilities that, at times, roast and or process material on a toll basis for third parties. Toll arrangements require the tolling customer to deliver appropriate molybdenum bearing material to our facilities for processing into a product that is returned to the customer, who pays us for processing their material into the specified products.Development Activities. Construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine are substantially complete, and we plan to commence production during 2012. Production from the Climax mine is expected to ramp up to a rate of 20 million pounds of molybdenum per year during 2013 and, depending on market conditions, may be increased to 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. We intend to operate our Climax and Henderson molybdenum mines in a flexible manner to meet market requirements. The cost of the initial phase of the project, most of which have been incurred (including $388 million in 2011), approximates $700 million. Operating Data. Following is summary operating data for the Molybdenum operations for the years ended December 31. 2011 2010 2009Molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) Productiona38 40 27Sales, excluding purchasesb79 67 58Average realized price per pound$16.98 $16.47 $12.36 Henderson molybdenum mine Ore milled (metric tons per day)22,300 22,900 14,900Average molybdenum ore grade (percent)0.24 0.25 0.25Molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds)38 40 27a.Reflects production at the Henderson molybdenum mine.b.Includes sales of molybdenum produced at our North and South America mines.2011 Compared with 2010Consolidated molybdenum sales volumes increased to 79 million pounds in 2011, compared with 67 million pounds for 2010, primarily reflecting improved demand. For the year 2012, we expect molybdenum sales volumes to approximate 80 million pounds, of which approximately 40 million pounds represents production from our North and South America copper mines.2010 Compared with 2009As a result of improved market conditions, Henderson operated at approximately 90 percent capacity during 2010, compared with 60 percent capacity during most of 2009. Molybdenum sales volumes increased to 67 million pounds in 2010, compared with 58 million pounds in 2009, reflecting improved demand in the chemicals sector.Unit Net Cash Costs. Unit net cash costs per pound of molybdenum is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.93Table of ContentsGross Profit per Pound of MolybdenumThe following table summarizes the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of molybdenum at our Henderson molybdenum mine for the years ended December 31. Refer to Product Revenues and Production Costs for a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 2009 Revenues, excluding adjustments$16.42 $15.89 $12.78 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below5.46 4.82 5.43 Treatment charges and other0.88 1.08 1.09 Unit net cash costs6.34 5.90 6.52 Depreciation, depletion and amortization0.96 0.83 0.98 Noncash and other costs, net0.04 0.03 0.04 Total unit costs7.34 6.76 7.54 Gross profit per pounda$9.08 $9.13 $5.24 Molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds)b38 40 27 a.Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum division includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table.b.Reflects molybdenum produced by the Henderson molybdenum mine.Hendersons unit net cash costs were $6.34 per pound of molybdenum in 2011, $5.90 per pound in 2010 and $6.52 per pound in 2009. Hendersons unit net cash costs in 2011 primarily reflect lower volumes and higher input costs, including labor and materials. Hendersons unit net cash costs in 2010 benefited from higher production volumes, partly offset by higher mining costs. Assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate unit net cash costs for Henderson would approximate $7.00 per pound of molybdenum in 2012.Atlantic Copper Smelting & RefiningAtlantic Copper, our wholly owned subsidiary located in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes. During 2011, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 17 percent of its concentrate requirements from our Indonesia mining operation and approximately 30 percent from our South America mining operations. Through this form of downstream integration, we are assured placement of a significant portion of our concentrate production. Smelting and refining charges consist of a base rate and, in certain contracts, price participation based on copper prices. Treatment charges for smelting and refining copper concentrates represent a cost to our Indonesia and our South America mining operations, and income to Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting, PT Freeport Indonesias 25 percent owned smelter and refinery. Thus, higher treatment and refining charges benefit our smelter operations and adversely affect our mining operations in Indonesia and South America (our North America copper mines are not significantly affected by changes in treatment and refining charges because these operations are largely integrated with our Miami smelter located in Arizona).In May 2011, Atlantic Copper successfully completed a scheduled 26 day maintenance turnaround, which had a $30 million impact on production and delivery costs in 2011. Atlantic Coppers major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with short term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. Atlantic Copper had operating losses of $69 million in 2011, $37 million in 2010, and $56 million in 2009. The decline in Atlantic Coppers operating results in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily reflects the impact of the May 2011 scheduled maintenance turnaround, lower gold credits and currency exchange rate impacts. Atlantic Coppers operating results in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily reflected higher sulphuric acid and gold revenues associated with higher prices.94Table of ContentsWe defer recognizing profits on sales from our Indonesia and South America mining operations to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of Indonesia mining sales to PT Smelting until final sales to third parties occur. Our net deferred profits on our Indonesia and South America mining operations concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income after taxes and noncontrolling interests totaled $42 million at December 31, 2011. Changes in these deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in a net increase to net income attributable to common stockholders of $139 million ($0.15 per share) in 2011, compared with net reductions of $67 million ($0.07 per share) in 2010 and net additions of $21 million ($0.02 per share) in 2009. Quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in our net deferred profits and quarterly earnings. Additionally, as PT Freeport Indonesias operations return to full operating rates, we expect to defer a significant amount of PT Freeport Indonesias profit on intercompany sales until sales to third parties occur. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITYOur operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. Strong operating performance and favorable copper and gold prices have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position, reduce debt and pay cash dividends to shareholders, while pursuing future growth opportunities. We view the long term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the worlds economy, and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change.Cash and Cash EquivalentsAt December 31, 2011, we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $4.8 billion. The following table reflects the U.S. and international components of consolidated cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in billions): 2011 2010Cash at domestic companiesa$2.4 $1.9Cash at international operations2.4 1.8Total consolidated cash and cash equivalents4.8 3.7Less: Noncontrolling interests share(0.8) (0.4)Cash, net of noncontrolling interests share4.0 3.3Less: Withholding taxes and other(0.1) (0.2)Net cash available$3.9 $3.1a.Includes cash at our parent company and North America operations.Cash held at our international operations is generally used to support our foreign operations capital expenditures, operating expenses, working capital or other cash needs. At December 31, 2011, management believed that sufficient liquidity was available in the U.S. With the exception of TFM, we have not elected to permanently reinvest earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, and we have recorded deferred tax liabilities for foreign earnings that are available to be repatriated to the U.S. From time to time, our foreign subsidiaries distribute earnings to the U.S. through dividends which are subject to applicable withholding taxes and noncontrolling interests share.Operating ActivitiesOur operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. During 2011, we generated operating cash flows totaling $6.6 billion, net of $461 million for working capital uses. Operating cash flows in 2010 totaled $6.3 billion, net of $834 million for working capital uses. Operating cash flows in 2009 totaled $4.4 billion, net of $770 million for working capital uses, which included approximately $600 million related to settlement of final pricing with customers on 2008 provisionally priced copper sales. Higher operating cash flows for 2011 and 2010, compared with prior years, primarily reflected higher copper and gold price realizations.Based on current mine plans and subject to future copper, gold and molybdenum prices, we expect estimated operating cash flows for the year 2012 plus available cash to be greater than our budgeted capital expenditures, expected debt payments, dividends, noncontrolling interest distributions and other cash requirements. Refer to Outlook for further discussion of projected 2012 operating cash flows.95Table of ContentsInvesting ActivitiesCapital Expenditures. Capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $2.5 billion in 2011 (including $1.4 billion for major projects), $1.4 billion in 2010 (including $0.7 billion for major projects) and $1.6 billion in 2009 (including $1.0 billion for major projects and the Twin Buttes property acquisition). The increase in capital expenditures in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily reflected higher capital spending for construction on the Climax molybdenum mine, the underground development projects at Grasberg and the expansion at Tenke. The decrease in capital expenditures in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily reflected lower capital spending for the initial Tenke development project for which construction activities were substantially complete by mid 2009, partly offset by higher spending associated with underground development projects at Grasberg and the sulfide ore project at El Abra.Capital expenditures for the year 2012 are expected to approximate $4.0 billion (including $2.4 billion for major projects), primarily associated with underground development activities at Grasberg, the expansion at Tenke Fungurume and the concentrator expansion at Cerro Verde. We are also considering additional investments at several of our sites. Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors. Refer to Operations for further discussion.Investment in McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR). In December 2010, we completed the purchase of 500,000 shares of MMRs 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock (the Preferred Stock) for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million. Dividends received in 2011 were recorded as a return of investment because of MMRs reported losses. Refer to Note 6 for further discussion. Financing ActivitiesDebt and Equity Transactions. Total debt approximated $3.5 billion at December 31, 2011, $4.8 billion at December 31, 2010, and $6.3 billion at December 31, 2009. During 2011, we redeemed the remaining $1.1 billion of our outstanding 8.25% Senior Notes. In addition, we made open market purchases of $35 million of our 9.5% Senior Notes and repaid the remaining $84 million of our 8.75% Senior Notes. During 2010, we redeemed all of our $1 billion Senior Floating Rate Notes, and also made open market purchases of $565 million of our senior notes. During 2009, we redeemed $340 million of our 6.875% Senior Notes, and also made open market purchases of $387 million of our senior notes. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion of these debt repayment transactions.Since January 1, 2009, we have repaid approximately $3.8 billion of our outstanding debt resulting in estimated annual interest savings of $260 million based on current interest rates. In February 2012, we sold $3.0 billion in senior notes in three tranches and announced our intent to redeem the remaining $3.0 billion of our 8.375% Senior Notes (refer to Note 20 for further discussion). We estimate annual interest savings associated with the refinancing to approximate $160 million.On March 30, 2011, we entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which replaced the revolving credit facilities that were scheduled to expire on March 19, 2012. This revolving credit facility is available until March 30, 2016, in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion, with $500 million available to PT Freeport Indonesia. At December 31, 2011, we had no borrowings and $44 million of letters of credit issued under the facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ($956 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). The revolving credit facility contains covenants that are typical for investment grade companies, including limitations on liens and subsidiary debt. The credit facility also includes financial ratios governing maximum total leverage and minimum interest coverage.In February 2009, we completed a public offering of 53.6 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $14.00 per share, which generated gross proceeds of $750 million (net proceeds of approximately $740 million after fees and expenses), which were used for general corporate purposes.We have an open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares, of which 23.7 million shares remain available. There have been no purchases since 2008. The timing of future purchases of our common stock is dependent on many factors, including our operating results; cash flows and financial position; copper, gold and molybdenum prices; the price of our common shares; and general economic and market conditions.96Table of ContentsDividends. Common stock dividends paid totaled $1.4 billion in 2011 and $885 million in 2010. There were no common stock dividends paid in 2009.After suspending dividends in late 2008, the Board reinstated a cash dividend on our common stock in October 2009 at an annual rate of $0.30 per share ($0.075 per share quarterly). The Board authorized increases in the annual cash dividend to an annual rate of $0.60 per share ($0.15 per share quarterly) in April 2010 and $1.00 per share ($0.25 per share quarterly) in October 2010. The Board also authorized supplemental common stock dividends of $0.50 per share paid in December 2010 and June 2011. In February 2012, the Board authorized an increase in the cash dividend on our common stock to an annual rate of $1.25 per share ($0.3125 per share quarterly). Dividends are paid quarterly as declared by the Board with the initial quarterly dividend of $0.3125 per share expected to be paid in May 2012. The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of the Board and will depend upon our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. The Board will continue to review our financial policy on an ongoing basis. Based on outstanding common shares of 948 million at December 31, 2011, and the current dividend rate, our estimated regular common stock dividend for 2012 approximates $1.1 billion.During 2010, our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock converted into 78.9 million shares of our common stock, and in 2009, we redeemed our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock in exchange for 35.8 million shares of our common stock (refer to Note 11 for further discussion). As a result of these transactions, we no longer have requirements to pay preferred stock dividends. Preferred stock dividends paid totaled $95 million in 2010 representing dividends on our 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock and $229 million in 2009 representing dividends on our 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock and 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Cash dividends and distributions paid to noncontrolling interests totaled $391 million in 2011, $816 million in 2010 and $535 million in 2009, reflecting dividends and distributions paid to the noncontrolling interest owners of PT Freeport Indonesia and our South America mines.CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONSWe have contractual and other long term obligations, including debt maturities, which we expect to fund with available cash, projected operating cash flows, availability under our revolving credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. A summary of these various obligations at December 31, 2011, follows (in millions): Total 2012 2013 to2014 2015 to2016 ThereafterReclamation and environmental obligationsa$4,975 $236 $360 $272 $4,107Debt maturities3,537 4 3,533Scheduled interest payment obligationsb1,974 285 571 572 546Take or pay contractsc2,085 1,338 397 113 237Operating lease obligations200 24 33 27 116Atlantic Copper obligation to insurance companyd49 9 18 19 3PT Freeport Indonesia mine closure and reclamation funde17 2 1 1 13Totalf$12,837 $1,898 $1,380 $1,004 $8,555a.Represents estimated cash payments, on an undiscounted and unescalated basis, associated with reclamation and environmental activities. The timing and the amount of these payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities and as actual spending occurs. Refer to Note 13 for additional discussion of environmental and reclamation matters.b.Scheduled interest payment obligations were calculated using stated coupon rates for fixed rate debt and interest rates applicable at December 31, 2011, for variable rate debt. As discussed in Note 20, in February 2012, we sold $3.0 billion in Senior Notes and announced our intent to redeem the remaining $3.0 billion of our 8.375% Senior Notes. We estimate annual interest savings associated with the refinancing to approximate $160 million.c.Represents contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services that are defined by us as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. Take or pay contracts primarily comprise the procurement of copper concentrates and cathodes ($1.1 billion), electricity ($338 million), transportation services ($293 million) and oxygen ($128 million). Some of our take or pay contracts are settled based on the prevailing market rate for the service or commodity purchased, and in some cases, the amount of the actual obligation may change over time because of market conditions. Obligations for copper concentrates and cathodes provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at market based prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper and the North America copper mines. Electricity obligations are primarily for 97Table of Contentscontractual minimum demand at the South America and Tenke mines. Transportation obligations are primarily for South America contracted ocean freight and for North America rail freight. Oxygen obligations provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at fixed prices, primarily to Atlantic Copper.d.In August 2002, Atlantic Copper complied with Spanish legislation by agreeing to fund 7.2 million euros annually for 15 years to an approved insurance company for an estimated 72 million euro contractual obligation to supplement amounts paid to certain retired employees. Atlantic Copper had $39 million recorded for this obligation at December 31, 2011.e.Represents PT Freeport Indonesias commitments to contribute amounts to a cash fund designed to accumulate at least $100 million, including interest, by the end of our Indonesia mining activities to be used for mine closure and reclamation.f.This table excludes certain other obligations in our consolidated balance sheets, including estimated funding for pension obligations as the funding may vary from year to year based on changes in the fair value of plan assets and actuarial assumptions, and accrued liabilities totaling $128 million that relate to unrecognized tax benefits where the timing of settlement is not determinable. This table also excludes purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services, as purchase orders typically represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.In addition to our debt maturities and other contractual obligations, we have other commitments, which we expect to fund with available cash, projected operating cash flows, available credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. These include (i) PT Freeport Indonesias commitment to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development, (ii) TFMs commitment to provide 0.3 percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations and (iii) other commercial commitments, including standby letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees. Refer to Notes 13 and 14 for further discussion.CONTINGENCIESEnvironmentalThe cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. At December 31, 2011, we had $1.5 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for environmental obligations attributed to CERCLA or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. Refer to Note 13 for further information about environmental regulation, including significant environmental matters.During 2011, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners shares) of $387 million for programs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations, compared to $372 million in 2010 and $289 million in 2009. The increase in environmental costs in 2011 and 2010, compared with 2009, primarily related to the settlement of environmental legal matters (see Note 13 for further discussion). For 2012, we expect to incur approximately $636 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2012 operating budget. The increase compared with 2011 primarily relates to higher spending for ongoing environmental remediation activities and higher environmental capital expenditures. The timing and amount of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities, and as actual spending occurs. Asset Retirement ObligationsWe recognize AROs as liabilities when incurred, with the initial measurement at fair value. These liabilities, which are initially estimated based on discounted cash flow estimates, are accreted to full value over time through charges to income. Reclamation costs for future disturbances are recorded as an ARO in the period of disturbance. Our cost estimates are reflected on a third party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible, long lived assets. At December 31, 2011, we had $921 million recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for AROs. Spending on AROs totaled $49 million in 2011, $38 million in 2010 and $28 million in 2009. For 2012, we expect to incur approximately $31 million for aggregate ARO payments. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs.Litigation and Other ContingenciesRefer to Note 13 for further discussion of contingencies associated with legal proceedings and other matters.98Table of ContentsDISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKSCommodity Price RiskOur consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, gold, molybdenum and other metals by our North and South America mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our Indonesia mining operations, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our Africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our Molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes and gold in anodes and slimes by Atlantic Copper. Our financial results can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. World market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Because we cannot control the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flow. Refer to Outlook for further discussion of projected sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flows for 2012.For 2011, 51 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 26 percent as cathodes and 23 percent as rod (principally from our North America copper mines). Substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. We receive market prices based on prices in the specified future period, which results in price fluctuations recorded through revenues until the date of settlement. We record revenues and invoice customers at the time of shipment based on then current LME prices, which results in an embedded derivative on our provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales that is adjusted to fair value through earnings each period, using the period end forward prices, until the date of final pricing. To the extent final prices are higher or lower than what was recorded on a provisional basis, an increase or decrease to revenues is recorded each reporting period until the date of final pricing. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs.At December 31, 2010, we had provisionally priced copper sales at our copper mining operations, primarily South America and Indonesia, totaling 417 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average of $4.36 per pound. Adjustments to the December 31, 2010, provisionally priced copper sales unfavorably impacted consolidated revenues by $12 million ($5 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2011, compared with adjustments to the December 31, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales that unfavorably impacted consolidated revenues by $24 million ($10 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2010, and adjustments to the December 31, 2008, provisionally priced copper sales that favorably impacted consolidated revenues by $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.07 per share) in 2009.At December 31, 2011, we had provisionally priced copper sales at our copper mining operations, primarily South America and Indonesia, totaling 252 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average price of $3.44 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. We estimate that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the December 31, 2011, provisional price recorded would have a net impact on our 2012 consolidated revenues of approximately $18 million ($9 million to net income attributable to common stockholders). The LME spot copper price closed at $3.81 per pound on February 15, 2012.On limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. We do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future.99Table of ContentsForeign Currency Exchange RiskThe functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol, euro and South African rand. Generally, our results are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Following is a summary of estimated annual payments and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs: Exchange Rate per $1at December 31, Estimated Annual Payments 10% Change inExchange Rate(in millions)b 2011 2010 2009 (in local currency) (in millions)a Increase DecreaseIndonesia Rupiah9,060 8,990 9,420 3.9 trillion $430 $(39) $48Australian dollar0.98 0.98 1.12 250 million $255 $(23) $28South America Chilean peso519 468 506 260 billion $501 $(46) $56Peruvian nuevo sol2.70 2.81 2.89 360 million $134 $(12) $15Atlantic Copper Euro0.77 0.75 0.69 130 million $168 $(15) $19Africa South African rand8.12 6.65 7.42 840 million $103 $(9) $11a.Based on December 31, 2011, exchange rates.b.Reflects the estimated impact on annual operating costs assuming a 10 percent increase or decrease in the exchange rate reported at December 31, 2011.Interest Rate RiskAt December 31, 2011, we had total debt of $3.5 billion, of which approximately 5 percent was variable rate debt with interest rates based on LIBOR or the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR). The table below presents average interest rates for our scheduled maturities of principal for our outstanding debt and the related fair values at December 31, 2011 (in millions, except percentages): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Fair ValueFixed rate debt$a $a $a $ $ $3,372 $3,632Average interest rate7.2% 6.7% 6.7% N/A N/A 8.3% 8.3% Variable rate debt$4 $ $ $ $ $161 $165Average interest rate%b N/A N/A N/A N/A 4.3% 4.2%a.Less than $1 million.b.Less than 0.01%.NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDSWe do not expect the provisions of recently issued accounting standards to have a significant impact on our future financial statements and disclosures. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSRefer to Note 14 for discussion of off balance sheet arrangements.100Table of ContentsPRODUCT REVENUES AND PRODUCTION COSTSUnit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. We use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.We present gross profit per pound of copper in the following tables using both a by product method and a co product method. We use the by product method in our presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of our revenues are copper revenues, (ii) we mine ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of our costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals we produce, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by our management and the Board to monitor operations. In the co product method presentation below, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change.We show adjustments for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because these adjustments do not result from current period sales, we have reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock based compensation costs, write offs of equipment and or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by product method. Following are presentations under both the by product and co product methods together with reconciliations to amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements.101Table of ContentsNorth America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production CostsYear Ended December 31, 2011 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb TotalRevenues, excluding adjustments$4,968 $4,968 $546 $111 $5,625Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below2,213 1,987 238 46 2,271By product creditsa(599) Treatment charges138 132 6 138Net cash costs1,752 2,119 238 52 2,409Depreciation, depletion and amortization264 247 13 4 264Noncash and other costs, net84 81 2 1 84Total costs2,100 2,447 253 57 2,757Revenue adjustments(1) (1) (1)Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs(82) (80) (2) (82)Gross profit$2,785 $2,440 $291 $54 $2,785 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$5,625 $2,271 $264 Treatment chargesN/A 138 N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 84 N/A Revenue adjustments(1) N/A N/A Idle facility and other non inventoriable costsN/A 82 N/A Eliminations and other9 54 15 North America copper mines5,633 2,629 279 South America mining5,258 1,905 258 Indonesia mining5,046 1,902 215 Africa mining1,289 591 140 Molybdenum1,424 1,036 60 Rod & Refining5,549 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,984 2,991 40 Corporate, other & eliminations(6,303) (6,683) 22 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$20,880 $9,898 $1,022 a.Molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita.b.Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs.102Table of ContentsNorth America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued)Year Ended December 31, 2010 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb TotalRevenues, excluding adjustments$3,702 $3,702 $383 $58 $4,143Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1,621 1,456 195 29 1,680By product creditsa(382) Treatment charges105 102 3 105Net cash costs1,344 1,558 195 32 1,785Depreciation, depletion and amortization256 241 13 2 256Noncash and other costs, net131 131 131Total costs1,731 1,930 208 34 2,172Revenue adjustments(2) (2) (2)Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs(87) (86) (1) (87)Gross profit$1,882 $1,684 $174 $24 $1,882 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$4,143 $1,680 $256 Treatment chargesN/A 105 N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 131 N/A Revenue adjustments(2) N/A N/A Idle facility and other non inventoriable costsN/A 87 N/A Eliminations and other32 49 17 North America copper mines4,173 2,052 273 South America mining4,991 1,678 250 Indonesia mining6,377 1,904 257 Africa mining1,106 488 128 Molybdenum1,205 784 51 Rod & Refining4,470 4,442 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations(5,831) (5,483) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$18,982 $8,335 $1,036 a.Molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita.b.Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. 103Table of ContentsNorth America Copper Mines Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued)Year Ended December 31, 2009 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Molybdenuma Otherb TotalRevenues, excluding adjustments$2,823 $2,823 $274 $45 $3,142Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1,483 1,364 142 22 1,528By product creditsa(274) Treatment charges102 100 2 102Net cash costs1,311 1,464 142 24 1,630Depreciation, depletion and amortization264 251 10 3 264Noncash and other costs, net129 127 2 129Total costs1,704 1,842 154 27 2,023Revenue adjustments92 92 92Idle facility and other non inventoriable costs(100) (100) (100)Gross profit$1,111 $973 $120 $18 $1,111 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$3,142 $1,528 $264 Treatment chargesN/A 102 N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 129 N/A Revenue adjustments92 N/A N/A Idle facility and other non inventoriable costsN/A 100 N/A Eliminations and other30 52 16 North America copper mines3,264 1,911 280 South America mining3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining389 315 66 Molybdenum847 660c 49 Rod & Refining3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations(4,455) (4,179) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$15,040 $7,006c $1,014 a.Molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market based pricing and also include tolling revenues at Sierrita.b.Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs.c.Includes lower of cost or market (LCM) molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 104Table of ContentsSouth America Mining Product Revenues and Production CostsYear Ended December 31, 2011 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Other TotalRevenues, excluding adjustments$4,989 $4,989 $477a $5,466Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1,826b 1,679 172 1,851By product credits(452) Treatment charges219 219 219Net cash costs1,593 1,898 172 2,070Depreciation, depletion and amortization258 242 16 258Noncash and other costs, net23 21 2 23Total costs1,874 2,161 190 2,351Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales15 (4) 19 15Other non inventoriable costs(59) (54) (5) (59)Gross profit$3,071 $2,770 $301 $3,071 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$5,466 $1,851 $258 Treatment charges(219) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 23 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales15 N/A N/A Other non inventoriable costsN/A 59 N/A Eliminations and other(4) (28) South America mining5,258 1,905 258 North America copper mines5,633 2,629 279 Indonesia mining5,046 1,902 215 Africa mining1,289 591 140 Molybdenum1,424 1,036 60 Rod & Refining5,549 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,984 2,991 40 Corporate, other & eliminations(6,303) (6,683) 22 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$20,880 $9,898 $1,022 a. Includes gold sales of 101 thousand ounces ($1,580 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 3.2 million ounces ($36.81 per ounce average realized price); also includes molybdenum sales of 10 million pounds ($13.78 per pound average realized price), which reflects molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde at market based pricing.b. Includes $50 million for bonuses paid at Cerro Verde and El Abra pursuant to the new labor agreements.105Table of ContentsSouth America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued)Year Ended December 31, 2010 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Other TotalRevenues, excluding adjustments$4,911 $4,911 $299a $5,210Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1,613 1,521 110 1,631By product credits(281) Treatment charges207 207 207Net cash costs1,539 1,728 110 1,838Depreciation, depletion and amortization249 237 12 249Noncash and other costs, net19 18 1 19Total costs1,807 1,983 123 2,106Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(14) (14) (14)Other non inventoriable costs(44) (40) (4) (44)Gross profit$3,046 $2,874 $172 $3,046 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$5,210 $1,631 $249 Treatment charges(207) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 19 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(14) N/A N/A Other non inventoriable costsN/A 44 N/A Eliminations and other2 (16) 1 South America mining4,991 1,678 250 North America copper mines4,173 2,052 273 Indonesia mining6,377 1,904 257 Africa mining1,106 488 128 Molybdenum1,205 784 51 Rod & Refining4,470 4,442 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations(5,831) (5,483) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$18,982 $8,335 $1,036 a. Includes gold sales of 93 thousand ounces ($1,263 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 2.7 million ounces ($20.53 per ounce average realized price); also includes molybdenum sales of 7 million pounds ($14.12 per pound average realized price), which reflects molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde at market based pricing.106Table of ContentsSouth America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued)Year Ended December 31, 2009 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Other TotalRevenues, excluding adjustments$3,768 $3,768 $167a $3,935Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1,512 1,429 91 1,520By product credits(159) Treatment charges206 206 206Net cash costs1,559 1,635 91 1,726Depreciation, depletion and amortization275 267 8 275Noncash and other costs, net28 28 28Total costs1,862 1,930 99 2,029Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales109 109 109Other non inventoriable costs(31) (26) (5) (31)Gross profit$1,984 $1,921 $63 $1,984 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$3,935 $1,520 $275 Treatment charges(206) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 28 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales109 N/A N/A Other non inventoriable costsN/A 31 N/A Eliminations and other1 (16) South America mining3,839 1,563 275 North America copper mines3,264 1,911 280 Indonesia mining5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining389 315 66 Molybdenum847 660b 49 Rod & Refining3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations(4,455) (4,179) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$15,040 $7,006b $1,014 a.Includes gold sales of 90 thousand ounces ($982 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 3.0 million ounces ($14.88 per ounce average realized price); also includes molybdenum sales of 2 million pounds ($7.74 per pound average realized price), which reflects molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde at market based pricing.b.Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million.107Table of ContentsIndonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production CostsYear Ended December 31, 2011 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Gold Silver TotalRevenues, excluding adjustments$3,261 $3,261 $2,011 $97a $5,369Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1,869b 1,135 700 34 1,869Gold and silver credits(2,090) Treatment charges156 95 58 3 156Royalty on metals137 83 52 2 137Net cash costs72 1,313 810 39 2,162Depreciation and amortization215 131 80 4 215Noncash and other costs, net33 20 12 1 33Total costs320 1,464 902 44 2,410Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(12) (12) (18) (30)Gross profit$2,929 $1,785 $1,091 $53 $2,929 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$5,369 $1,869 $215 Treatment charges(156) N/A N/A Royalty on metals(137) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 33 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(30) N/A N/A Indonesia mining5,046 1,902 215 North America copper mines5,633 2,629 279 South America mining5,258 1,905 258 Africa mining1,289 591 140 Molybdenum1,424 1,036 60 Rod & Refining5,549 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,984 2,991 40 Corporate, other & eliminations(6,303) (6,683) 22 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$20,880 $9,898 $1,022 a. Includes silver sales of 2.7 million ounces ($36.18 per ounce average realized price).b. Includes $66 million associated with bonuses and other strike related costs.108Table of ContentsIndonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued)Year Ended December 31, 2010 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Gold Silver TotalRevenues, excluding adjustments$4,475 $4,475 $2,243 $90a $6,808Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1,856 1,220 612 24 1,856Gold and silver credits(2,334) Treatment charges270 178 89 3 270Royalty on metals156 102 51 3 156Net cash (credits) costs(52) 1,500 752 30 2,282Depreciation and amortization257 169 85 3 257Noncash and other costs, net48 31 16 1 48Total costs253 1,700 853 34 2,587Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(6) (6) 1 (5)Gross profit$4,216 $2,769 $1,391 $56 $4,216 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$6,808 $1,856 $257 Treatment charges(270) N/A N/A Royalty on metals(156) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 48 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(5) N/A N/A Indonesia mining6,377 1,904 257 North America copper mines4,173 2,052 273 South America mining4,991 1,678 250 Africa mining1,106 488 128 Molybdenum1,205 784 51 Rod & Refining4,470 4,442 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations(5,831) (5,483) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$18,982 $8,335 $1,036 a. Includes silver sales of 4.1 million ounces ($21.99 per ounce average realized price).109Table of ContentsIndonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued)Year Ended December 31, 2009 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Gold Silver TotalRevenues, excluding adjustments$3,708 $3,708 $2,527 $73a $6,308Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below1,468 862 589 17 1,468Gold and silver credits(2,606) Treatment charges312 183 125 4 312Royalty on metals147 86 59 2 147Net cash (credits) costs(679) 1,131 773 23 1,927Depreciation and amortization275 162 110 3 275Noncash and other costs, net37 22 15 37Total (credits) costs(367) 1,315 898 26 2,239Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales53 53 5 1 59Gross profit$4,128 $2,446 $1,634 $48 $4,128 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$6,308 $1,468 $275 Treatment charges(312) N/A N/A Royalty on metals(147) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 37 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales59 N/A N/A Indonesia mining5,908 1,505 275 North America copper mines3,264 1,911 280 South America mining3,839 1,563 275 Africa mining389 315 66 Molybdenum847 660b 49 Rod & Refining3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations(4,455) (4,179) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$15,040 $7,006b $1,014 a.Includes silver sales of 4.9 million ounces ($14.94 per ounce average realized price).b.Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million.110Table of ContentsAfrica Mining Product Revenues and Production CostsYear Ended December 31, 2011 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Cobalt TotalRevenues, excluding adjustmentsa$1,059 $1,059 $253 $1,312Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below444 393 141 534Cobalt creditsb(165) Royalty on metals24 20 4 24Net cash costs303 413 145 558Depreciation, depletion and amortization140 120 20 140Noncash and other costs, net45 39 6 45Total costs488 572 171 743Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales(1) (1) 2 1Other non inventoriable costs(12) (10) (2) (12)Gross profit$558 $476 $82 $558 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$1,312 $534 $140 Royalty on metals(24) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 45 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales1 N/A N/A Other non inventoriable costsN/A 12 N/A Africa mining1,289 591 140 North America copper mines5,633 2,629 279 South America mining5,258 1,905 258 Indonesia mining5,046 1,902 215 Molybdenum1,424 1,036 60 Rod & Refining5,549 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,984 2,991 40 Corporate, other & eliminations(6,303) (6,683) 22 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$20,880 $9,898 $1,022 a.Includes adjustments for point of sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts.b.Net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs.111Table of ContentsAfrica Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs (continued)Year Ended December 31, 2010 (In millions)By Product Co Product Method Method Copper Cobalt TotalRevenues, excluding adjustmentsa$904 $904 $218 $1,122Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below366 323 115 438Cobalt creditsb(150) Royalty on metals20 16 4 20Net cash costs236 339 119 458Depreciation, depletion and amortization128 107 21 128Noncash and other costs, net30 26 4 30Total costs394 472 144 616Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 4Other non inventoriable costs(20) (17) (3) (20)Gross profit$490 $415 $75 $490 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Depreciation, Production Depletion and Revenues and Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$1,122 $438 $128 Royalty on metals(20) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 30 N/A Revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales4 N/A N/A Other non inventoriable costsN/A 20 N/A Africa mining1,106 488 128 North America copper mines4,173 2,052 273 South America mining4,991 1,678 250 Indonesia mining6,377 1,904 257 Molybdenum1,205 784 51 Rod & Refining4,470 4,442 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations(5,831) (5,483) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$18,982 $8,335 $1,036 a.Includes adjustments for point of sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts.b.Net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs.112Table of ContentsHenderson Molybdenum Mine Product Revenues and Production Costs Years Ended December 31, (In millions)2011 2010 2009a Revenues, excluding adjustments$628 $637 $347 Site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below209 193 148 Treatment charges and other33 43 30 Net cash costs242 236 178 Depreciation, depletion and amortization37 34 26 Noncash and other costs, net2 1 1 Total costs281 271 205 Gross profitb$347 $366 $142 Reconciliation to Amounts Reported Production Depreciation, and Depletion and Year Ended December 31, 2011Revenues Delivery Amortization Totals presented above$628 $209 $37 Treatment charges and other(33) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 2 N/A Henderson mine595 211 37 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsc829 825 23 Molybdenum1,424 1,036 60 North America copper mines5,633 2,629 279 South America mining5,258 1,905 258 Indonesia mining5,046 1,902 215 Africa mining1,289 591 140 Rod & Refining5,549 5,527 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,984 2,991 40 Corporate, other & eliminations(6,303) (6,683) 22 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$20,880 $9,898 $1,022 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Totals presented above$637 $193 $34 Treatment charges and other(43) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 1 N/A Henderson mine594 194 34 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsc611 590 17 Molybdenum1,205 784 51 North America copper mines4,173 2,052 273 South America mining4,991 1,678 250 Indonesia mining6,377 1,904 257 Africa mining1,106 488 128 Rod & Refining4,470 4,442 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining2,491 2,470 38 Corporate, other & eliminations(5,831) (5,483) 31 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$18,982 $8,335 $1,036 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Totals presented above$347 $148 $26 Treatment charges and other(30) N/A N/A Net noncash and other costsN/A 1 N/A Henderson mine317 149 26 Other molybdenum operations and eliminationsc530 511d 23 Molybdenum847 660 49 North America copper mines3,264 1,911 280 South America mining3,839 1,563 275 Indonesia mining5,908 1,505 275 Africa mining389 315 66 Rod & Refining3,356 3,336 8 Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining1,892 1,895 36 Corporate, other & eliminations(4,455) (4,179) 25 As reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements$15,040 $7,006d $1,014 113Table of Contentsa.Revenues and costs were adjusted to include freight and downstream conversion costs in net cash costs; gross profit was not affected by these adjustments.b.Gross profit reflects sales of Henderson products based on volumes produced at market based pricing. On a consolidated basis, the Molybdenum division includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. As a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table.c.Primarily includes amounts associated with the molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced at our North and South America copper mines.d.Includes LCM molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million.CAUTIONARY STATEMENTOur discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our future performance. Forward looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as those statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, mine production and development plans, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, reserve estimates, potential prepayments of debt, future dividend payments and potential share purchases. The words anticipates, may, can, plans, believes, estimates, expects, projects, intends, likely, will, should, to be, and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward looking statements. The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.We caution readers that forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward looking statements. Important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements include commodity prices, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, the resolution of administrative disputes in the DRC, weather and climate related risks, labor relations, environmental risks, litigation results, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011, filed with the SEC.Investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions on which our forward looking statements are based are likely to change after our forward looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which we cannot control, and production volumes and costs, some aspects of which we may or may not be able to control. Further, we may make changes to our business plans that could or will affect our results. We caution investors that we do not intend to update our forward looking statements more frequently than quarterly notwithstanding any changes in our assumptions, changes in our business plans, our actual experience, or other changes, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statements.114Table of Contents
 
