FILE:LTD/LTD-8K-20060801171113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) On July 31, 2006, Limited Brands, Inc. appointed Dennis S. Hersch and Jeffrey H. Miro to its Board of Directors. At this time Messrs. Hersch and Miro have not been named to any committees of the Board.
A copy of the press release announcing their appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1
Press Release dated July 31, 2006.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
COLUMBUS, OH (July 31, 2006)  Limited Brands (NYSE: LTD) announced the appointment of Dennis S. Hersch and Jeffrey H. Miro to its Board of Directors.
Mr. Hersch is Global Chairman of the Mergers and Acquisitions Department of JP Morgan Securities, Inc. Previously, he served as the head of the Mergers and Acquisition practice of Davis Polk & Wardwell. Mr. Hersch is Chairman of the Board of Directors of The Horticultural Society of New York and holds a B.A. in Economics from Brooklyn College and a J.D. from the N.Y.U. School of Law.
Mr. Miro is a partner in the law firm of Honigman Miller Schwartz and Cohn and is an adjunct professor of law at the University of Michigan Law School, where he teaches taxation and corporate governance. He holds an A.B. from Cornell University, a J.D. from the University of Michigan, and an LL.M. from Harvard University. Mr. Miro is also a director of M/I Homes, Inc.
"We are very excited to have Dennis and Jeffrey join our Board," said Leslie H. Wexner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Limited Brands. "I'm confident that their extensive experience and deep insight will contribute significantly to the performance of the Company."
ABOUT LIMITED BRANDS:
Limited Brands, through Victoria's Secret, Bath & Body Works, C.O. Bigelow, Express, Limited Stores, White Barn Candle Co. and Henri Bendel, presently operates 3,549 specialty stores. Victoria's Secret products are also available through the catalogue and
www.VictoriasSecret.com
. Bath & Body Works products are also available through the catalogue and .
www.BathandBodyWorks.com


