FILE:LTD/LTD-8K-20070731120532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
VICE CHAIRMAN AND COO RESIGNS FROM LIMITED BRANDS, INC.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, July 30, 2007  Limited Brands, Inc. (NYSE: LTD) today announced that Len Schlesinger, vice chairman and chief operating officer, has made the decision to resign from the company.
 
We thank Len for the countless ways he has made a difference at Limited Brands.  His contributions to our business reach far beyond his vision and business results.  Whatever he does next, he will break new ground and elevate those around him, said Leslie H. Wexner, chairman and chief executive officer.
 
Im very proud of everything we accomplished, said Schlesinger.  We did terrific work, and I have the utmost confidence that the strategy weve put into place will continue to be successful and will drive growth for the enterprise.  I look forward to working with the Limited Brands team on a smooth transition.
 
Going forward, Schlesingers responsibilities will be assumed by Wexner and Martyn Redgrave, executive vice president and chief administrative officer.
 
Schlesinger joined Limited Brands in 1999 as executive vice president of organization, leadership and human resources.
 
ABOUT LIMITED BRANDS:
Limited Brands, through Victoria's Secret, Bath and Body Works, C.O. Bigelow, La Senza, White Barn Candle Co. and Henri Bendel, presently operates 3,140 specialty stores.  The company's products are also available online at , and .
www.VictoriasSecret.com
www.BathandBodyWorks.com
www.LaSenza.com
 
 
For further information, please contact:
Tammy Roberts Myers
Director, External Communications
Limited Brands, Inc.
614-415-7072
extcomm@limitedbrands.com
 
 


