FILE:LTD/LTD-8K-20091027163058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure", and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On October 26, 2009, the Company issued a press release containing updated guidance with respect to third quarter 2009 earnings, fiscal year 2009 free cash flow and October 2009 comparable store sales.
This report made by the Company contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although the Company believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are included within the press release. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
Press Release dated October 26, 2009 updating guidance with respect to third quarter 2009 earnings, fiscal year 2009 free cash flow and October 2009 comparable store sales.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Columbus, Ohio, Oct. 26, 2009  Limited Brands, Inc. (NYSE: LTD) today raised its outlook for third quarter earnings and 2009 free cash flow, and updated its guidance for October comparable store sales. The company is making this updated information available in advance of its previously announced Investor Update Meeting on Oct. 27.
The company now expects third quarter earnings per share between $0.00 and a loss of $0.04, versus to its previous estimate of a loss of $0.07 to $0.12. Free cash flow for the full year 2009, defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, is expected to be between $500 and $600 million, versus its previous estimate of $350 to $450 million. October comparable store sales are expected to be in the negative low-to-mid single digits, versus its previous estimate of roughly flat. The company will provide fourth quarter earnings guidance on its third quarter earnings call on Nov. 19.
As announced last week, the Investor Update Meeting will be video webcast live on from noon to 4 p.m. ET on Oct. 27, and accessible via phone (listen only) by dialing 1-866-583-6618 (international callers dial 1-973-200-3978). An archive of the webcast will be available on as soon as possible following the live event.
www.LimitedBrands.com
www.LimitedBrands.com
ABOUT LIMITED BRANDS:
Limited Brands, through Victoria's Secret, Pink, Bath & Body Works, C.O. Bigelow, La Senza, White Barn Candle Co. and Henri Bendel, presently operates 3,015 specialty stores. The company's products are also available online at , , and .
www.VictoriasSecret.com
www.BathandBodyWorks.com
www.HenriBendel.com
www.LaSenza.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
We caution that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this press release or investor event webcast involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential" and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Risks associated with the following factors, among others, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect our financial performance and actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this press release or the investor event webcast:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are not under any obligation and do not intend to make publicly available any update or other revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this press release or investor event webcast to reflect circumstances existing after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of future events even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Additional information regarding these and other factors can be found in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
For further information, please contact:
 


