FILE:LTD/LTD-8K-20090615070118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure", and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
In connection with the private offering of the Notes discussed in Item 8.01 below, Limited Brands, Inc. (the "Registrant") delivered a slideshow presentation to prospective investors. An excerpt of the investor slide presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
On June 15, 2009, the Registrant announced that it has commenced a private offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2019 (the "Notes"). The Notes will be sold to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. A copy of the Press Release pursuant to which such announcement was made is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Neither this Current Report nor the information contained in this Current Report shall constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation.
 
(d) EXHIBITS
99.1    Excerpt of Investor Slide Presentation
99.2    Press Release
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


Exhibit 99.2
Columbus, Ohio, June 15, 2009  Limited Brands, Inc. (NYSE: LTD) announced today that it is seeking to raise approximately $500 million of gross proceeds through an institutional private placement of senior notes due 2019. The notes will be guaranteed by certain of the company's subsidiaries. The company intends to use the proceeds of this offering, after the payment of fees and expenses, to repurchase or repay existing debt and for general corporate purposes.
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of the company's senior notes.
The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S. Unless so registered, Limited Brands' senior notes may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding Limited Brands' ability to complete this private placement and its application of net proceeds. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those results indicated in the forward-looking statements include uncertainties relating to market conditions for corporate debt securities generally and for the securities of retail companies and for Limited Brands in particular.
 
 
 
 
 


