FILE:LTD/LTD-8K-20100318165905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
 
On March 15, 2010, Limited Brands, Inc. ( or the ) announced that its Board of Directors has declared a special dividend of $1 per share and has authorized a $200 million share repurchase program. The special dividend will be paid on April 19, 2010 to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 5, 2010. Share repurchases will be made at the times, in the amounts and in the manner that the Company believes appropriate. The newly authorized $200 million repurchase program includes $31 million remaining under the Company's previous $250 million repurchase program.
Limited Brands
Company
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be sed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
ign
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Limited Brands Announces $1 Per Share Special Dividend and $200 Million Share Repurchase Program
COLUMBUS, Ohio, March 15, 2010 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- As part of its ongoing commitment to return value to shareholders, Limited Brands (NYSE: LTD) announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a special dividend of $1 per share and has authorized a $200 million share repurchase program.
(Logo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20020520/CLM001LOGO )
The special dividend will be paid on April 19, 2010 to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 5, 2010. Share repurchases will be made at the times, in the amounts and in the manner that the Company believes appropriate. The newly authorized $200 million repurchase program includes $31 million remaining under the Company's previous $250 million repurchase program. Over the past 10 years, Limited Brands has returned nearly $10 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
ABOUT LIMITED BRANDS:
Limited Brands, through Victoria's Secret, Pink, Bath & Body Works, C.O. Bigelow, La Senza, White Barn Candle Co. and Henri Bendel, presently operates 2,970 specialty stores. The company's products are also available online at www.VictoriasSecret.com, , and .
www.BathandBodyWorks.com
www.HenriBendel.com
www.LaSenza.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
We caution that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this press release involve risks and uncertainties (including our ability to repurchase shares on terms and in circumstances we believe to be appropriate) and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential" and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Risks associated with the following factors, among others, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect our financial performance and actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this press release:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
political instability;
  
 
duties, taxes, other charges on imports;
  
 
legal and regulatory matters;
  
 
volatility in currency and exchange rates;
  
 
local business practices and political issues;
  
 
potential delays or disruptions in shipping and related pricing impacts; and
  
 
the disruption of imports by labor disputes;
We are not under any obligation and do not intend to make publicly available any update or other revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this press release to reflect circumstances existing after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of future events even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Additional information regarding these and other factors can be found in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
SOURCE Limited Brands
 


