FILE:LTD/LTD-8K-20100108160657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
and
Item 7.01.    Regulation FD Disclosure.
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure", and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On January 7, 2010, Limited Brands, Inc. issued a press release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the five weeks and forty-eight weeks ended January 2, 2010. In addition, the press release contains updated guidance with respect to fourth quarter 2009 earnings. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
This report made by the Company contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although the Company believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are included within the press release. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Columbus, Ohio, Jan. 7, 2010  Limited Brands, Inc. (NYSE: LTD) reported a comparable store sales decrease of 2 percent for the five weeks ended Jan. 2, 2010, compared to the five weeks ended Jan. 3, 2009. The company reported net sales of $1.660 billion for the five weeks ended Jan. 2, 2010, compared to net sales of $1.644 billion last year.
The company reported a comparable store sales decrease of 5 percent for the 48 weeks ended Jan. 2, 2010, compared to the 48 weeks ended Jan. 3, 2009. The company reported net sales of $8.010 billion for the 48 weeks ended Jan. 2, 2010, compared to sales of $8.451 billion last year.
Sales and merchandise margin rates for the fourth quarter to date are above the company's initial expectations. As a result, the company is raising its fourth quarter 2009 earnings guidance to $0.92 to $0.97 per share, versus its previous guidance of $0.71 to $0.86 per share.
Les Wexner, chairman and chief executive officer, said "We are very pleased with our holiday performance. We managed inventory and expenses conservatively and focused on execution and speed to maximize sales and margin. Going forward, we plan to continue our conservative management of the business and increase our emphasis on speed and agility."
To hear further commentary on Limited Brands' prerecorded December sales message, call 1-866-639-7583 (1-866-NEWS-LTD), or log onto www.Limitedbrands.com for an audio replay.
ABOUT LIMITED BRANDS:
Limited Brands, through Victoria's Secret, Pink, Bath & Body Works, C.O. Bigelow, La Senza, White Barn Candle Co. and Henri Bendel, presently operates 3,025 specialty stores. The company's products are also available online at , , and .
www.VictoriasSecret.com
www.BathandBodyWorks.com
www.HenriBendel.com
www.LaSenza.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
We caution that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this press release or the December sales call involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential" and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Risks associated with the following factors, among others, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect our financial performance and actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this press release or the December sales call:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are not under any obligation and do not intend to make publicly available any update or other revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this press release or the December sales call to reflect circumstances existing after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of future events even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Additional information regarding these and other factors can be found in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
For further information, please contact:
 
Comparable Store Sales Increase (Decrease):
 
Total Stores:
 


