FILE:LTD/LTD-8K-20110325162433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 25, 2011, Limited Brands, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the closing of its public offering (the "Senior Notes Offering") of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of its 6.625% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "Senior Notes").
The Company intends to use proceeds from the Senior Notes Offering, after the payment of fees and expenses, to repurchase approximately $500 million of the Company's common stock pursuant to a previously announced new share repurchase program and for general corporate purposes.
A copy of the press releases announcing the closing of the Senior Notes Offering is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
COLUMBUS, Ohio, March 25, 2011 Limited Brands, Inc. (NYSE: LTD) ("Limited Brands") announced today the closing of its previously announced offering of $1 billion 6.625% senior notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes"). The company intends to use the proceeds of the Notes offering, after the payment of fees and expenses, to repurchase $500 million of the company's shares pursuant to a previously announced new share repurchase program and for general corporate purposes.
A registration statement relating to the offering of the 2021 Notes has been filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and is effective. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell nor an offer to buy any securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. The offering of the 2021 Notes may be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus.
For additional information regarding the terms of the offering of the 2021 Notes, please contact Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Prospectus Department, 100 West 33rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10001, toll-free at 1-800-294-1322, or J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, 270 Park Avenue, New York 10017, collect at 1-212-834-4533, or Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 390 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013, collect at 1-212-723-6020.
ABOUT LIMITED BRANDS:
Limited Brands, through Victoria's Secret, Pink, Bath & Body Works, La Senza, C.O. Bigelow, White Barn Candle Co. and Henri Bendel, is an international company. The company operates 2,640 specialty stores in the United States and its brands are sold in more than 800 company-operated and franchised additional locations world-wide. The company's products are also available online at , , and .
www.VictoriasSecret.com
www.BathandBodyWorks.com
www.HenriBendel.com
www.LaSenza.com
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Limited Brands, Inc. cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this press release, incorporated by reference into this press release or made by our company or our management involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential" and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Risks associated with the following factors, among others, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect our financial performance and actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this press release, incorporated by reference into this press release or otherwise made by our company or our management:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are not under any obligation and do not intend to make publicly available any update or other revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this press release or incorporated by reference into this press release to reflect circumstances existing after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of future events even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Additional information regarding these and other factors can be found under the heading "Item 1A. Risk Factors." in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.


