FILE:LTD/LTD-8K-20120925162109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(d)  On September 20, 2012, Dr. E. Gordon Gee and Michael G. Morris were each appointed to the Board of Directors of Limited Brands, Inc. (the Company).  With the appointment of Dr. Gee and Mr. Morris, the Companys Board now consists of twelve directors.
Dr. Gee and Mr. Morris have not been named to any committees of the Board at this time.  The Board has determined that Mr. Morris is independent in accordance with the applicable New York Stock Exchange standards and the Companys corporate governance guidelines.
Dr. Gee and Mr. Morris will each receive compensation as a director in accordance with the Companys director compensation practices described in the Companys Annual Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 12, 2012.
A copy of the press release announcing Dr. Gees and Mr. Morris appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)     Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Michael G. Morris and Dr. E. Gordon Gee Appointed to the Limited Brands, Inc. Board of Directors
COLUMBUS, Ohio, Sept. 20, 2012 -- Today Limited Brands (NYSE: LTD) announced the appointments of Michael G. Morris and Dr. E. Gordon Gee to its Board of Directors.
Mr. Morris is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of American Electric Power Co., Inc., one of the nation's largest generators of electricity. From January 2004 until his retirement in November 2011, Mr. Morris was also the president and chief executive officer of American Electric Power. In addition, Mr. Morris currently serves as a director of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and Alcoa Inc. He holds a B.A. and master's degree from Eastern Michigan University and a J.D. from the Detroit College of Law.
Dr. Gee is president of The Ohio State University, a world-class public research institution and one of the nation's most distinguished land-grant universities. Prior to his service at Ohio State, he led Vanderbilt University, Brown University, The Ohio State University (1990-97), the University of Colorado, and West Virginia University. Active in a number of national professional and service organizations, he also serves on the boards for Bob Evans Inc., the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, Inc. and the National 4-H Council. He graduated from the University of Utah with an honors degree in history and earned his J.D. and Ed.D degrees from Columbia University.
"I am excited to welcome Mike and Gordon to our Board," said Leslie H. Wexner, chairman and chief executive officer of Limited Brands. "I'm confident that their substantial experience and thinking will challenge us to continue to get better ... something we're focused on every day. We're truly fortunate that they are on our team."
ABOUT LIMITED BRANDS:
Limited Brands, through Victoria's Secret, Pink, Bath & Body Works, La Senza and Henri Bendel, is an international company. The company operates 2,622 specialty stores in the United States and its brands are sold in more than 700 company -operated and franchised additional locations world-wide. The company's products are also available online at
www.VictoriasSecret.com
,
www.BathandBodyWorks.com
,
www.HenriBendel.com
and
www.LaSenza.com
.
Limited Brands b-roll footage of stores is available through our
online newsroom
.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
Limited Brands, Inc. cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this press release or the August sales call involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential" and any similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Risks associated with the following factors, among others, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect our financial performance and actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this press release or the August sales call:
 
 
 
 
We are not under any obligation and do not intend to make publicly available any update or other revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this press release or the August sales call to reflect circumstances existing after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of future events even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Additional information regarding these and other factors can be found in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
SOURCE Limited Brands
Investor Relations, Amie Preston, +1-614-415-6704, apreston@limitedbrands.com; Media Relations, Tammy Roberts Myers, +1-614-415-7072, extcomm@limitedbrands.com
2
 
 


